ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to the external action of the State (No 3399, Annexes 1 and 2 ; No 3400, Volume II; No 3403, Volumes I and II). Mr Vincent Ledoux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u3	Our diplomats are everywhere the ambassadors and watchdogs of France's values. As such, they are targets, such as the stabbing attack at the entrance to the Consulate General of France in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, reminded us this morning. We keep in our minds and hearts the person who was the victim of this heinous attack. Since the beginning of the legislature, with every review of the appropriations of the "External Action of the State" mission, we have measured, Minister, your determination to give our diplomatic and consular services the means to meet the challenges. This will be paid for in the long term, as the Mission's appropriations will increase by €66 million in 2021, or 2.3%. This is an unprecedented fact, because it is not a perimeter measure: you are releasing new means in support of diplomatic and consular action. This support is deserved – everyone was able to see how early in the spring, at the peak of the pandemic, during which the mobilization, strength and adaptability of our services attested to the good dimensionation of our network of 160 embassies and 89 consulates general. This effectiveness has distinguished France from many of its counterparts. The personnel of the Quai d'Orsay demonstrated their full mobilization by facilitating the return of more than 370,000 French people from abroad, including nearly 12,500 on flights chartered directly by the ministry's crisis and support centre, even facilitating their pre-routing to airports under sometimes staggering conditions, from the islands of the Philippines to the borders of the Andes. Since then, the Ministry's staff have continued to provide ongoing support to our compatriots by providing them with health support – doubled if necessary with social support – or by deploying the important plan for French education abroad that we adopted in the third amending finance law – LFR – for 2020. Similarly, our diplomats in central government and international organizations have been working tirelessly for years to defend France's interests while supporting multilateralism. This mission is more essential than ever, as the current pandemic reveals the brutalization of the world – some who want to make it a new ferment of international divisions, when it clearly calls for a concerted response. All these observations require, more than ever, that our diplomatic and consular tool be given the means to act. The budget for 2021 provides these resources. That is why the Finance Committee has adopted the appropriations without making any changes: thanks to your investment which has never been denied since 2017, you have achieved a good balance. While the Quai d'Orsay has decreased its workforce by 10% since 2007, this year it benefits from a stable job pattern. In this way, it supports all the efficiency gains allowed by the ministerial steering of the State's networks abroad, while at the same time being exempt from eliminating the eighty-five jobs provided for under the Public Action 2022 programme, which protects the network from disruption. In addition, the telephone and digital consular contact centre, located in Nantes, will relieve consulates by reserving the only requests requiring field follow-up and local expertise. It is also known that the heavy maintenance of real estate abroad was structurally underfunded by the random nature of the proceeds of real estate divestitures. The budget for 2021 will provide an additional €24 million. This 139% increase will fund construction sites that do not have any prestigious operations, even if they sometimes involve prestigious sites. The Ministry can also make a beneficial reinvestment in the financing of international organisations, with €17 million in voluntary contributions in the areas of the non-proliferation of nuclear and chemical weapons, and in dedicated funds from the United Nations Department of Peace Operations. It will be necessary to extend this effort in the long term, in order to finance the most qualified actors to intervene in the grey zone of the crisis--in particular, I am thinking of our partnership with the International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, which strengthens the resilience of violent societies. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Finally, with regard to cultural diplomacy and influence, we consolidate support for the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger – AEFE – by confirming the increase made last year: despite the declines in numbers in the countries most affected by the crisis, new certifications, including 12 new schools, added 5000 students to the network. Moreover, if the crisis reaches the own resources of French institutes and French alliances, the embassies have been able to redeploy €9 million to support the most fragile cash markets. For 2021, the allocations are maintained and the network receives an additional €3 million to finance a digital strategy that will increase the availability of distance learning and online cultural content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u4	Please conclude, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u5	Finally, the number of foreign students welcomed to France, which fell by 30% despite the increase in the number of applications on the "Studies in France" platform at the beginning of the year, constitutes an alert. In order to ensure that the health crisis does not sacrifice generations of foreign students, who are the future ambassadors of France in their country and their country in France, this context invites us to speed up and target the deployment of projects of new French-foreign universities, particularly on Franco-African campuses, in a double logic of strengthening the capacities of African institutions and of international outreach of French institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ledoux.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u7	Forgive me, Madam President, but it's not always easy to speak with a mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u8	[[Smile]] We should get another 30 seconds because of the mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u9	You're still in the negotiation, Mr. Herbillon... Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u10	In the period we are living, I first have a deep thought for the victims of the barbaric terrorist act that ended the lives of three innocent people this morning in Nice. Our collective affliction is no longer enough. I wholeheartedly hope that the Government will take all necessary measures to ensure the security of our citizens throughout the national territory. Unfortunately, it is in this context, together with the announcements of reconfinition, that we must comment on and evaluate the draft budget for 2021. Although this may seem derisory in view of the current situation, we must continue our parliamentary work, because it is also the survival of an entire sector of the economy and millions of jobs that are at stake. Tourism is without context the sector most affected economically by the health crisis we are experiencing, and the new restrictive measures make us fear the worst for businesses in this sector and the jobs associated with it. The fall in tourism in the first half of 2020 was unprecedented: while 94 million tourists were expected in 2020, they were finally only 36 million. Tourism revenues were estimated at €61 billion; In the end, they reached only 24 billion. The overall loss for the sector in 2020 was estimated at 40% of turnover and 64% of profitability of tourism companies. In view of the measures announced by the President of the Republic, the losses should be even greater. At least the summer season will have been better than hoped, thanks to the French and local European tourists. For example, 94% of French departures remained in France, mostly on the coast, in the mountains and in the company. For three years now, I have been insisting on the tremendous potential of domestic tourism, which is insufficiently taken into account in tourism policy, the latter being essentially oriented towards international tourism. I hope that we will learn from it collectively in the future. However, good summer attendance did not allow tourism companies to compensate for their losses and unfortunately did not benefit at all from the regions most dependent on foreign customers, such as Île-de-France. After an autumn in which attendance has continued to deteriorate, a deep and major concern now passes through the men, women and territories who live in winter tourism. What will be the future of mountain tourism players, resorts, hundreds of thousands of associated seasonal jobs and companies that have already lost 30% of their turnover due to the early end of the last winter season? I know that these issues are not entirely within your sphere of competence, Mr Minister, but, as Special Rapporteur on tourism, I must address these issues of topicality and concern for our businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u11	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u12	The latter, weakened, will only find it difficult to recover from a new season at a standstill or slow down. The question is: is the 2021 finance bill that we are considering providing for emergency economic accompanying measures to ensure a second rescue of tourism businesses? Unfortunately, the answer is no – in any case, not as it is. While the Government has been responsive to its corporate support policy by taking emergency measures through the three amending finance bills – measures that I have voted for and welcome – I am concerned that these actions are now insufficient to save companies that already have a knee on their knees. I regret that these provisions are not included in the finance bill, which would have allowed us to comment on them and amend them. I hope that amendments can be adopted during the examination of the appropriations for the "Economy" mission. Can you, Minister, provide us with information on the budget that will be devoted in 2021 to measures to support tourism businesses and how they will be accompanied next year? What about travel agencies, whose turnover has been virtually zero for months and who will not be able to contract EMPs indefinitely – government-guaranteed loans? What about the holiday centres which, throughout France, have lost 70% of their activity and many of which are no longer able to pay their rent? Nevertheless, I will say a word from the budget of the State operator dedicated to tourism, Atout France. Its mission, which is theoretically to promote international tourism, has been reoriented towards the promotion of domestic tourism in the context of the health crisis, which was a good decision. In the context of the third amending finance bill, PLFR 3, we voted for 5 million euros in additional appropriations to strengthen the promotion policy pursued by Atout France alongside the regions in 2020 – I thank you for following my recommendation in this direction. However, only EUR 1.2 million has actually been consumed by Atout France, which is stifling the remaining appropriations, in anticipation of revenue losses next year. I regret that, because that was not the objective of this crisis budget, which we would have liked to have consumed in its entirety. I also deplore the reduction of the State's allocation to Atout France of EUR 2.2 million. I stress that, for the operator, this decrease will be added in 2021 to the loss of almost half of his private partnership revenues, i.e. around €20 million, and the lack of revenue from the issuance of visas. We will have to revise this budget according to tourism activity. In the absence of more precise measures, I shall therefore abstain, on a personal basis, from the appropriations allocated to tourism, even if the Committee on Finance has adopted them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u13	Mr Vincent Rolland, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u14	Black, black, black: 2020 will have been a black year for tourism, after several already difficult years. As we expect 94 million international visitors and 60 billion euros of revenue from international tourism, these visitors will eventually be only 36 million and they will create 24 billion euros of revenue. Overall tourism revenue losses – domestic and international – could reach 30% to 35% in 2020, i.e. €50 to €60 billion. For the 313000 enterprises and the approximately 2 million direct and indirect jobs concerned, the situation is very difficult. While the outlook has been temporarily clarified this summer, in particular thanks to the rise of domestic tourism, the evolution of the health context is of particular concern to all professionals as they approach the winter season and especially the Christmas season. It is true that the Government has taken concrete measures at the heart of the crisis, through the implementation of partial unemployment, the reduction of burdens and the recovery plan for tourism agreed in May 2020. I would also like to welcome the involvement of the Secretary of State for Tourism, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, on these issues. However, the expectations of professionals in the sector regarding the extension of these arrangements and the definition of new accompanying arrangements are very strong. Several announcements were made on 12 October at the last Interministerial Committee on Tourism, in particular with regard to the strengthening of the solidarity fund or the full coverage of partial unemployment benefits until 31 December 2020. However, we must go further: we cannot leave tourism professionals in the dramatic situation that is theirs. In particular, the current context requires the prolongation of partial unemployment measures far beyond 31 December, as everyone knows that by that date the situation will be far from normal. In particular, the application of the partial unemployment scheme to new seasonal contracts should be considered, as it would encourage certain hirings. On the other hand, the extension of the burden-free arrangements also seems essential for companies whose cash flow is very weak and will remain so on a long-term basis. Finally, consideration should be given to extending the seasonal EMP to include more companies with seasonal activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u15	The budget for 2021 presented by the Government seems to me far from meeting the challenges. Once again, Atout France's public service subsidy decreases by €2.2 million. The reduction is, of course, offset by intervention appropriations of an equivalent amount, but the latter are intended only to finance participation in one-off events and will therefore not be renewed in the future. I regret, however, like Émilie Bonnivard, that Atout France did not consume all the appropriations, amounting to EUR 5 million, which had been allocated to it by the third amending finance law, in order to ensure, in particular, the promotion of tourism within the domestic market. Beyond the budgetary dimension alone, it seems to me necessary to envisage this crisis, however difficult it may be, as a stepping stone towards the construction of tomorrow's tourism, able to satisfy the wishes of a clientele that will certainly have changed. This sustainable tourism responds to a growing demand, which, however, still struggles to materialize today. The project is vast, but the many opportunities and the professionals will, I have no doubt, be at the rendezvous. The public authorities will also have to be. The urgency of the moment remains the rescue of our tourist companies, very weakened by the health crisis. It is necessary to go further, and quickly, by lowering VAT on CHRs, cafes, hotels and restaurants, and by extending the tourist plan to all the activities of the shops located in the classified tourist resorts. Professionals rely on you as you can count on our commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u17	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u18	The Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs was put to the test by the health crisis. Our network abroad has been hit all over its surface by an epidemic whose first feature has been to be global. Ninety per cent of the staff in the central government have switched to telework; In other countries, almost all of the posts worked in degraded mode. In this difficult context, the department's staff have demonstrated exceptional mobilization to manage an unprecedented crisis, both in scope and duration. The crisis and support centre has helped hundreds of thousands of French people stranded abroad to return to our country. Diplomats have reinvigorated multilateralism, the only effective way to deal with a crisis that far exceeds States. Consular officers have allocated – and continue to do so – the €100 million available to French communities abroad for social assistance and school support. To all who saw him as a ministry whose missions have only a distant connection with their daily lives, the Quai d'Orsay demonstrated that he was a ministry of public service, at the service of French interests and of our fellow citizens. Having interviewed diplomats in office during the crisis, I can assure you, Minister, that they were driven by the spirit of the public service and the French team. Through you, I wish to thank them. The budget for 2021 today draws lessons from the crisis. This is the most striking fact: no staff reductions are planned, for the first time in twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u19	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u20	After the crisis we experienced, it would not have been appropriate to continue the downsizing. It is to be hoped that this will be remembered next year and beyond, bearing in mind that the Department has already achieved 80% of the Public Action 2022 objectives. The budget for Program 151 remains stable. As the crisis really settles, we will have to remain vigilant towards those who, among our compatriots abroad, are the most fragile. The capacity of programme 105 will be strengthened in terms of real estate, security and digital technology. These are priority projects for the ministry. In particular, the budget will allow us to begin the digital transformation of the ministry, a project that I want to focus on, as the crisis has shown how much it was necessary. How many consuls general and ambassadors were forced, in the emergency of the crisis, to use unsecured tools, from WhatsApp to Google Docs and Zoom? How many agents were able to switch to telework only at the cost of a very laborious effort? The crisis has highlighted the inadequacy of the ministry's digital means. However, recent progress has been made. Important dematerialisation projects have thus been launched in the consular field, such as Internet voting or the France Visas device. These projects, however, take time, as the health crisis has also led to the postponement of their deadline. The ministry is struggling with rigidities that have so far hindered the digital transition. Let us not deny the importance of the threat to the security of the information systems at the Quai d'Orsay. But let us also not deny that computer security, as it has been applied to date, has rigidized digital usage to the detriment of agents and users. History shows this: the public sector only evolves strongly as a result of crises. Let us seize the opportunity that we are currently going through for the ministry to finally make its digital transformation. While a digital plan must be developed by the end of the year, implementation difficulties should not be underestimated. To succeed, it will be necessary to overcome the reluctance that exists within the department itself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] On the other hand, a single budget will not be sufficient to complete the digital transformation of the Pier. Let us welcome the 22 % increase in digital funding in 2021, an investment effort that will have to continue on a multiannual basis. But it is by providing high-level leadership and long-term resources that the ministry will have the best chance of succeeding in its digital revolution. This success depends in part on our ability to carry out diplomatic and consular action commensurate with our ambitions for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u21	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u22	For the third year in a row, credits for cultural diplomacy and influence are increasing. This increase is all the more remarkable in view of the fact that, by analysing it in detail, it relates much more to intervention appropriations and to field operators than to the central administration. Although this does not concern the PLF for 2021, I once again welcome, Minister, the support plan for these networks developed in the context of the Covid-19 crisis and the work we have done with your services in committee. We are now monitoring the application until the last kilometer. As previous speakers have pointed out, this PLF finally marks the end of the planing cycle and the recognition that this small state budget can no longer be reduced in the same proportion as the others without its very essence being reached. Mr Minister, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs feel that we have always supported you on this subject and we welcome – on every level, I believe – your personal commitment to this embellishment, as visible in cultural diplomacy and influence as in other programmes of the State's external action. We have therefore advanced for three years, despite the crises, the incomprehensions and the fury of the world. Yes, minister, the need to pilot these tools, which I deplored three years ago, is clearly being taken into consideration by your services. Yes, I saw, in Jerusalem two years ago, in Iraq and Kurdistan last year and in Egypt this year, a coherent cultural diplomacy, led by the agents in office and by the COCACs, the advisers of cooperation and cultural action, in the spirit of the speech of the President of the Republic to the ambassadors in August 2019. You must be generalists, conductors. Use all our specialists according to strategies adapted to different countries. Plans dedicated to the school or the Francophonie flourish. They are discussed in each country with the various interested parties, the elected representatives of the French abroad and the non-French. It will take a long time before this becomes the rule everywhere, I know, but it is in the direction of a true global diplomacy of the twenty-first century. Moreover, why continue to distinguish between influential diplomacy and traditional diplomacy, while they interact constantly? But these advances must also reach our operators today. Some have succeeded, like Expertise France, which I often quote, and which, in six years, has brought together all the competences previously scattered not only to the four corners of the state budget but also to the local authorities and associations, until it has become a real tool for France's presence in the world thanks to its expertise. Others have to do this: the cultural network – we have often talked about it – as well as the French teaching network abroad, on which I would like to dwell for a few moments. The first work of the AEFE, launched in 1990, was to harmonise totally heterogeneous situations. In 20 years, it has taken up the challenge of creating a network, thanks to the public service subsidy, by harmonising the different statutes, by grouping registered establishments into a set where partnership and exchanges work. However, today it is experiencing a structural imbalance between the small number of establishments it directly manages and the vast majority of independent establishments. In addition, it is now responsible for implementing the President of the Republic's goal of doubling the number of students in the network by 2030. De facto, she now has three very distinct, very clear, but no longer structuring her work. The first is to expand the workforce, the second is to guarantee the excellence of the education provided in the 522 institutions – I said 522 – in particular by providing them with managers and teachers who hold national education. The latter are extremely minority in the network, with between 5000 and 6,000 for a total of about 35,000, but they are the leaven and they are the central tool for transmitting the values of our model not only to the students but also to all the educational communities and to the parents of the students of the network. His third job is, for historical or diplomatic reasons, to directly manage a small number of these establishments. It is around these three professions that the AEFE needs to reorganise today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group, as well as on the panel of committees]] I have attached to my report a document setting out my views on the future of the Agency and on its reorganization, which was initiated even before the current crisis, thanks to the report by my colleague Samantha Cazebonne. It is essential that this reform be pursued, since the health crisis is more a reason to carry it through than a false excuse to abandon it. The AEFE must continue its moulting and entrust its three trades to three pillars of its organizational chart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u23	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u24	The budget of the "External Action of the State" mission is finally on the increase. It's about time. This ministry has been the victim of blind austerity for twenty years, which has led to the loss of considerable material resources and nearly half of its staff. Few ministries have been such good students of Bercy, which is perfectly regrettable! As the 13500 officers at the Quai d'Orsay are under stress, the 90 recruits are obviously positive. But they do not change the concerns we expressed last year about a "bone-in" administration, to take up a phrase that you yourself used, minister. These tensions will not disappear overnight. If the department takes these internal issues seriously, these recruitments should only be the first phase of departmental reorganization. But the Communist deputies doubt it. Trade union alerts within the wharf are numerous and disturbing. The articles in the press – in Le Monde diplomatique last month, in Le Monde this week – describe an overheated institution, undermined by tensions related to the lack of staff as well as the futile hyperactivity of the President of the Republic. "Our diplomacy is outpaced by the President's ambitions, we reach the end of a model," says an ambassador quoted in a World article published no later than Monday. Given the loyalty of the diplomatic corps, such a declaration demonstrates the seriousness of the situation. The zapping diplomacy led by the Head of State – everywhere in the speech but nowhere in the act – is therefore not manageable. On the one hand, it makes strong calls for respect for the environment in the UN rostrum, and on the other hand, it refuses to move forward at national level. He tried to occupy an independent position between the United States and Russia before regaining the Atlanticist inclination of his predecessors. He wants to be the first in Lebanon, to solve the Libyan crisis, to take over the Syrian conflict and to be the boss of the European Union. In the end, nothing comes out of it. The ambitions of the Head of State must be given lasting means. Otherwise, it's just wind. The wharf cannot follow all the open sites on an Elysian lead, at least with such weak means, which have continuously decreased until 2017. It is not by resorting to vacations and other casual contracts that the workforce will be stabilized, denouncing the unions, but by hiring, as planned this year, trained agents and for the long term. But the fear that I expressed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and which justifies the Communist Group abstaining on this budget is that this year will only be a pause in the slow agony of your ministry. We must not be content with developments on a single budget: we need a multi-annual plan, perhaps a Free White of Diplomacy, with upward objectives, credits and hirings in order to reshape the image of our diplomatic network, one of the most important in the world, as we all know. The voice of France is nothing without those who wear it. It is therefore essential to preserve and strengthen them. Ultraliberal globalization is undergoing a real upheaval since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19 and profound changes at the international level are taking place at this very moment. Economic and cultural diplomacy, and the French presence in multilateral forums, must therefore be strengthened if our country is to live up to what is happening today. Let the voice of France not weaken because in Bercy, it was felt that all this was too expensive. This analysis applies exactly to consular networks and to the management of French abroad. The extraordinary efforts of the Quai d'Orsay to repatriate more than 200,000 French nationals from March to June have demonstrated how incredibly powerful this tool was when it was motivated, and the minister recently joined us in congratulating the staff. But this work has exhausted the troops, just as the nursing staff has been through the first wave. Let us preserve these forces for the time to come, as these might be as violent as the previous ones, as the present situation shows. The Nice bombing was mentioned, but I also want to have a thought about the security guard at the Consulate General of France in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, who was the victim of a stabbing attack this morning; He, all those who work with him and the officers of the department on the spot. [[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] The Communist MEPs call for the ministry to make proposals to strengthen the human and financial resources devolved to the Quai over several years, the only way for us to have confidence in a genuine revival of French diplomacy. As long as we have no more details on this, we will not be able to give a blank meeting to the Government in connection with this mission. The GDR Group will therefore abstain, which for him is an important effort on this budget, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u25	It almost deserved applause from us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u26	[[Smile]] You should have!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u27	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u28	Allow me to share with you the vision of the Republic group in motion on the appropriations of the mission "External action of the State": they embody the commitment made by the President of the Republic and the Government, in the global and national context that we all know. At the height of the first phase of the health crisis, the pragmatism, resilience and availability of our diplomatic network were remarkable. At a time when we are voting on the appropriations allocated, I should like here before the national representative to pay tribute to the dedication of his staff and to ask you, Minister, to convey our profound gratitude to them. While our external grips are the object of barbaric attacks, as again this morning in Jeddah, national representation has a duty to convey to them its unwavering support and commitment to their security. Also, finding that the "External Action of the State" mission puts an end to the reduction of posts, which has been a rule for years, is excellent news. This mission, declined through programmes 105 "Action de la France en Europe et dans le monde", 151 "French abroad and consular affairs" and 185 "Diplomatie culturelle et d'influence", presents a realistic budget, adapted to the unique year we go through. Program 105 takes into account the lessons of the covid-19 crisis in terms of the department's staffing and resources, as I have just mentioned. This programme will increase by 4 per cent. Digital technology is in the spotlight because, like many other areas, the pandemic has highlighted the obsolescence or even vicissitudes of an extremely protected computer system – perhaps too – preventing the development of telework while using unsecured means of exchange. By the way, I note that the digitalization of the ministry allows French residents abroad, whose role is fundamental to the influence of our country, to vote by electronic means... May this inspire the legislators we are! Program 151 contributes to the confidence, thus reaffirmed, in our diplomatic and consular network. Since the end of January, he has shown his central role in allowing for a constant dialogue with his interlocutors thanks to unwavering pugnacity. This universality of the network has demonstrated in adversity that we can rely on it. We have also learned lessons from the crisis, notably through the additional EUR 100 million voted in the Financial Amendment Act of July 2020 for school scholarships and social assistance. Since these envelopes have been used little, the remaining amount will refer to next year's budget and, from now on, parents' income will be taken into account in year N and no longer N minus 1 for the award of school scholarships. This will enable us to assess situations in real terms. Like the two previous programmes, the 185 programme enshrines France's ambition in terms of cultural diplomacy and influence. The trajectory for 2021-2030 of French teaching abroad is maintained, this teaching which promotes throughout the world the values of equality, freedom, fraternity, secularism and solidarity, values which it is incumbent on us today more than ever to reaffirm. Thus, the 408 million support to the French Education Agency abroad in 2021 confirms the increase of 25 million euros over the past year. It is our responsibility. Finally, the tourism sector will continue to benefit from the recovery plan and the resources allocated to Atout France in this programme will help to speed up the development of new solutions, to accompany their deployment on a wider scale so that tourism companies quickly integrate them for the continuation of their activity, and to revive the attractiveness of the destination France by helping to build the tourism of tomorrow, our group will ensure that sustainable tourism is the only way of perpetuating the sector and aspiration that the population and the territories share. [[Mr. Jean-Charles Colas-Royapplaudit]] For all these reasons, the working Republic Group will approve the budget for the mission "External action of the State", and will be fully involved in the exercise of parliamentary control over its appropriations, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u29	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u30	It was therefore necessary to wait until the fourth year of the quinquennium for you, Minister, to present us with a budget for the mission "External Action of the State" in a slight increase and without further abolition of posts. Since 2017, we have been witnessing, budget after budget, a decline in the means of action of your ministry, which had already made a significant contribution to the effort to reduce public spending for almost ten years, to the point where today's situation is very difficult. The Republican Group has long been calling for additional resources. But it would be illusory to believe that these could meet expectations and needs, as the accumulated shortage is great. Last spring, our embassies and consulates, our entire diplomatic and influential network, were heavily impacted by the crisis of the Covid-19. But this global health crisis has been an additional indicator of the inadequacy of the resources allocated to and the tasks assigned to all diplomatic personnel. And if our system has kept up despite its rigidity and cumbersomeness, it is because the staff of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, and our diplomatic and consular network, have mobilized in a remarkable way. On behalf of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, The Republicans, to pay tribute to them and to pay tribute to their actions, and I ask you, Minister, to convey our congratulations to them. But the D system, which has prevailed in exceptional circumstances, cannot be used as a sustainable management policy for the Quai d'Orsay, especially when the challenges we face are so numerous. Beyond your personal action and your commitment, which I know is sincere and determined, Minister, today alone counts the question of the means of your ambitions and the results of your diplomatic action. Do you give French diplomacy the means to meet its ambitions, knowing that they are numerous and high? I can only salute here the presidential will to put France and its diplomacy at the heart of the concert of nations... but for what results? Since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have certainly had the right to beautiful speeches, including the flamboyant speeches of the President of the Republic, to beautiful summits, to roundly conducted communication operations, to various and repeated incantations, in any case to a certain activism in the field of communication. The new world was talking about revolution, a diplomacy of audacity, disruption, risk-taking, reinvention... Unfortunately, once again, the return to reality is cruel. What remains of the overjoyed relationship with President Trump? Nothing. The United States left the Paris agreement on climate, as did the Vienna agreement on Iranian nuclear power, while Emmanuel Macron was keen to bring them back. What about the new relationship with Russia? The idea of a strategic dialogue with this great neighbouring country of Europe is now at a standstill, yet it is an essential element in view of the situation we are experiencing in many parts of the world, including at the gates of Europe in Belarus. But presidential activism continues to multiply, whether in the Middle East – Lebanon among others – or in the Middle East, but also in the Upper Karabakah where our Armenian brothers are killed, or on NATO issues – the North Atlantic Treaty Organization – and even in Europe and the Mediterranean. But all this for what results? It must be noted that the major projects launched by the President of the Republic are not progressing, that the influence of France in Europe and in the world is receding. Because by wanting to be everywhere, we end up finding ourselves nowhere. All too often, it is observed that the solitary crusade of the President of the Republic is increasingly isolating our country, while we would prefer it to feud more to make a common front. This would, of course, begin by preventing the President of the Republic from expressing his distrust of diplomats and the Quai d'Orsay, which is called a "deep state". Mr. Minister, our diplomacy today is outpaced by the means given to it and by the objectives it must achieve, all the more so because, by multiplying them, we find it difficult to see the priorities and to detect the consistency of your diplomatic action. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If this 2021 budget finally breaks with the wanderings of the beginning of the quinquennium, our group considers that it did not draw the consequences of the crisis, that it does not sufficiently anticipate the difficulties that await our country next year and that it is not up to the diplomatic action that we are entitled to expect from a large country like France. That is why we will oppose the budget presented here. As I finish my speech, I would like to pay tribute to the victims of the barbaric attack in Nice and the one that struck the Consulate General of France in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u31	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u32	In the dramatic moments in our country, it is difficult to mobilize here for a budgetary discussion, but I believe it is our duty and honour to meet our commitments. I will begin with a fraternal and supportive thought for the victims of terrorism and for their families. With regard to programme 105, I would also like to commend the work of all the staff of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs at the beginning of the health crisis. On behalf of the dozens of families in my constituency who have been able to resume their lives after being blocked in different countries of the world, I thank the officials of the ministry for the mobilization and determination they have shown during this very special spring. The health crisis has reinforced an idea that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats has always defended: downsizing of the Ministry is not desirable. My colleagues and I therefore welcome the stabilization of the wage bill at the Quai d'Orsay – a first for this budget for twenty years, Minister. The trend decline that had prevailed until today was a nonsense with regard to the possibility of resurgence of international crises, the French ambition to remain a driving force for multilateralism and the increase in the number of Francophones around the world. Since these challenges are not limited to the year 2021, it will be necessary to continue the process of stabilizing the wage bill and even to undertake an increase in the workforce of the Quai d'Orsay after 2022. Let this gel not be a fleeting gesture of Bercy! Of course, we will vote on the appropriations for programme 105. The budget for the 185 "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence" programme is slightly up by €3 million compared to 2020. We can only welcome this in the context of the crisis that we are going through; But this budget must also be linked to the issues, needs and effectiveness of our public policies. Indeed, I fear that the challenges associated with the covid-19 epidemic will overshadow the structural challenges of cultural diplomacy and the need to deploy much more resources. In his report, Frédéric Petit took the example of France's cultural action in Egypt, highlighting the increase in our teaching capacities in French; But let us not forget that the Egyptian population is increasing by 2 million people a year! We measure the difference in scale and the importance of the needs, so the means that should be used to cope with a very dynamic demography – the African population should triple by 2100. France must be at the rendezvous of these demographic changes, but also of competition: other players such as China, Turkey and Russia are increasingly present. Even if the budget for cultural diplomacy is on the rise, it must be agreed that it is not adapted to the changes we are about to undergo. It must be admitted with all vision: in many parts of the world, our cultural influence weakens or regresses. In his speech in Ouagadougou, as in the plan "Une ambition pour la langue française et le plurilinguisme" of 2018, or in the plan for the development of French education abroad of 2019, the President of the Republic has made strong commitments for France's action abroad in the field of education and culture, putting La Francophonie at the centre of its strategy. By 2030, French cultural diplomacy aims to create ten new French Alliances a year and to double the number of students enrolled in the French school network. In formulating such objectives, the President of the Republic has made cultural diplomacy one of the main axes of our strategy of influence. It is through the strengthening of the Francophone educational network that our country will be able to spread over the next fifteen or twenty years, that its values will remain universal, that its interests will be able to flourish. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group and I will vote for the Mission's appropriations. In the years to come, however, we will have to see more – in terms of budget, but also in terms of methodology and tools. If we do not understand the urgency of the situation, let us bet that the ambitions of the Head of State – our ambitions! – will remain pious vows.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u33	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u34	The appropriations for the "External Action of the State" budget mission are relatively stable compared to the 2020 finance law, with an increase of EUR 59 million in commitment authorisations and 66 million in payment appropriations. This increase is mainly due to programme 105 "Action de la France en Europe et au monde", which increases by 58 million euros in commitment authorisations and 65 million in payment appropriations. Within Programme 105, the "Diplomatic Network" action is increasing the most, with an additional €35 million in commitment authorisations and €49 million in payment appropriations, followed by the "Support" action, which increases by €20 million in commitment authorisations and €11 million in payment appropriations. To sum up, for the deputies of the Socialist and related groups, the total relative increase in the appropriations of the mission "External action of the State" compared to 2020 comes mainly from the security of the French rights of way abroad, the real estate actions and the renovation of the functioning of our embassies. In the post-covid-19 context and at a time when France is experiencing a high level of distrust in some parts of the world, it would probably have been more appropriate to consider an additional budgetary effort in order to maintain our ambition of influence or, according to the term "soft power". The Quai d'Orsay is one of the departments that most strictly meets Bercy's annual workforce targets, sometimes exceeding them. However – we agree regularly in our work with our colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – all parties agree that this logic has reached its limits if we are to maintain the French role and presence abroad. In our view, the abolition of positions under Public Action 2022 should be subject to a moratorium in 2021 and 2022. Another major trend in the funding of the ministry's missions is to replace conventional budget appropriations with an increasing reliance on self-financing, which raises many questions. Finally, the Socialist and Related Group considers that the appropriations for protection and social action should be substantially increased in order to deal with the consequences of the covid-19. We will present some amendments, in particular to abound the budget for social assistance to French abroad, whose needs are increased by the health crisis, and the resources of the Agence pour l'enseignement français abroad. In any event, we are moving towards an abstention from the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u35	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u36	In an unstable and uncertain international context, marked by the proliferation of crisis and conflict zones, the mission "External action of the State" entrusted to the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs is at the heart of France's diplomacy of influence. Throughout the confinement, program 151 has been at the heart of the action of the Quai d'Orsay, while we often forget that nearly 3.5 million of our compatriots are living abroad. Today, the attack on a guard stationed at the entrance of our Consulate General in Jeddah, whose courage I salute, reminds us of the increasingly precarious security conditions in which they live. We all remember the assassination of eight humanitarians in Niger this summer. In this perspective, we can only rejoice at the reappearance during the last reshuffle of a secretariat of state to the French abroad: it was an important signal addressed to the French community who resided internationally. It is common to talk about the universal nature of our diplomatic and consular network without being able to grasp its full dimension. However, no country other than France can boast of having allowed the return of more than 370,000 of its citizens, who had found themselves overnight blocked all over the world without any possibility of repatriation. Mr Minister, we had almost weekly meetings at that time, and I appreciate your commitment and your involvement in these returns. Throughout these weeks, the Quai d'Orsay has shown ingenuity and readiness to respond to a series of dramatic situations, for which almost all of us have been asked in our ridings. I have in memory the consul of Tangier mounted on a caravan with a microphone to haranguer the camping-caristes and explain the procedure. Abroad, France has a face: that of the men and women who make up our consular network. Our compatriots have thus been able to measure the full commitment of our diplomats in general, and of our consular officers in particular. With a total of 136 million euros excluding staff costs, the means of consular action are stabilized. The economic consequences of the pandemic on French foreigners have been the subject of early budgetary measures in the framework of the PLFR of July 2020. For example, an additional EUR 100 million has been allocated to the 151 programme, of which EUR 50 million has been allocated for school support and EUR 50 million for the financing of occasional solidarity relief to our foreign compatriots affected by the health crisis. These aids have been more than beneficial for our network of French schools abroad and for the parents of students, whom I meet at each of my trips – most recently still in Niger and Morocco. At the end of September, 100% of the annual budget for the grant envelope was consumed, whereas the ratio is usually 70% at the same time. The 2021 finance bill brings the allocation for social affairs to €20 million. It is an increase of €2.9 million, or 17%, compared to 2020, in order to provide a provision for economic uncertainties, which vary from country to country. The health crisis has affected the functioning of our democracy. This was the case for municipal elections, in the national territory, but also abroad, for consular elections, postponed due to the pandemic. The programme will benefit from a carry-over of the appropriations voted in 2020 to 2021. This setback must, however, speed up our reflection on the introduction of electronic voting, which is planned for these elections. This is a real democratic emergency, at a time when, from election to election, the rate of abstention continues to rise, especially among French people living abroad. We take this opportunity to pay tribute to the often unknown daily work done by our consular officials to 3.5 million of our compatriots. These ambassadors of French know-how and know-how do not count their hours of presence as close as possible to the French community, while educational, security, environmental, cultural and economic issues are increasing. Thank you, Minister, for having received them recently in Mali. Europe and the international dimension are deeply rooted in the DNA of the Working Together Group. We are thus moving forward with the idea of a convention of the French abroad, which could be organised very soon in order to bring together all the political, associative, administrative or civil actors who deal with the subject. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group, as well as on several benches of the REM and DEM groups]] Attentive to the continuation of the upward trend in this budget, see amplified in the forthcoming PLFs, the Action Together Group will vote the appropriations of the mission 'External action of the State'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u37	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u38	"Tell my children that I love them", these are the words spoken in her last breath by a parishioner massacred by the Islamist barbarism in Nice, in the very city where children who attended a fireworks were massacred recently. Candle stop; Stop the minutes of silence! We're at war. We have to destroy them: it's them or us! The appropriations for the "External Action of the State" mission, amounting to €2.9 billion, are up slightly after years of decline. This is an encouraging development, as the pandemic has greatly affected our diplomatic and consular network, which, I recall, is the third in the world, with 160 embassies, 89 consulates-general and 112 consular sections. For the first time in twenty years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not experience any downsizing. The IDU and Independent Group calls for the continuation of this trend and hopes that this budget will signify the long-term abandonment of the policy of the plan which has exhausted services and impoverished our diplomatic tool. I come to a few comments on the three programmes that make up the mission. The 105 "Action de la France en Europe et dans le monde" programme alone covers 63% of the appropriations. It deals with the operational implementation of the broad guidelines of our foreign policy, notably through European action, international organisations or security cooperation. After years of decline, and then a stabilization of the program's credits in the 2020 Finance Bill, this year they are up 3.27%. In my view, however, the significant effort is still insufficient at this stage. In fact, the EUR 60 million increase does not compensate for the EUR 100 million abolished in 2018-2019. The quality of our staff is obviously not at stake: it is the aligned means that do not meet the ambitions, especially since half of the increase is concentrated on the real estate budget. The need to secure our diplomatic representations is obvious, as evidenced by the attack that took place this morning in front of the French consulate in Jeddah, but other investment projects do not have the same priority. The IDU and Independent Group, on the other hand, welcomes the increase in funding for security and defence cooperation in the wake of the effort undertaken in 2019. The appropriations for programme 151 "French abroad and consular affairs" remain stable and amount to EUR 373 million. We also have a mixed opinion on them. Indeed, action 01 "Offering quality public service to French abroad", relating to consular services, again saw its budgetary appropriations decrease. The decrease is slight, of course, but it is very real. This downward stagnation is difficult to understand when we know the remarkable mobilisation of consular staff, at all levels, in the face of the pandemic – as I pointed out in committee last week – especially since the network has made a very heavy transformation effort in recent years, particularly in the framework of the Public Action 2022 programme. Despite the tangible results of the modernization reforms, the health crisis has caused delays, which is quite normal. Thus the experiment of a consular reception platform was postponed to 2021, as was the establishment of the register of the electronic civil state. In this context, our group will defend an amendment which aims to abound the envelope dedicated to the consular network. The €105 million appropriations for Action 02 "Access for French students to the AEFE network", relating to school support, remain stable, but this is not enough. Of course, it is worth adding to this the famous 15 million summation, as well as the 50 million envelope, released as part of the exceptional support plan voted in the third amending finance bill for 2020. While many families are hit hard by the crisis, no French child should be excluded for financial reasons – I know that we share the same position on this subject, minister. That is why I will defend an amendment which provides for an increase of EUR 10 million in the budget of the grants. On the other hand, the chronic under-consumption of credits is worrying: a problem persists regarding distribution criteria. Like many of my colleagues, I am frequently seized by middle-class parents who are too rich to qualify for help, but too poor to pay school fees that explode. I have been calling tirelessly for a review of the criteria for seven years and I request a report from the Government on this matter. As regards support for the associations of French foreigners or STAFE, our group regrets that the appropriations remain stable at 2 million euros, well below the 3.34 million allocated to parliamentarians. We have tabled an amendment to increase subsidies. Finally, with 718 million euros, a very slight increase, the 185 programme "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence" reflects great ambitions without budgetary translation. Mr Habib, we must conclude! I'm finishing, Madam President. In this context, the IDU and Independent Group notes with satisfaction the increase in the appropriations allocated to AEFE, which shows an increase of EUR 18 million. However, this positive development is still insufficient. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group decided to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u39	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u40	The health crisis has highlighted the importance for the French abroad to have a suitable consular service and rapid access. While the decline in mobility justifies a decrease in the appropriations for certain missions of the 185 programme "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence", the 151 programme "French abroad and consular affairs" foresees a gradual resumption of activities in 2021, which seems to justify a stabilisation of the appropriations allocated to its actions, in particular its action 03 "Instruction of visa applications" whose budget is slightly increased compared to 2020. Mr Minister, this stabilisation is a good thing, when you announced at your last hearing in committee a 71% reduction in visa applications compared to last year because of a health crisis, and when we can fear that the path will be the same for the months to come. It is particularly welcome that the envelope dedicated to aid to French people living abroad has been increased. However, we can ask ourselves about the funds dedicated to OLES, the local aid and solidarity organisations. Indeed, the evolution of the health crisis in 2021 is uncertain and, as indicated in the 2021 finance bill, "regardless of the health crisis, some of the French residents abroad continue to be impoverished". Therefore, in our view, the allocation of EUR 410000, reserved for OLEs, which remains stable compared to 2020, while these bodies have been strongly mobilized to help our compatriots weakened by the health crisis, should be increased. Within the 185 programme "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence", Action 02 "Cultural Cooperation and Promotion of French", and Action 05 "Agency pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger" benefit from an increase in their appropriations compared to 2020, but these are the only ones in the programme, which reinforces the gap with the other actions of the programme, Action 03 "Sustainable development objectives", Action 04 "Higher education and research", or Action 07 "Economic Diplomacy and Development of Tourism", the latter recording the largest decrease in appropriations of the programme, i.e. almost 10% compared to 2020. The health crisis partly explains this decrease: it has had a strong impact on scientific and academic mobility, postponed or even completely cancelled. Such a situation could continue in 2021. I come back a little more precisely to two actions. The appropriations for Action 03 "Sustainable Development Goals", or SDGs, decrease by 4.17% compared to 2020. While this decline can probably be explained by a lack of mobility for a long period of time, and therefore the funds allocated to the so-called SDG grants and exchanges of expertise will not increase in 2021, the necessary exchanges of expertise on particularly important subjects, especially in times of health crisis, will have to take place thanks to other tools that need to be properly financed. With regard to action 06 "Support" of programme 105 "Action de la France en Europe et dans le monde", the draft finance law states that "uncertainties related to the health crisis do not allow for a reduction in the costs of service missions in France since, even if the number of missions is reduced, the cost of travel is increasing". The argument would also be valid for the mobilitys of the other programmes, yet it is not repeated. I would like to point out that, as part of the intervention expenditure of Action 03, there are the allocations for operations at the EAF – institutions with financial autonomy – multidisciplinary, which allow local and regional actions in the fields of environmental conservation and medical research. As for Action 04 "Higher Education and Research" of the 185 programme, it is also subject to a reduction in its appropriations by 5.33% compared to 2020. The grants awarded by the French Government are the most affected by this decline. As with the decrease in the appropriations for Action 03, this decline is linked to the postponement or cancellation of mobility. However, while significantly reducing the funds allocated to the French Government's scholarships, the PLF states that "in order to keep up with international developments, resources will have to be made available to support the mobility of students from crisis areas" such as Syria and Lebanon. The drastic reduction in these appropriations is therefore paradoxical in relation to the objectives adopted, but also in relation to the arguments put forward for other programmes, while it is recognised in the PLF that the network of French research institutes abroad has been particularly useful in analysing the major social, economic and political upheavals taking place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u41	We must conclude, Mr. Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u42	In the end, the budget of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs is nevertheless strengthened. Given the economic and health context, when we have seen the Ministry's officers make considerable efforts to repatriate our countrymen scattered all over the world, this may be a good thing for us. As a result, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for the appropriations proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u43	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u44	The health crisis has provided a welcome focus on the work of our Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, recalling that it was at the service of our fellow citizens scattered around the world. The covid-19, by mobilizing our entire diplomatic network, has shown, yesterday and even today, how important it is for France to treat its consular ramifications. First of all, I would like to welcome the mobilization of all the officials who have worked and will work, day and night, to facilitate the repatriation of our citizens. I want to believe that the stabilization of the workforce, which has been unprecedented for twenty years, is tantamount to recognizing their importance as the cornerstones of our international action. This recognition, late but necessary, we have constantly called for it. Since my election, together with my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq, we have tirelessly repeated in committee that we must consolidate our diplomatic corps and not empty it from its forces by reducing staff. I dare hope, if we can expect anything from a government stuck in neoliberal dogma, that the new trend will be confirmed in the future. I remind you that eighty-five jobs should have been eliminated this year: it took an exceptional health crisis to force you to put the austerity in the box you were about to put out! I would also remind you that in 30 years, the Quai d'Orsay has lost 53% of its workforce. For thirty years, the ministry has found itself making the big gap, subject to a kind of adversarial injunction that amounts to doing more and more with less – we are talking about what Emmanuel Macron called "agile diplomacy" in 2018. In this painful gymnastics, the health crisis therefore offers, in a way, a respite. But until when, Mr. Minister? What you're doing this year, won't Bercy defeat him next year? I turn to the promotion of French cultural outreach, which is one of the department's priorities. At the beginning of 2020, the Government was moved to see a 30 per cent drop in foreign students in France due to the health crisis. But how can we regret at home what we encourage elsewhere? Is the sharp rise in tuition fees for foreign students in the name of university attractiveness not part of a job that undermines our cultural influence? The suppression of the France Ô channel, which allowed our culture to radiate and be heard from the Pacific Ocean to the Indian Ocean through the Atlantic Ocean, does not contribute to the deafening of our voice rich in its diversity? Finally, I have the feeling, before this budget, of reading a cyclical adjustment in response to a crisis that would only be temporary. It is about investing in real estate and security, modernising digital access, but, of course, all this should be at the service of a political orientation. There are also the questions that we can't find anywhere, and I want to ask you. Where are we questioning the action of the ministry when it steals LVMH's support to enable it to break Tiffany's buyout? What is the issue of the ministry's action when Emmanuel Macron, in a particularly condescending manner, promises the improbable to the Lebanese people – unlikely to the point that this people saw Saad Hariri become Prime Minister for the third time? [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] All this to tell you that a budget does not make a policy. While I welcome the retention of the staff of the Quai d'Orsay, we would still have to agree on the nature of their work and the meaning of their action, and I believe that in this respect it is little to say that our disagreements are profound. But since we are not dogmatic and we want things to move forward, the group of France will abstain from this budget, hoping that the march set in motion, consisting of a little reorganisation of the budget and a cessation of the melting of the staff of our diplomatic corps, will be reflected in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u45	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u46	In order to cope with the turmoil and challenges of today's world, France needs strong diplomacy. This world is a world of crises, such as the pandemic crisis of the Covid-19 that still strikes our country and our continent so hard. It is a world of brutal power relations, in which our French and European sovereignty are tested every day. And it is a highly dangerous world, as we know only too much and as the terrorist attack in Nice this morning cost the lives of three of our compatriots and the stabbing of one of the agents who guarded our consulate in Jeddah last night. These are extremely serious facts, let me say a word about them before dealing with strictly budgetary matters. In this dangerous world, hatred takes on new faces, spreads through new ways, uses new pretexts, but one thing does not change: hatred continues to kill because hatred, even online, is the first word of violence. That is why we cannot accept that some in the world can work, even with fire, to sow confusion, to manipulate public opinion and to instrumentalize movements of popular emotion. We cannot accept that they make our commitment to fundamental freedoms an infringement of freedom of worship, while those who know the history of our Republic know that these freedoms are, on the contrary, means for us to guarantee the freedom to believe or not to believe and the peaceful coexistence of religions within the public space. Let us say it very clearly, once and for all: the Muslims of France belong to our national community. Our secular Republic recognizes the same legitimacy to worship as to practitioners of other religions, as it recognizes the right to atheism. We cannot therefore accept these campaigns of misinformation and manipulation, because they aim to distort and distort these realities, and because we see, in the drama, that we are moving quickly from virtual hatred to real violence. Today I want to convey three very clear messages, of which I hope they will be heard and understood in all their implications far beyond this forum. The first is that statements and acts have consequences and involve their perpetrators in liability, and that France never forgets. The second is that Europeans and, far beyond Europe, many States of good will are not fooled. We see, and our partners see, that what is at stake is first and foremost an essential, almost existential, fight against extremism and religious radicalism. The final message is that we will never compromise our humanistic values of freedom and our model of democracy and pluralism. On this new day of trial for the nation, these values and this model must remain our compass, and nothing would be worse than falling into the traps that are set for us, the traps of amalgam, the traps of confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and DEM groups, as well as on several benches of the Action ens, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] That is why I also want to send a message of peace to the Muslim world, to tell it that France is not the country of contempt or rejection but the country of tolerance. Do not listen to voices that seek to stir up distrust. Muslim religion and culture are part of our French, European history, we respect it; Then let us not let ourselves be trapped in the outrages of a minority of manipulators. You will have understood this, ladies and gentlemen, in a world like this, we need a strong diplomacy, that is, a diplomacy that has the human and financial means to defend our interests, our values, by acting hand in hand with our partners in the European Union and all the continents that wish to do so, in a renewed multilateralism. I am not the only one who rejoices that the PLF 2021 gives us these means. I am not going to go back to all the provisions of this PLF and the "External Action of the State" mission. The rapporteurs, Vincent Ledoux in particular, said what was essential. I would just like to point out four points. First of all, in this budget for 2021, we gain in efficiency, in means. Thank you for recognizing that, for the first time in twenty years, the department will retain the same number of jobs. We've lost a lot of them. I am convinced that, as almost all of you have said, the determination of the women and men of the Quai d'Orsay who have worked day and night to ensure the return of hundreds of thousands of French surprised abroad, has contributed to this awareness of their role, and I thank you for the support you have given them. For me, it's not a break; It's, I hope, the end of the bleeding and the beginning of the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u49	You hope so, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u50	Among the good news, which is not numerous at the moment, I understand that Mr Lecoq and Mrs Autain may vote the budget next year, and that Mr Herbillon may abstain. The logic we have undertaken is recognized by each other. Second point: on real estate, we have changed portage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u51	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u52	It's about time, but it's over. We have been able to increase programme 105 in this regard and have also been able to benefit once again from a right of return to 100 per cent of the proceeds of disposal in the trust account 723. So we are on a new logic and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u53	Very good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u54	It was important. On security, many of you have noted that we are pursuing our vigorous policy to ensure the security of positions abroad. It's essential. The implementation of the four-year plan will be completed in embassies as early as 2021 and in high schools as early as 2022, with an additional €9 million allocated to the AEFE. We have committed on digital technology a significant modernization to meet security needs and ensure the necessary technical development. With the direction of this budget, we will be able to continue our commitment to the preservation of peace and the defence of multilateralism. Our financial commitments under programme 105 to France's international contributions are being met, even with a bonus, in a way, since, thanks to the strengthening of the euro against the dollar, we have an availability of EUR 16 million which we allocate to the multilateralism organizations, namely, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Peacebuilding Fund. Thirdly, we will strengthen our consular action. Although the figures remain fairly stable, this stability masks the significant financial effort undertaken in 2020 to respond to the economic and social consequences of the crisis for the French abroad. You have kindly recalled that 100 million additional euros were, thanks to your action, your support and your inquiry, released at the end of July to provide our compatriots abroad with the social and educational support necessary for the new needs of 2020 and 2021. We want to put this support on a sustainable basis by increasing the means of social assistance by 17% in 2021, but also by the carry-over of the appropriations included in the recovery plan in this respect, as Mrs Lenne has pointed out. Finally, I stress the importance of the new battles of influence. You talked about each other. We need to further consolidate our tools of cultural diplomacy and influence. I see three priority topics. The first is the promotion and dissemination of the French language, which will be essential in 2021, the year in which we celebrate the fifty years of la francophonie. The strengthening of the AEFE's resources is absolutely essential in this respect, including, Mr. Frédéric Petit, in the three missions of the AEFE. The second project is cultural and artistic outreach, with the importance of the dissemination and export of our cultural and creative industries, the ICCs. Finally, it is the establishment of academic and scientific partnerships, especially in the development of university campuses. You talked about Franco-African campuses. It is absolutely essential to win this battle of influence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is in a few words, ladies and gentlemen, how we intend to use these strengthened means to provide diplomatic answers to all the major international issues that affect the daily life and the future of the French, together with all our partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u55	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Samantha Cazebonne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u56	Mr Minister, from the very beginning of the covid-19 crisis, France, through your ministry, has shown that solidarity extends to all French people, including across borders, by putting in place a system, unique in the world, of social assistance with recently reduced allocation rules so that these aids can more easily reach French nationals from abroad who are hard hit. In addition, your ministry, through a substantial increase in funding for French schools abroad and for scholarships, to the tune of EUR 100 million, has heard families and educational teams so that children of any nationality can continue to cross the doors of schools where republican values, critical spirit and freedom of expression are deployed, so necessary to cross these troubled times together. As we know, the crisis is far from behind us. Will your ministry continue to be at the meeting to support the French abroad as well as the French education network hit by the crisis? Will it also support measures to further assist local self-help and solidarity organisations, French alliances and particularly tried and tested FLAM associations - French as a mother tongue?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u57	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u58	Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have spared no effort to help our poorest compatriots. To date, thanks to the mechanism I mentioned earlier, almost €2 million has been spent on occasional relief and €1.6 million has been spent on associations helping our compatriots, whose commitment to our posts I welcome. In 2020, EUR 112 million – 13 million more than the envelope delegated to AEFE under the BIA for 2020 – was spent on scholarships for our citizens. In 2021, we will continue this effort on all points, because we know that the situation remains very degraded for our compatriots; the demands, much more numerous in the last few weeks, show this. With regard to social assistance for the French abroad, we intend to maintain the effort made in 2020 towards our compatriots in difficulty and associations, as evidenced by the increase of almost 3 million in the so-called "social affairs" envelope. We have also, as you know, requested that some of the appropriations allocated in July be carried over to 2021. My answer is therefore positive, including for the FLAM associations, weakened by the health crisis: the exceptional financial support they received from the AEFE will be renewed, as they play an essential role. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My answer is equally positive for school support. The appropriations voted during the examination of PLFR 3 are carried over to 2021 to support school scholarships. Your inquiry was timely, but I think my answer is clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u59	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u60	For several years, the Agency for French Education Abroad has suffered a significant decrease in credits. Due to the decline in public funding, AEFE's total expenditure has exceeded its resources every year since 2015. For schools faced with a lack of public funding, the budgetary adjustment therefore consists mainly of the increase in tuition fees, an increase of 25% since 2012 and reaching almost 5300 euros on average. But the crisis of the coronavirus also affects our compatriots abroad; They are likely to unregister their children from our schools if the level of school support is not increased. We noted well that under the French abroad support plan, 50 million had been released by the Financial Amendment Act of 30 July 2020 with a view to a stronger mobilization of the school scholarship schemes. However, the maintenance by the 2021 finance bill of the allocation for school grants of 105 million euros, at the same level as in the finance law for 2020, does not anticipate the difficulties associated with the evolution of the coronavirus. Under these circumstances, minister, would you be prepared to abound the AEFE budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u61	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u62	As I said a few moments ago, the AEFE's resources will rise by 9 million in 2021, to incorporate, it is true, the appropriations linked to the securing of schools. Let me note, however, that I committed myself last year that the exceptional measure of 26.4 million that you adopted in favour of the development of French education abroad should be maintained in the future as a budgetary basis. The parliamentarians who believed in this commitment should not be numerous and yet it was kept! We have significantly increased AEFE's level of funding to support its role in supporting the development of the network of French educational institutions abroad, particularly in countries where French communities are growing rapidly. The objective has been achieved, since 15 additional licences have already been registered since the beginning of the year. I was in Tunisia last week, where I was able to see the strength of this dynamic. With regard to the health crisis related to covid-19, as I have already said, an emergency plan has been drawn up for the French school network abroad. Schools received 100 million direct grants, 50 million for scholarships and 50 million for the French education network abroad, not to mention the 50 million advance from Agence France Trésor. All these measures will help to keep the course. In addition, it has been decided to implement the second phase of the emergency plan from now on, which provides for assistance to all the institutions of the network for the additional expenditure related to the health crisis and for specific assistance for those who have lost the largest number of pupils. [[Yves Daniel applauds]] As you can see, AEFE has important resources and will continue to have them tomorrow. It is about France's presence abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u63	I call the appropriations of the "External Action of the State" mission, entered in statement B. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 780 and 1054. Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u64	It aims to increase by 10 million the budget allocation for action 02 "Access of French students to the AEFE network" of programme 151 "French abroad and consular affairs". As I said in my opening remarks, it is a matter of abounding in the budget to support the schooling of French children enrolled in the institutions of the AEFE network. Our country has an exceptional international school network: this network is France's flagship abroad, but I'm worried about it. The health crisis has led to a decline in the financial resources of some French families who have chosen to enrol their children in French educational institutions abroad and who are no longer in a position to pay tuition fees. The first school upsurges after the September 2020 school year show a decrease in the number of pupils of 2,600, or 0.8% of the population. I am contacted by many families who will be forced to remove their children from the school system because they can no longer afford to pay their children's tuition fees. In September, parents of students from the Pierre Loti High School in Istanbul told me of their distress. I wrote to the director of AEFE, Olivier Brochet, on October 6th – I also sent a copy of this letter to Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State for Tourism, French Foreigners and Francophones. A Frenchman from Instanbul told me his despair: "Even if we are not on French territory, where schooling is free and compulsory, I think that no French child should be excluded from French school and its roots just because of financial difficulties. Unfortunately, I have received testimonies like this in dozens. Minister, you know better than anyone else: abroad, access to French education often allows the link to be maintained with France. Faced with the risk of massive drop-out within the AEFE network, I would ask you to increase by 10 million the budget for school support for children enrolled in this network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u65	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1054.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u66	The purpose of this amendment tabled by the Socialist and Related Group is to compensate for the stagnant appropriations compared to the Finance Act for 2020. He therefore proposed that the budget should be increased to support the schooling of French children enrolled in the institutions of the AEFE network. Tuition fees of 5300 euros per year are very heavy for families. Everything that can be done to reduce this participation will be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u67	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u68	Amendment No 1054 was rejected by the Finance Committee, which did not consider the same amendment No 780. It is not necessary, at this stage, to include an additional EUR 10 million on aid for the education of French pupils in French education abroad. As the Minister recalled, the current allocation of $105 million is $4 million higher than the amount consumed in 2019, which provides us with a security margin. However, after the September meeting of the National Scholarship Commission, we are already seeing an overrun of 2.5 million compared to the budget originally planned for 2020. In addition, 1.5 million ex gratia appeals were handled in the third quarter, even before the consular councils of the fall scholarships – CWB – were held. I would point out that 50 million was allocated by LFR 3 for aid to French families weakened by the crisis, if necessary by revising the criteria of income or wealth taken into account in defining the amounts or quotients of the grant – which leaves us a lot of room, Mr Habib. We will have the opportunity to take stock of the second national scholarship commission. A high level of consumption of the credits from the exceptional envelope could indicate that recurring needs are becoming long-term higher than previous years, but we do not have sufficient setbacks at this stage. Finally, I should like to add that the budget maintains an AEFE working fund for grants, the so-called relief resulting from overpayments for previous years, which covers the risk of expenditure on benefits and responds to unforeseen demands. This sum amounted to 20 million at the beginning of the year. I therefore think it would be preferable not to increase the appropriations in this envelope: it would expose them to the risk of being cancelled for lack of expenditure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u70	I have already replied, I believe, to these amendments in my opening remarks and in my reply to Mrs Cazebonne. The appropriations provided for the "External Action of the State" mission in 2021 will address the concerns expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u71	Not everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u72	The 50 million aid provided by LFR 3 for families weakened by the crisis remains partly available, as well as the 105 million allocation for school scholarships and the potential impact that the Special Rapporteur has just mentioned. I am against these amendments, because they propose a measure that is not necessary. If there was a problem, we could talk about it, but I don't see it at this stage, nor do I see it last year – but we didn't have EUR 50 million at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u73	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1051.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u74	It is intended to compensate for the previous reductions in the Government's budget by providing an equivalent amount to the AEFE. The Socialist and Related Group proposes to increase the public service expense subsidy by 4 million, in order to restore the credits to their 2020 level and thus avoid the use of increased tuition fees. Such an increase would be consistent with the ambitious objective set by the President of the Republic to double the number of students attending French schools abroad. Again, I recall the amount of tuition fees in these institutions: 5300 euros per year, which is huge! I recognize that the AEFE budget has been abounded this year, but tuition fees remain at the expense of families. What family is able to afford such a cost and to enrol two or three children in the institutions of the AEFE network?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u75	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u77	This amendment was rejected by the Finance Committee. As I told you in committee, Mr David, the subsidy paid to the AEFE will not fall in 2021, but will increase by 9 million, i.e. by 2%. This increase will fund school security work: it is a measure of budgetary sincerity when these expenditures were to be raised, in the previous two years, by an inoperative mechanism of advances from the special allocation account "Management of the State's real estate assets". In total, the increase of nearly 25 million in the public service subsidy in 2020 is sustained. This is a rebasing, which allows, over time, to reduce the rate of supplementary financial participation of institutions from 7,5 % to 6 %, which makes it possible to finance the modernisation and expansion of the capacity of institutions – no worries therefore to have on this point. This rebase also allows €5 million to be spent on the creation of trainers' posts and the structuring of 16 training centres, the "Regional Training Institutes", which were established on 1 January 2021. Finally, it supports applications for certification and develops the digital school. Since last summer, 100 million in support has been added to these long-term loans, including 50 million cash advances and 50 million euro in grants. In these grants, 25 million have already been consumed: 12 million in the form of grants to schools as they reduced tuition fees for foreign families in difficulty; 7 million in the form of grants to French educational institutions in Beirut, affected by the explosion of 4 August; 5 million for foreign families in Lebanon. The remaining $25 million is expected to finance the needs of schools in four areas: strengthening their digital capacity, supporting students in difficulty, implementing health protocols and training staff in distance learning. The renewed support for AEFE is therefore no doubt. Let us avoid artificially swelling budget envelopes and make the best use of new development levers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u79	I've already answered. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u80	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 589 of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u81	I would first like to make it clear to my colleagues, with regard to the previous amendments, that the AEFE operates a network of 522 high schools; the proposed measures could only have applied to 70 of them. The average tuition fee is 5000 euros, but some of the people who pay for it are not supported by the state at all, while others are. I propose, as we have been trying to do for two years, to rework the agency's operation so that it is in charge of the 522 high schools and achieves its goal of doubling the number of staff within the network. As a result, the grant will not mechanically reduce the amount of paints on the planet as a whole. The purpose of this amendment is to restore family confidence in the network of French establishments abroad, as it has been lost. It therefore tends to create a management system within AEFE that could be certified in the next three or four years. On the occasion of the health crisis, the school also experienced a deficit of confidence in France; It responded by creating a quality control tool to monitor and analyse responses to the crisis situation. However, unlike families living in France, those living abroad have a choice, as schooling in a French institution is not compulsory. It is therefore necessary to create an internationally recognized tool that can compensate for this lack of confidence. Moreover, our colleague Bruno Fuchs mentioned earlier the competition suffered by the AEFE in terms of influence; It is not sufficiently organized and developed to deal with it. Today, she is immersed in the big bath, if I may say so, and is confronted with systems of diplomacy, influence and the creation of schools that she struggles to compete with. We must help it organize itself to meet the needs of 21st century diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u83	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work done by our colleague Frédéric Petit on this subject, which is essential for the French abroad but also for the French community as a whole. The Committee on Finance has rejected the amendment, because we do not think that the vehicle chosen to provide funds is the right one. As a personal matter, Mr. Petit, I will issue a wisdom note, subject to the clarifications to be provided by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u85	As you know, French educational institutions abroad are subject to a quality requirement. The approval granted by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports establishes the conformity of education and the organisation of schools with the principles of the French education system, resulting in an effective quality control system. In addition, AEFE is committed to the evaluation mechanisms developed by the Ministry of National Education. The school's assessment board, which depends on it, offers second-level schools a self-assessment prior to their external evaluation. AEFE has indicated, and this is a good thing, that it would be very interested in implementing such an approach. AEFE is also committed to an AFNOR – Association française de normalisation labeling process; In the budgetary area, an external audit certification process has been introduced. All this goes in the right direction, but I understand your concern, Mr President-in-Office, about the quality of approvals and labelling for AEFE, particularly with regard to some of its tasks, which you mentioned earlier. Like the Special Rapporteur, I will therefore rely on the wisdom of the Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u86	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u87	I thank the Special Rapporteur and the Minister for their wisdom. Above all, it is important to restore confidence not in the Agency as a technical and administrative tool, but in the network of French establishments abroad. We must equip ourselves with a tool that proves to any family, whatever its nationality and whatever country it lives in, the quality of any establishment belonging to the network. I recall that we have integrated the FLAM program and the "LabelFrancEducation", which provides a kind of pre-licensing to institutions. All families should be able to know that when it comes to a French establishment, it is serious, it is certified, and what is said is done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u88	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1053.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u89	It aims to restore the level of funding that was granted to the major operators of the state in 2019, in abundance of €5 million the budget in favour of cultural cooperation, the promotion of French and tourism. The French institutes, which are financially independent institutions which are now linked to the cultural services of the embassies and are also part of the network of French alliances, are the driving force behind French language learning abroad. The decrease in appropriations, which amounts to a total of EUR 5 million and affects all components of the network – French institutes and French alliances – is not appropriate; It is even counterproductive in relation to the stated objectives of promoting the French language outside our borders. The financial losses suffered by these organizations as a result of the coronavirus crisis also call for a recovery of the credits. At a minimum, therefore, the appropriations entered in the Finance Act for 2019 should be reinstated for an amount of EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u91	On this subject, the state is on the rendezvous. The credits for the 185 "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence" programme had fallen sharply – by 11% – between 2012 and 2017; It may sound like ancient history, but it must still be remembered. For 2021, the allocations for the cultural services of embassies increase by almost 2 million euros to 56 million; €7.3 million in grants to French alliances and €28.8 million to the French Institute in Paris, which is the head of the institute network. The appropriations for the 185 programme have already increased sharply in 2018 and 2019; In order to cope with the crisis, in 2020 it received a further €9 million increase, including €5 million for one third of French institutes whose working capital was too low to cope with the shock of the crisis, which considerably reduced their own resources, €2 million for French alliances, and an additional €2 million for a final budget to be allocated at the end of the management process. I therefore insist: although I fully understand your concern, you do not have to worry about it, because the state is on the table. It is on the one hand to preserve the network and avoid the permanent closures of institutes or alliances, which would be disastrous; and on the other hand to keep the course on what remains our main objective: the influence of the French language and the cultural and creative industries. Finally, I would add that there is a need to accompany the adaptation of the network and to continue its modernisation, in particular in order to increase the share of digital services. I think I've responded to your concerns; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u92	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1050.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u93	[[Smile]] I have heard your argument, Mr Special Rapporteur, but there is no need to recall what happened in 2012; I wasn't born.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u94	[[Mr. Minister is raising his finger. – Smile]] Who was in the government at the time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u95	The purpose of this amendment is to abound the budget for social assistance to the most deprived French abroad, within the programme 151 "French abroad and consular affairs", by an amount equivalent to the increase set out in the finance law for 2020 compared to the finance law for 2019. These funds are intended to provide social assistance to our compatriots abroad who are in need, through the various consular councils for protection and social action – the CCPAS. This envelope allows monthly assistance to our compatriots with very low incomes, over 65 years of age or with disabilities, as well as to children in distress; It also provides one-off assistance to our compatriots in temporary difficulty, whether they are residents, transiters or detainees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u96	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u97	The Minister shall make every effort to ensure that the appropriations of his or her department are maintained; It's essential, and he called it back. Your intention is satisfied, since the 2021 finance bill already increases the social assistance appropriations by the consulates by €2.9 million, which represents an increase of 17% and brings them to an amount of €20 million. This seems sufficient, even though an exceptional amount of EUR 50 million has already been voted in the third amending finance law on programme 151, in order to provide one-off emergency aid, equivalent to that paid to modest families in France in spring 2020; It amounts to EUR 150 per household, with a supplement of EUR 100 per dependent child. As of 1 October, there were nearly 10000 beneficiaries, for 1.5 million euros consumed. In addition, grants have been made to social welfare associations, amounting to 1.5 million euros since March. The €50 million package opened this summer is far from exhausted. As a result of the prolongation of the effects of the crisis, the criteria for granting the aid were relaxed in September so that it could be paid up to four times by the end of 2020, at a monthly rate, allowing for greater payments to be made to certain consulates, notably those in Moscow, Bogota or London. We therefore do not think that there is a need for additional appropriations: an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u98	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u99	The Special Rapporteur has expressed my sentiment. I would like to thank Alain David for his perseverance on a subject that is essential, but also to remind that, to my knowledge, France is the only European country to have put in place such a system of social assistance for the benefit of its expatriates; It is made up of aid which can be permanent or exceptional, and is particularly generous. This provision is not based in domestic law on any legislative or regulatory provision. We reinforced this French exception at the time of the crisis of the covid-19, since an exceptional €50 million envelope was voted at the beginning of the crisis in the law of amending finance, which allowed us to create a specific aid on the basis of the aid granted in France. A general framework was given to consular posts; However, given the diversity of situations and the mobilisation of several deputies representing the French from abroad – some of whom are present here – I have been forced to give them more latitude so that they can act according to the reality of the situation and not only to criteria established in the metropolis. In addition, we have strengthened the capacity of associations to respond to situations of concern. The device will continue to work. We know – now more than yesterday – that the crisis is going to last, and I consider that with the postponement of the EUR 50 million envelope, some of which is still to be spent – it has only been used marginally at the beginning of the crisis, but it is now beginning to be used more – as well as the increase foreseen by the PLF, as recalled by the Special Rapporteur, I think it is pointless to overabundate at the moment. If there were to be a further increase in adventure, we would consider it, but the problem does not arise at the present time. Even if your starting point is quite correct, I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u100	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 774.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u101	It aims to increase by €3 million the budget allocation for Action 01 "Providing quality public service to French abroad" of Programme 151, in order to help our consular network. It is 160 embassies, 89 consulates general and 110 consular sections that – we must remember – the health crisis has seriously affected. I would also like to pay tribute to the dedication and professionalism of all diplomatic personnel serving the 2.5 million of our compatriots who are established outside France, and whom I have the honour to represent in this Chamber. Minister, in recent months I have been able to meet with the consuls general of my constituency on numerous occasions, and there is a need to make a point. The staff are out of breath, they sometimes come to miss, and many have not taken leave for a very long time. In addition to organising the return to France of French visitors abroad, the consular network has had to deal with the consequences of the health crisis for French residents abroad, concerns about their health care and financial difficulties related to the deterioration of the economic situation. Action 01, representing 57% of the programme, saw its appropriations decrease by 0.25 % in commitment authorisations and by 0.11% in payment appropriations. Minister, this decline is misunderstood in consular posts under stress in the face of the covid-19 pandemic. That is why I propose to direct an additional EUR 3 million towards this action. Thanks for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u103	This amendment was not presented to the Finance Committee; In my personal capacity, I will give an unfavorable opinion. As the Minister pointed out, the means of operation of our consular network are preserved by the budget. First, the employment pattern of Program 151 is stable while it was declining in previous years. The employment ceiling is even increasing by nine jobs, bringing the workforce to 3,246 – and we want the trend to continue next year. Secondly, non-Title 2 operating appropriations are up slightly – EUR 0.4 million – but the actual increase in expenditure in 2021 is expected to be well above this amount, as the consumption of non-Title 2 appropriations opened in 2020 is expected to be about EUR 3 million lower than expected, in particular because the crisis has slowed down the development of some digital consulate IT projects. It should be noted that Internet voting can be implemented for the upcoming consular elections – those that should have been held last spring and were postponed due to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u104	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u105	You're right. However, this Internet voting will provide some relief for services. Similarly, the establishment of the Consular Contact Centre in Nantes will put an end to the saturation of consulates by reserving only requests for field follow-up and local expertise to consular posts. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u107	My opinion will also be unfavourable. First of all, the amount of this action is stable, if not slightly higher than the amount set out in the original Finance Act for 2020. Secondly, the decrease in some appropriations is only apparent, particularly those relating to elections – carried forward in 2021. When the elections are held, there will be a carry-over of the appropriations that had been allocated for their holding and that were not used in 2020. Finally, the implementation of electronic civil registration allows for a reduction in tasks and costs. There is therefore no justification for the increase that you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u108	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 771.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u109	The law for confidence in political life of 15 September 2017 abolished the parliamentary reservation. Every day, I regret it a little more. At the time, I was the only Member of Parliament to vote against – perhaps because I was also the only one who had the chance to be re-elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u110	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u111	It is a fact that my ten other colleagues had been beaten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u112	The only French deputy from abroad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u113	Of course, I'm talking about the deputies of the French abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u114	We, too, voted against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u115	Thank you, Mr. President Le Fur. This removal, you must see on the ground, has been a stabbing for all these French associations that make France live and shine abroad and that no longer have any help today. At the time, Minister, you made a commitment to involve the French MPs in the new STAFE scheme. Personally, I have never been consulted or integrated. As a result, a key link between local realities and national representation has been destroyed. Worse: €1.34 million is lost each year. In the riding, an anger roared. Vital associations, which I could give you a list of, are not eligible for STAFE. In 2017, during a speech before the Assembly of French Foreigners, the AFE, President Emmanuel Macron even invited the Minister for Foreign Affairs to create "a similar arrangement" to the parliamentary reserve. Minister, do you consider STAFE to be sufficient for our associations? As the health crisis strikes the whole world, our compatriots living abroad need these French associations to live more than ever. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] It is these associations, in difficulty of financial support, that I would like to help through this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u117	This amendment was not presented to the Finance Committee, but I have the impression that we debated it at length in the autumn of 2017, when you pleaded fervently to scale up the grant envelope to French associations abroad. You then proposed to layer it on the amounts of the last year of implementation of the parliamentary reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u118	Ah, the parliamentary reserve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u119	However, this would have resulted in the transfer of grants to the "External Action of the State" mission to associations carrying humanitarian projects to the local population – expenditure under the "Official Development Assistance" mission, the funds available for which are increasing sharply. In my personal capacity, I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment: the €2 million envelope for STAFE seems to me to be well calibrated. By September 2018, the first campaign had retained 233 projects, or 74% of the files submitted, for around €1.8 million in grants. The second campaign resulted in a 22% increase in applications and allowed 279 projects to be retained, which is 56 more than in 2018, for a total amount of EUR 1.98 million. The health crisis has led to the postponement of the 2020 campaign, as cultural projects simply could not have been implemented. These funds have been redeployed to the OLES to the amount of EUR 1.3 million, as well as other associations providing health and social assistance to our countrymen weakened by the crisis. I would add that the timing of the 2021 campaign at the beginning of next year is in line with the proposals made by the elected representatives of the French abroad. The grant commission will take place in March instead of September. This will simplify the work of the posts, such as that of the associations which will be able to carry out their project over the year of allocation of the grant, which will be more budgetaryly logical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u120	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u121	Same opinion. The rapporteur said what was essential, but I would remind Mr Meyer Habib that I was responsible for the allocation of EUR 2 million, as he said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u122	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u123	I am speaking in support of Mr Meyer Habib to stress that, as elsewhere, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve was a disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u124	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u125	Each of us knows its territory, its terrain, can identify difficulties and support certain associative structures. We have been deprived of this possibility, on the pretext that a few bureaucrats in I do not know which office, at the bottom of which ministry, were more competent and legitimate in allocating this type of aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u126	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, SOC and GDR groups]] It was your first text, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! However, any mandate is judged by its first text. In this one, you refused to trust parliamentarians. Now you're reaping the results.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u128	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u129	I am speaking as a Member of Parliament for the seventh French constituency established abroad and not as draftsman. General note: I support all associations seeking assistance under STAFE. I know them, I know if they've managed or failed to get funds. It is exactly the role of a parliamentarian to lead citizens who take responsibilities to a justice of the peace – it is not me, otherwise I would be both judge and party. More technical note: the timing lag is not only a good thing for accounting, it also allows you to earn six months and have two very close campaigns. Those of the previous year had not yet learned that they had lost that they could already start thinking about this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u130	I call Mr Vincent Ledoux, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u131	Mr Le Fur, in my report of October 2019, I had given a clarification that could not escape you: the projects are not examined by bureaucrats but by consular councils exclusively composed of elected representatives of the French community abroad...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u132	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u133	... and without parliamentary intervention. I wanted to bring this little clarification to the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u134	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1052.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u135	You'll find it hard to refuse this one! The purpose of this amendment, tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, is to finance the common citizen fund set up by Article 12 of the Franco-German Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle of 22 January 2019 to the tune of EUR 1 million. This fund is intended to support joint projects of civil society actors, including citizen initiatives and twinning of municipalities – within the framework of ever-more interesting international cooperation. It is not intended to support large projects, but rather a multitude of small projects from citizens. The impact assessment states that it "is intended to make a financial contribution to actors of Franco-German friendship who are often excluded from intergovernmental support. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u137	The intention is very commendable. You had already tabled this amendment last year, and the minister then told you that funding for the Franco-German common citizen fund would soon be defined. Word was held: the Franco-German Citizens' Fund was launched on 16 April 2020, despite the health context. Its launch on the Internet was even a success. As a result, this fund is already funded, and as of 2020, it has a budget of €2.4 million. On the German side, the contribution of €1.2 million comes from the Federal Ministry for the Family, Women, the Elderly and Youth; On the French side, the €1.2 million envelope comes from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, €0.6 million from the Quai d'Orsay and €0.6 million from the Quai d'Orsay, on the 185 programme. Managed by the Franco-German Office for Youth – OFAJ –, the fund supports cross-border projects – for example, a sports project for women victims of violence, the creation of a digital platform for twinning or a documentary on family life at the time of the covid-19. For the year 2021, the entire French contribution comes from the Ministry of National Education and Youth: € 1.25 million from the "Youth and Associative Life" programme. It is therefore unnecessary to enter an additional EUR 1 million. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u139	I am all the more vigilant to ensure that the financing of the Franco-German common citizen fund created by the Treaty of Aachen is respected since I am a signatory to this Treaty. For the rest, I can only repeat the words of the Special Rapporteur. For the French part, this fund was initially co-financed by the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. It is now fully funded by the Ministry of National Education, but the amount remains the same. So we're on the rendezvous. After providing you with this information, which you did not have at the time of tabling your amendment, I suggest that you withdraw it: it no longer has any purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u140	Mr David, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u141	No, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u142	Mr Frédéric Petit, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u143	As Germany is part of my constituency, I can testify to the huge expectation of this fund. I also testify to the fact that OFAJ is made up of everything but bureaucrats: they are people on the ground who, for fifty years, have developed Franco-German in schools. OFAJ is a structure that works very well. His staff, whom I met fifteen days ago, are currently working on Franco-German projects in areas where there are not yet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u144	Except for teaching!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u145	..., including civil safety and fire and rescue services. They will look for civil society actors who do not have Franco-German reflexes to develop them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u146	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1519.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u147	This amendment, tabled by Mrs Josette Manin, aims to increase funding for the project on the sustainable development of the large green wall. Fifteen years after its launch, the project of a large green wall, whose aim is to erect a green curtain of nearly 8000 kilometers from Senegal to Djibouti, is at a standstill. An assessment report, commissioned by the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and unveiled on 7 September 2020, showed that only 4 million hectares had been built out of the 100 million targeted by 2030. However, time is running out: while the expansion of the surface of the Sahara by 10 per cent in a century, between 1920 and 2013, is a source of growing concern for the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, this phenomenon has an impact, with fogs of sand coming from the Sahara and the Sahel, as far as the Caribbean arc, of which Martinique, Guadeloupe, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy are part. The aim of this appeal amendment is to remind the French Government of the importance of relaunching and improving the steering of this project with the African countries concerned, as it is strategic for the overall stability of this region as well as for the whole world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u149	This amendment was not presented to the Finance Committee. I understand that this is an appeal amendment, intended to speak in public about our strategy for the large green wall, this multi-species vegetation belt that has to cross the Sahelo-Saharan band over 7,000 kilometres between Dakar and Djibouti. I propose that you withdraw the amendment on the basis of the explanations that will be given to us by the Minister. I recall that the Great Green Wall was launched by the Heads of State and Government of the Sahelo-Saharan States in 2005 in Burkina Faso. The United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification plans to restore 100 million hectares of degraded land in order to sequester 250 megatonnes of carbon and create 10 million green jobs. The Pan-African agency of the Great Green Wall, based in Nouakchott, coordinates this initiative: a recent report indicates that €200 million of funding has been allocated to projects on the route of the line, of which €50 million has been taken over by the African States themselves. Between 2011 and 2017, the eleven member countries collectively restored about 4 million hectares, of which 2.3 million were for Ethiopia alone. This is indeed far from the objectives, but it is still the result of the accumulation of pilot activities, initiated over 15 km wide in the intervention area of each of the Member States. We must therefore go further and faster, but before we vote for new funding, we must set clear objectives and establish coherent governance. In a forum I wrote this summer with Professor Mbaye Fall Diallo, I argued that the large green wall should be the catalyst for agroecology in support of local businesses and communities. Everyone, communities and local communities must be brought on board, to ensure the selection and monitoring of projects, to create employment in the informal sector and to direct remittances from diasporas towards sustainable investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u152	I fully agree on the importance of the issue, Mr. David. I support the need to continue strengthening the objective of the Great Green Wall, as the Sahel is a priority region for France and its development. Resilience of the most vulnerable territories remains a priority. We have provided ongoing political and financial support: since 2016, the AFD Group has mobilised €650 million to finance projects directly or indirectly linked to the Great Green Wall. In addition, the Institute for Development Research – IRD – also provides technical and scientific support to the Pan-African agency of the Great Green Wall, which Mr Ledoux mentioned at the moment. We will continue these projects and ensure that their deployment accelerates: to do so, all actors need to mobilize more to achieve objectives, which will be reactivated in the coming months, according to what the heads of State concerned say. The subject is a major one, but it does not depend on the resources of the mission that we are examining, rather those of the "Official Development Assistance" mission. Nevertheless, the Agence française de développement and official development assistance are on hand. It would be a shame if you would allow me to persifify a little, if you would ask us to reduce the AEFE's appropriations after having asked earlier to increase them. For the sake of consistency, I ask you to withdraw the amendment, which aims to reduce the action 5 "Agency pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger" of the 185 programme "Diplomatie culturelle et d'influence". I suggest that we interpret your speech as a call and vigilance intervention...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u153	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u154	...more than a technical intervention, because it would not pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u155	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u156	I have tabled the amendment in this spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u157	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u158	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u159	I do not want the review of this mission's appropriations to be completed without the minister providing us with information on the tourism budget. Vincent Rolland and I talked about it and asked several questions. The connection of the appropriations allocated to tourism to the mission "External action of the State" puts us in an uncomfortable situation: given the context and the cross-cutting nature of the subject, we must debate the tourism budget for the year 2021 here and now. Minister, can you make some announcements or, at least, share with us the Government's ambition to accompany companies in 2020 and support the attractiveness of our country as a tourist destination, as Atout France's budget drops?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u160	Mr Vincent Ledoux, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1075.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u161	It aims to take stock of France's essential partnership in humanitarian aid and support for people living in conflict zones, namely our contributions to the International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, which I mentioned earlier. I recall that the ICRC carries out missions, conferred by public international law through the Geneva Conventions, which are essential to the protection of the lives and dignity of victims of armed conflicts and situations of violence. The sharp increase in armed conflict since the beginning of the 2010 decade has led to a doubling of the ICRC's budget in ten years, from 1.1 billion Swiss francs in 2012 to 2.2 billion Swiss francs in the 2020 call for donations. As an impartial, neutral and independent organization, the ICRC is a central player in the grey zone of the post-crisis period, which requires strengthening the resilience of violent societies before major development assistance projects can be considered. However, contributions from donor States, which were all voluntary, did not increase enough to support ICRC missions. France has made efforts in recent years and has grown from the eleventh to the tenth largest donor, but our country's contributions have broken out. First of all, there is an annual contribution from the UN Directorate, international organisations, human rights and the Francophonie, not allocated and included in programme 105, the amount of which is stable, at EUR 7.5 million. Secondly, several contributions are allocated to specific contexts or projects according to widely varying amounts and timelines, from United Nations management, crisis and support centre, programmed food aid or the French Development Agency, as appropriate. The result is a high variability in the amounts of France's contributions to the ICRC, while the organization is seeking greater predictability in the funding of its main donors. The large proportion of project-oriented contributions helps to make funding more rigid, while the ICRC needs to have sustainable means to remain flexible and better deploy its response strategy, while responding to emergencies. The amendment aims to ensure that the Government presents an assessment of the ICRC's actions financed by France, as well as the funding avenues that will give more multi-year visibility and more flexibility in the use of contributions to be included in future finance laws. [[Smile]] It has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, but I am giving a personal opinion in favour of the amendment by our excellent colleague Ledoux.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u162	[[Smile]] In all humility. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u163	It is difficult to go against a special rapporteur with a gift of ubiquity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u164	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u165	In substance, I share your wish to strengthen France's contribution and visibility to the ICRC. We have very close relations with this body, which I meet regularly with the President. We are carrying out very significant joint support actions, as French participation in the ICRC increased from 19 million Swiss francs in 2017 to 35 million Swiss francs in 2019, almost doubling in three years. Thanks to the sustained action of my ministry, France has moved from the fifteenth to the tenth place of the ICRC's contributors, but you are right to stress the need for greater flexibility. The Committee expects us to receive more unaltered aid, a path that we will try to take. I rely on the wisdom of your assembly and do not oppose the drafting of a specific report on the subject. Mrs Bonnivard, I listened with great interest to the statements made by the two rapporteurs, you and Mr Rolland, on tourism. The current situation makes it necessary for me to focus on recent events: I apologize for not having been able to address the issue of tourism. You know that I have been very vigilant on the subject for a long time, as in my current duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u166	And already before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u167	Thank you, Mr. Le Fur. I have honourable witnesses who attest to my commitment. Beyond the interdepartmental committee on tourism of 14 May, which had been important, as you both acknowledged, since it had led to the mobilisation of 18 billion euros, and the interministerial committee on tourism of October, which took a series of measures that you have kindly acknowledged in your remarks, there will be a fourth draft amending finance law, which, after the statements of the President of the Republic yesterday, will strengthen the measures to support a sector which has suffered a great deal and which represents an essential national issue. My Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne follows, as you kindly recalled, all this very closely. I suggest that he be auditioned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u168	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u169	... maybe through a joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the two rapporteurs, so that the debate that could not take place today can take place, because it is an essential subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u170	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u171	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u172	I would like to respond to the excellent amendment by our excellent colleague Vincent Ledoux. The areas of conflict have been growing steadily over the past decade, so that the need for conflict has increased considerably. France is an important contributor to the ICRC, and I fully share the need for clarity with regard to the appropriations allocated to the Committee. ICRC was also a tool for multilateralism, which was essential. The President of the Republic has often reiterated his commitment to multilateralism, as well as the need to sustain it. I know that the reports are not necessarily what the Government prefers, but they produce excellent ones, which prompts us to ask for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u173	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u174	In this case, it would be appropriate to illustrate how useful the ICRC is. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The Special Rapporteur also applauds]] I would like to refer to the fact-finding mission on conflict-proof international humanitarian law, the report of which was written by Jean-François Mbaye. The needs of international humanitarian law can be compared with those of the International Committee of the Red Cross and the need for humanitarian protection during their missions, which are becoming increasingly difficult – as we are seeing right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u175	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u176	Let us give Caesar what belongs to Caesar: I was co-rapporteur of this fact-finding mission with Moetai Brotherson of the GDR group. We explained in our report that we would be particularly sensitive to the minister's thinking about creating a real status for humanitarian personnel. This echoes the amendment by the Special Rapporteur, Vincent Ledoux, which the Group of the European People's Party will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u177	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the "External Action of the State" mission. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u178	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u179	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u180	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for development assistance (No 3399, Annex 6; No 3403, Volume III) and the special allocation account for loans to foreign States (No 3399, Annex 6). Mr Le Fur, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u181	[[Ms. Samantha Cazebonne applauds]] Very good rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u182	The payment appropriations of the Official Development Assistance Mission are increasing considerably, by 50.05 per cent, making this budget mission the fastest growing one for 2021. A significant part of this growth is, however, due to the creation of the programme 365, "Strengthening of AFD's own funds", which makes it possible to abound the own funds of the Agence française de développement. We had planned to table an amendment to supplement this abundance of 500 million; We have withdrawn it, but we may have this debate at a later stage. Could you give us some details on the appropriateness of these 500 million and the timing of their allocation? Why these extra credits? Because AFD, like any bank, is faced with considerable prudential rules, which are more important than in the past; because the crisis had a negative impact on its outcome; because the increase in activity is reflected in particular in the renewal of the Parisian premises – let us make sure that all this is not overly expensive. The target was set in 2018 by the President of the Republic on the occasion of CICID – Interministerial Committee for International Cooperation and Development: 0.55% of gross national income was to be devoted to ODA. Not only will it be reached, but it will be exceeded. Like any ratio, this percentage results from a ratio between a numerator and a denominator; the numerator increases significantly and the denominator, that is, our gross income, collapses for reasons related to the crisis. As a result, we will reach the 0.55% rate by 2020 – even 0.56%; In 2021, we will be at 0.69%, a considerable rate that was not expected. We also respect the other objectives: more bilateral aid, which is a good thing; more attention to the nineteen countries that we have identified as priorities – eighteen African countries and Haiti; growth in humanitarian aid, in particular food aid. It is very good to talk about the climate, but for some countries the priority is food. Things are clear: as a result of the crisis, 150 million people will find themselves in situations where food will be the only subject for them. I am pleased that things have already evolved at your initiative; We were going from a very low level of food aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u183	Very low!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u184	I am also pleased that we have finally made progress on aid to WFP – the World Food Programme – as we have moved from 34th to 26th place. This is not yet the best, but the progress is there and WFP has been hailed, as everyone knows, by the Nobel Peace Prize. I would like to raise three thematic topics that are of great interest to me. First, the increase in official development assistance will continue as a result of the cancellation of the debt of several countries, which will intervene much more than was expected. I am thinking in particular of the cancellation of Sudan's debt, envisaged for 2022-2023, which will take place in 2021; This will have a significant impact on ODA. Secondly, we demand a considerable effort from our poorest citizens, who have been poorer in recent months. Like every effort, it must be accompanied by counterpart, which we must find in the migration policy. Our fellow citizens are very attentive to this. They see, and we are obliged to see with them, that highly aided countries are not only negligent, but also malicious with regard to our repeated requests for consular authorizations so that they may recover a number of their compatriots. Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont will return to this subject. Thirdly, I would like to address a more geographical subject. We could have talked about Lebanon, where France is at a very high point – you may be talking about it, minister; We could have talked about China, with which we may have to stop a form of naivety. But I would like to mention the case of Turkey: it is the third country assisted by France, with a considerable amount of 346 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u185	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u186	Yes. Let's be clear: 340 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u188	This sum was conceivable a few years ago or even a few months ago. For several months now, difficulties have been increasing with this country: in Libya, Greece, the Caucasus and Cyprus with regard to raw materials. We can't act like nothing happened. I ask this very clearly, not only as rapporteur, but also on behalf of the LR Group: we must revise our position with regard to Turkey, in terms of both aid and the presence of the AFD framework. I hope, Minister, that you will have very clear words on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] In any event, for the reasons I mentioned, the committee obviously gave a favourable opinion on this budget, which is evolving in line with the initial commitments made by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u189	Mrs Valérie Thomas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u190	The appropriations of the "Official Development Assistance" mission reflect in this finance bill a historic effort in favour of development policy. Our country had never been so committed and fast in favour of international solidarity. After a 14% increase in the Mission's appropriations between 2017 and 2020, the 2021 Finance Bill amplifies this increase, with an increase of 17%. ODA is thus the largest increase in public policy across the quinquennium. This effort is all the more necessary as it intervenes in a particular context: after twenty years of a trend decline in extreme poverty, extreme poverty rose again in 2020 because of the consequences of the crisis of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u192	With regard to the 2021 budget, I would just like to highlight a few salient points. First, it enables France to fulfil its commitments, both in terms of the amounts committed and in terms of the actions to be taken. These commitments, which marked a break in the declining trajectory of French ODA, were taken by the President of the Republic and reiterated in the context of the 2018 CICID. First, the announced trajectory is respected; The decline in our gross national income has not resulted in a fall in ODA credits. On the contrary, CICID's objectives are exceeded: by devoting 0.69% of GNI to development in 2021, we are even about to reach the 07% target. Secondly, commitments regarding the composition of aid are also being met: the increase in French ODA is mainly allocated to bilateral aid, an increase of 16.9 per cent, particularly in the form of grants. Sectors that had hitherto been the poor parents of development policy are growing in power. I am thinking in particular of the increase in humanitarian aid and the health effort, which has been increased as a result of the health crisis. In this area, France has taken the lead in the fight against vaccination nationalism, defending a vaccine conceived as a global public good, notably as part of the ACT-A – Access to Covid -19 Tools Accelerator initiative. However, I would like to express my concern about the weakening of the financing of the Solidarity Fund for Development – FSD. The Fund funds large "vertical" funds, such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Health, the Global Partnership in Education and the Green Environment Fund. It is financed by a capped percentage of the airline ticket tax – TBA – and the financial transaction tax – TTF. However, the crisis has caused the TBA's revenues to fall. For its part, the product of the TTF has increased considerably: the forecast for 2020 was EUR 1.13 billion, it is revalued to EUR 1.745 billion. The forecast for 2021 is just over $1.5 billion. One might therefore question the very legitimacy of setting a ceiling for the allocated share of taxes designed to combat the excesses of globalization. In the context of an increase in TTF revenues, at least 50 per cent should be allocated to development aid. This would be an even stronger message from France in favour of international solidarity. In addition, the increase in resources must be accompanied by a recasting of official development assistance policy, so that French development actors, whom I call "the France team", have a mandate commensurate with their ambitions. The French team are women and men, engaged in France and in the field; various structures – agencies, researchers, NGOs, local and regional authorities – united in a fierce desire to make our ODA as effective as possible. Two years after the presentation to the Government by our colleague Hervé Berville...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u193	Our excellent colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u194	... in its report on the modernization of the partnership policy of development and international solidarity, the reshaping of our development policy remains in the middle of the ford. It still suffers from the dispersion of objectives, the complexity of the institutional arrangements and the insufficiently strategic nature of the State's control over the French Development Agency. Finally, the increase in resources makes it imperative to improve the accountability of official development assistance, in order to encourage citizens' ownership of its issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Bérengère Poletti also applauds]] For all these reasons, we look forward to the draft programming law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u195	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u196	Excellent Hervé Berville!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u197	We'll listen to Mr. Berville!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u198	First of all, like all of us, I address a thought to the victims of this horrific attack and to their families. I thank and salute the law enforcement officials who apprehended the assailants. The world's health and economic crisis shows us, if some still doubted, that no country, no society, no citizen can today ignore the great global challenges facing us, because no one is immune; One way or another, we're all connected to each other. For the past three years, France, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, has made international solidarity a pillar of its foreign policy. Indeed, there can be no international peace or stability in a world where extreme poverty persists and inequality grows. For the past three years, our diplomats throughout the world, under the aegis of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, have been fighting in the various forums with our European, African and Asian partners, so that cooperation will always be the preferred option, in the context of a crisis of multilateralism and the withdrawal of nations from themselves. For the past three years, in this assembly, we have collectively committed ourselves to achieving a budget that is commensurate with the issues and strategic priorities that we have identified together. This year, we can only welcome the fact that the appropriations are again rising, for the third year in a row, with an increase of 684 million. With this budget, you also said, Mr Special Rapporteur, we will be able to reach and even exceed the target of 0.55% of GNI...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u199	It's artificial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u200	...dedicated to international solidarity. We are now waiting for the Policy and Programming Bill, which will provide this policy with a framework and put it in the long run, ideally in 2025. This law will also be the legislative translation of France's commitment to Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. This policy must also be part of a new framework, particularly with our African partners. We need to change the way we look at them, and build a truly partnership approach that takes into account the aspirations of African youth, which are diverse. Whether it is in Mali, Cameroon, Guinea or Nigeria, we have a duty to hear this young man who only asks to take charge of his destiny and to accompany him in order to meet all the challenges she will face. I therefore welcome the tripling of the appropriations allocated to embassies through the famous FSPI – Solidarity Fund for Innovative Projects – which rose from €24 million in 2017 to over €70 million, thanks in particular to the action of the Minister – one can only salute him. I am convinced that if this policy is well oriented and attentive to the effects produced, it will make a real difference for millions of people. I would like to raise two issues here. The first concerns the fight against tax evasion, which is very close to Jean-Paul Lecoq's heart. France is too often isolated in the extremely important battle to increase the mobilization of domestic resources in partner countries and to combat tax evasion. For the African continent alone, 89 billion euros elude each year: 89 billion euros less for the public services of these countries and for their basic social services. In 2021, France will spend €70 million on the fight against tax evasion, but we need to do more and mobilize our European partners to do the same. Education is the second fight to be waged, essential to me and to yours. France has increased its contribution to the Global Partnership for Education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u201	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u202	... as well as its bilateral share, but we need to do even more, given the international context. I am thinking in particular of strengthening support for education in fragile areas, which are undergoing a humanitarian crisis. Unfortunately, these are longer and longer. The next challenge ahead is to shift definitively from a quantitative logic to a qualitative logic, to ensure that the evaluation and systematic search for effects are placed at the centre of this policy. Much has also been done in this area for the past three years, but we know that we still need to make improvements. I am thinking in particular of the implementation of the independent evaluation committee, through which we will achieve greater transparency and accountability vis-à-vis our citizens. The search for efficiency will also involve innovation, as illustrated by the work of Esther Duflo, who received the Nobel Prize in Economics and whose return I am delighted to see. I know that his work will benefit all French development actors. With the draft budget we are looking at, its means and its objectives, France will have more influence to weigh and defend its action and its values at the international level. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you understand, the moving Republic Group will vote in confidence for the "Official Development Assistance" mission and wait with the same confidence for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u203	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u204	The subject of official development assistance is very revealing of the difficulty that parliamentarians are working with. There is, unfortunately, much to be said between the invigorating announcements of the President of the Republic, laudable ambitions, the opacity and urgency in which we work and the results. It is true that the current Government came to power when official development assistance was at the lowest, at 0.38 per cent of GNI. I would remind you that in 2010, we were at 0.5%: to welcome the increase in official development aid of EUR 344 million in payment appropriations, yes, but to talk about a historic increase, no! In fact, this increase offsets the drastic fall in this budget between 2012 and 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u205	Who was in the government?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u206	On behalf of the Republican Group in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask you, Minister, about a number of issues. The first concerns transparency. Members should have all the elements that make up ODA. They are colossal and go far beyond the strict analysis of programmes 110, "Economic and financial aid for development", 209, "Solidarity towards developing countries", and the new programme 365, "Strengthening the own funds of the French Development Agency". Our committee is studying one third of the subject of solidarity development in the budget. The health and budgetary crisis we are experiencing will have consequences for developing countries in the coming months. AFD has already taken this into account in its support to poor countries. The developed countries, including France, will also not be spared the consequences of covid-19, with a fall in GDP as early as the first half of 2021. However, let us keep the ambitious objective of reaching EUR 15 billion in payment appropriations and in absolute terms for next year. These are significant amounts, but we are still far from the OECD target of 0.7% of GNI. Such means must meet the basic needs of the poor: access to food, care, education, protection from the effects of climate change, access to economic development and job creation, and guarantee that corruption networks are not nurtured to prevent such means from reaching the people. According to the annual index of transparency, the verdict is without appeal: France does not comply with its commitments regarding the transparency of aid. As AFD progresses by five places, reaching 30th place, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs declines to 37th place out of 47. That is why the draft policy and programming law on international solidarity is so important. Unfortunately, we have been waiting for him for a long time. Beyond the programming of appropriations, it must enable France to improve transparency and to introduce external, independent and permanently available evaluations for parliamentarians and our fellow citizens. That is how we will be able to secure the support of the people. My second point concerns the distribution of the increase in official development assistance between 2017 and 2019: 98.6% of the increase in appropriations went to finance, among other things, the conditions for hosting refugees in our territory, scholarships, private sector instruments and debt forgiveness. It is not a question of questioning the criteria established by the OECD, Mr Minister, as you mentioned in committee, but simply of questioning the political choices of the Government that led to this aberration. The President of the Republic had rightly announced that two thirds of the increase in aid should be devoted to bilateral aid and one third to multilateral aid. It would appear that this directive has disappeared along the way. My third point concerns debt forgiveness. There is no longer any question of debt forgiveness, which would then serve other donors, such as China, or private donors. The last debt moratorium succeeded in this sacred union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u207	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u208	Nothing's decided yet for the rest. However, it turns out that last year the debt relief effect reached € 224 million for Somalia; For 2021, a debt-remittance programme for the Sudan would be planned for a precise amount of 4,426 billion euros, which is enormous and would bring the French effort to 0.69% of GNP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u209	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u210	The OECD's objective would therefore be almost achieved, but with a unique gesture, not substantive policies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Although it welcomes the substantial increase in official development assistance funding, the Republican Group will abstain. Indeed, the transformation of ODA should have been triggered much earlier in this legislature; the problem of transparency of policies and their external evaluation is still evident; the long-awaited guidance text for years is still not there; Finally, the increase in budgets does not sufficiently benefit the population for the priority countries; on bilateral and multilateral balance, the Government has renounced; France is following small projects badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u211	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u212	The appropriations for the Official Development Assistance mission are again increasing very significantly, and we would like to welcome them very much. As you know, the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Minister, has worked hard not only on official development assistance, but also on all the issues underlying development policy: migration issues, security issues or democratic issues. I am currently leading a mission with Alain David that is trying to link climate change with conflicts around the world. The revival of this policy began last year. The significant increase in payment appropriations this year attests to the compliance of our budgetary commitments. I would like to make two small mathematical remarks. Admittedly, many people view with a little contempt that the increase in our percentage of development aid in relation to our gross national income – GNI – is automatic, therefore not noble since GNI is decreasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u213	No contempt, simple observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u214	It is a fact that must be made, but it does not change anything: we have chosen this criterion of measurement because it is a fair criterion. It would be complicated to use criteria in absolute value when we speak of international solidarity: we give what we have. You have to be careful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u215	It's not contemptuous to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u216	The absolute figures are necessary, but if France is in crisis to the point of losing 11% of its GNI, it makes sense, according to international rules, that a proportional criterion should continue to be used. On the other hand, when it comes to debt cancellation, it is indeed a one shot: it is not an immediate action. But cancelling a debt suddenly removes a chain from a country, which can go back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u217	Not just how!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u218	Many of us have campaigned for debt cancellations; We can't always ask for one thing and the opposite. We must be precise and analyse all the sources, I agree, but we must not pretend that this would be false official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u219	It depends on how it's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u220	We are therefore moving towards global diplomacy at the height of the twenty-first century. I would like to mention one point on which I know that others are as attentive as I am: these are the boards of directors of our operators, which bring together all the actors to whom the draftswoman spoke. Around the table are mayors, NGOs, administrations or representatives of the primary health insurance fund. This is absolutely exciting and I would like these boards to become more political tools. I had tabled an amendment on this subject in the last two years; I dropped it off again, but it was cancelled. I would like these boards of directors, which do not have direct management, to be chaired by a person whose appointment would be political. We are sometimes accused of not moving fast enough, of not putting enough money; I think we must now wait for the law of orientation. All speakers spoke about it: it is becoming urgent. We don't put more gas back in a car that we want to overhaul. Whether it is Program 185, Program 151 or Program 105, it is necessary to frame a policy that is no longer a central government policy, but a partnership policy, a network policy. In many cases, I have the impression that, for part of the administration, the latter terms refer to a degraded central administration policy. No! It's another way of working. It is the way of doing diplomacy in the twenty-first century. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party will vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u221	That's good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u222	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u223	As I said during the examination for the opinion of this mission in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: official development assistance cannot be considered by ignoring the singularity of the year we have just experienced, where health, environmental, social, humanitarian and security crises have complicated the situation. The Socialist and Related Group takes note of the continuation of the path that must lead our country towards the goal of devoting 0.55% of our GNI to our official development assistance by 2022. Nevertheless, we are beginning to have some doubts about the adversarial movement affecting programmes 110, "Economic and financial aid for development", and 209, "Solidarity with developing countries": commitment authorizations are contracting, as they are down by 2.1 billion, or 30 per cent, when payment appropriations are up by 1.6 billion, or 50 per cent. And this does not take into account the accounting bias of the increase in AFD's own funds, included in programme 365, "Strengthening of the own funds of the Agence française de développement", for more than 953 million euros, which constitutes a neutral operation for the State budget. This double movement leads to a drastic reduction of Action 01, "Multilateral Economic and Financial Assistance", of Programme 110, which we do not think is appropriate in the context of the global crisis that we are going through. It is important for France to maintain its ability to direct funds managed by multilateral development banks; We will defend an amendment aimed at restoring, at least in part, those appropriations which have been withdrawn. I will also point out the gap between our country's desire to become a champion of multilateralism and soft power and the fact that our voluntary contributions to certain international organisations, such as the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) or the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which are highly sought after, do not match those of some of our partners. We will defend amendments aimed at abunding official development assistance funds through NGOs, and at strengthening multilateral economic and financial assistance. In any event, we are moving towards abstaining from the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u224	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u225	The 2021 budget for official development assistance is experiencing a historic rise. At the CICID meeting in February 2018, a trajectory was announced leading France's solidarity spending to represent 0.55% of GNI in 2022. The global health and economic crisis makes this fiscal effort even more necessary. We need to maintain volume growth targets, while integrating the deterioration of our public finances. This is no more, no less, than to fulfil our country's international commitments. We can only welcome the fact that ODA, i.e. programmes 110, "Economic and financial aid for development", 365, "Strengthening of the own funds of the Agence française de développement", and 209, "Solidarity with developing countries", is the most significant increase in public policy throughout the quinquennium. After an increase of 14% in the appropriations of the "Official Development Assistance" mission between 2017 and 2020, the finance bill for 2021 amplifies this movement, with an increase of 17% in appropriations. We are experiencing an unprecedented crisis which, let us not forget, is global. In order to respond to the international crisis caused by the covid-19, international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank mobilized in a timely, coordinated and effective manner. At the bilateral level, our assistance has been partly reoriented to support the most vulnerable States, particularly African States. In addition, France has negotiated, within the framework of the Paris Club and the G20, a moratorium on debt servicing for the poorest countries for the year 2020. However, our official development assistance policy still needs to be modernized to adapt to new challenges. That is what the draft programming law on development policy and the fight against global inequalities should do, which is still awaited in Parliament and for which no timetable has yet been set. The thematic and geographical priorities set by CICID in 2018 will continue to receive additional funding in 2021. That's a good thing. Thus, the eighteen priority countries identified – located in sub-Saharan Africa, with the exception of Haiti – will be the primary beneficiaries of means to prevent crises, combat the effects of climate change, promote gender equality, strengthen health systems and support education. The health crisis must under no circumstances make us forget the climate emergency in which we find ourselves. For example, the southern island of Madagascar is experiencing an episode of intense and exceptional drought: not a single drop of rain has fallen for more than a year, leading more than 1.6 million Malagasy people to severe malnutrition, despite French aid that is trying to organize itself from the island of La Réunion. Particular emphasis will have to be placed on health in 2021. With the commitments made prior to the health crisis for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, €50 million from the Recovery Plan mission, exceptionally in response to this pandemic, will finance, in addition to the 209 programme, health security and vaccine deployment schemes. As such, €37.5 million will be paid to the Access to VOCID-19 Tools Accelerator initiative, defended by the President of the Republic since 4 May, and strongly supported by the Action Together group; These funds will also help fund Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. In line with CICID's target of €500 million for humanitarian aid in 2022, the allocation to CICID is increasing by €82.4 million to €329 million by 2021. The three main channels of aid delivery have increased by €32 million for voluntary contributions to the United Nations, €30 million for the Humanitarian Emergency Fund and €20 million for programmed food aid, respectively. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – The draftswoman and Rodrigue Kokouendo also applaud]] The Action Together group will vote for the official development assistance mission. However, I would like to conclude by recalling that the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals cannot under any circumstances be optional. Poverty eradication, the fight against hunger, the reduction of inequalities, the fight against climate change, access to health: they cover all development issues in all countries. We must, together, state, private sector and civil society actors, redouble our efforts to build a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world by 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u226	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u227	The budget for 2021 of the Official Development Assistance mission, amounting to over €4.9 billion in payment appropriations, marks a turning point. It will indeed increase by 690 million euros, an increase of more than 50% compared to the finance law for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u228	It's not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u229	This major inflection is obviously in the context of the pandemic and the associated risks in developing countries, which are particularly vulnerable. In the long term, it also aims to break the vicious circle of underdevelopment, poverty and migration. At the budgetary level, this evolution is reflected in the creation of the programme 365, "Strengthening of the own funds of the Agence française de développement". While an unprecedented effort is being made in the 2021 finance bill with regard to the volume of official development assistance, there is still room for improvement in management. Indeed, in order for development aid policy to play its full role, the increase in its resources, which is a good thing, must go hand in hand with a substantial restructuring of its organisation. In a fragmented environment, with programmes often dispersed, the contribution of all development actors should be optimised as part of a clear and coherent strategy. The first point of attention concerns the priorities set. In particular, there is the question of conditionality of aid, because development aid policy is a privileged instrument to promote our interests and values – as I repeat, Minister, our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u230	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u231	In this regard, I would like to point out that there is a need for full transparency and greater vigilance with regard to beneficiaries. However, I do not think that at this stage the 209 programme fully meets these requirements, and that is a major concern for me. I am regularly reported, and I myself note, that subsidies are being allocated to Palestinian NGOs with more than suspicious links with terrorist and Islamist organizations. I have recently seized from you, Minister, the case of a 400,000 euro grant to a so-called Al Bustan socio-cultural centre, which is very troubled. Similarly, AFD is providing €232,000 for an irrigation project managed by a linked structure – listen carefully – to the FPLP, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a terrorist organization responsible, among other things, for the attack on Copernicus Street in Paris, exactly thirty years ago. At a time when our country is being hit in its flesh, it is not acceptable for us to be misled into programmes that are closely or far linked to terrorist organizations, even indirectly and, I would say, unintentionally! I also take this opportunity to express my emotion, sadness and solidarity with the victims of the terrible Nice attack, but also to express my anger, which you share, I imagine. Another key point of attention is that development aid policy must be an instrument to combat illegal immigration, particularly from Africa. The fight against this scourge must be drastically strengthened. Minister, the barbaric butcher who was acting this morning in Nice, Brahim A., was a 21-year-old Tunisian illegal who was rescued in the Mediterranean by an Italian rescue boat on 20 September. He had landed in Lampedusa or Bari – this remains to be verified – and had been the subject of an expulsion order in Italy. [[The Special Rapporteur applauds]] I repeat that greater conditionality must be established so that the beneficiary countries cooperate fully to stem migratory flows and commit themselves on the one hand to eradicate the root causes of such migration, including corruption or terrorism, and on the other hand to take charge of their expelled nationals. Finally, our strategy must amplify the coordination efforts of all development aid actors. In addition to NGOs, powerful levers remain in decentralized cooperation, in our research capacity, in the private sector and in philanthropic actors. [[Pierre-Henri Dumont applauds]] Official development assistance pursues a magnificent, noble goal of reducing poverty and combating hunger in the world. The historic effort made in the 2021 finance bill also makes it, more than ever, a powerful instrument in the service of our influential diplomacy. However, this instrument remains fragile, for the reasons I have mentioned. The IDU and independent group therefore decided to abstain in the vote on the mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u232	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u233	Apart from staff costs, the appropriations of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs for official development assistance will increase by EUR 344 million, an increase of 17%. In 2019, our country allocated 0.44 per cent of its gross national income – GNI – to official development assistance, up from 0.37 per cent in 2015. This proportion is expected to increase again this year, which would bring us closer to the 0.55% target set by the Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development in February 2018. This would be due not only to the increase in the volume of loans I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, but also to the renunciation of the debts of African countries and the contraction of our own national wealth because of the crisis. By 2021, we could reach 0.69% of GNI, which would be mainly due to an exceptional recovery of EUR 4.4 billion in debt to Sudan, provided that private creditors treat that country equally. In committee, Minister, you said that you would not satisfy yourself with a mechanical increase in that percentage that would result from a decrease in our own wealth; your goal is to reach 0.55% by 2022, based on French GNI as expected. We have noted your comments and of course welcome this approach. Beyond the target of 2022, we need to reach 0.70% of GNI, a figure set by the United Nations in 1970. In this regard, we look forward to the constantly postponed consideration of the draft law on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities, in which we will call for the inclusion of these commitments, as is the case in the United Kingdom. With regard to the method of counting the share of GNI devoted to official development assistance, Mr. Minister, you said that it was not you who set the rules, but the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u234	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u235	However, the OECD's leading role in this area is questioned, notably by Oxfam's spokesperson, who calls for "decolonizing aid". He recalled that the rules on official development assistance were discussed, negotiated and implemented by rich countries. He believes that this process would have more legitimacy if it were to take place in a system such as that of the United Nations, as the countries receiving aid and the civil societies of the South could then express themselves. In our view, this proposal deserves reflection, bearing in mind that in 2016, OECD donors allocated an average of 51% of their funds to companies from their own countries. While the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance mission are increasing in a comprehensive manner, we do not consider that the support for decentralised cooperation initiatives is adequately supported. The corresponding appropriations are stabilised to the tune of 11.5 million euros, while the piloting of land between local actors sometimes allows for more sustainable results, thanks to the confidence created by close human contacts between donors and recipients. Official development assistance had become even more crucial at a time when the poorest countries were strangled by debt and succumbed to the crisis. According to the International Monetary Fund, sub-Saharan Africa, tested by the pandemic, will need by 2023 750 billion euros of external financing, or 55 per cent of the region's GDP. While welcoming the introduction by the G20 in April this year of a debt moratorium and the recent decision to extend it until June 2021, the IMF believes that bolder actions are needed, such as reducing interest on debt or rescheduling all maturities. In this sense, we regret that during the first part of the finance bill, we were not able to increase the revenue from the tax on financial transactions, nor to extend its base to intra-Journal trade. This was the latest finance bill of the presidential term of office for a full exercise; It was a unique opportunity, Minister, to adjust the priorities of French aid, while increasing the revenues that feed the general state budget. Ultimately, we note that official development assistance has many, poorly prioritized and sometimes contradictory objectives. The lack of concentration on the most fragile countries and the importance of financing for emerging countries blur the message, which is not understood by our fellow citizens. In addition, the political leadership of official development assistance has broken out: this budget mission does not reflect all of our commitments, which weakens their legibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u236	So you're going to abstain...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u237	The increase in public resources devoted to development aid must be accompanied by a special effort of explanation, so that our citizens fully appropriate this policy and realize that aid is useful in more than one way. Despite these reservations, Minister, the Libertés et territoires group will approve the Mission's appropriations – anything can happen one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u238	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u239	We thus provide demanding but constructive support, which is an incentive to continue efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u240	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u241	Official development assistance has once again shown its crucial importance for the resilience of countries most at risk of the health, social and economic crisis. I regret, however, that the increase in its credits, in line with the trajectory drawn in 2018, does not take into account the new state of the planet. For the first time in twenty years, ladies and gentlemen, extreme poverty will increase in the world. Recently, by alerting us to this issue, the President of the World Bank called on countries to prepare for a different economy after the covid-19. This was to assume a little early in our ability to extract ourselves from the logic of profit, which dominates the world. For our part, we have not changed anything structural to our economy – if we do some things a little differently, we remain in the nails of a neoliberal ideology. More than ever, our economy is at the service of the richest at the expense of the general interest. Nor have we turned on international solidarity in any way. I think the two aspects are quite related. The repeated postponement, since 2019, of the revision of our legislation on development and international solidarity is a sign of a certain dislike of the Government – which was more prompt when it wanted to abolish the solidarity tax on wealth. And maintaining official development assistance at a planned level in a pre-covid context seems incomprehensible to us. It's like refusing to see the wall when you touch it. Beautiful ads, on the other hand, we have, if I may say so, shovelled. Emmanuel Macron calls for a "massive cancellation" of African debt, but this is only achieved through a suspension of payment and relief processes. The Government's investment in climate change has been growing, while in recent years the share of subsidies has been only 3.3 per cent of our climate aid, compared with 36 per cent for Germany. When we look more closely at projects financed by official development assistance, we realize that we are not at a paradox, to put it mildly. The use of this aid "at the service of our migration strategy" amounts once again to outsource our borders, as you have done by financing the Libyan coastguards, who have been guilty of so many abuses, through a European fund. The massive use of the Proparco agency – Promotion and participation for economic cooperation – which channels some funds through tax havens and maintains a high degree of opacity in its transactions, weakens the whole structure of our official development aid, since we act as a private investor. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we are experiencing this year, which is taking very worrying forms, must prompt us to review all the actions we support. While less than 50 per cent of the world's population has access to essential health services, it is imperative that France reinvest the social sectors. In 2018, less than 20% of our development aid was directed towards these sectors – the figure is still quite uplifting. Is it worth recalling that public services, affordable and of quality, are the first pillars of development? That they are the vectors of more inclusive development, which acts as close as possible to great poverty in order to better combat it? More than ever, the question of common goods goes hand in hand with the question of the future of public services. That is the logic to which we refer. In our view, the core of a development aid policy should be to support more human development, at the service of the people, which contributes to the reduction of poverty and inequality and to the development of education. I repeat that development aid is being diverted from its original meaning and away from these objectives. We are witnessing a kind of reorientation which essentially aims to develop liberal economic models and to support businesses, sometimes in disregard of the human rights that we must defend, especially at a time when we are facing jihadists and terrorists claiming Islamism. We must therefore firmly defend our principles, not only when we make France's voice heard internationally, but also by being consistent in the formulation of our public policies. I do not know if it will take a long time, but I once again call on France to refocus its solidarity action on the most vulnerable populations and to consolidate the rule of law throughout the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u242	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u243	The debate we had yesterday in committee demonstrated that, while progress has been made in the area of official development assistance, the shortfalls remain far too numerous and serious for Communist MEPs to satisfy themselves. First of all, since 2017, in terms of official development assistance as in other areas, proposing GDP targets is not a good idea in the event of a recession – far from me, by saying that, to be unpleasant to Frédéric Petit. We see it this year: the objectives no longer make sense. Fortunately, we did not pass the bill establishing a universal pension system, because the principle was the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u244	No, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u245	For the year 2021, we are approaching the famous target of 0.7% of GDP. Yes, but in absolute value, it is not at all satisfactory! This objective must be translated into financial commitments. It seemed to me important to stress this in committee: if we are experiencing a recession in our country, it is that the situation in the world is, as a general rule, very bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u246	I answered you on that point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u247	In 1945, we had the chance for a communist minister to create social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u248	This minister was still part of a government of national unity...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u249	It allows us to absorb the most violent social shocks and to treat everyone in solidarity. We must imagine the scale of social drama in states where work is not protected and access to health is paid. However, the trajectory of ODA for 2021 seemed to take very little account of the international urgency in that regard, which was very regrettable. Of course, the French state has helped launch some international initiatives against covid-19, but there is no evidence of an awareness of the urgency and overall budgetary stakes. It should also be borne in mind that some of the funds mobilised to combat the health crisis are being redeployed from other budget lines. We have therefore stopped or slowed down official development assistance programmes to launch new ones. If this makes it possible to make communication and to show that money is being mobilized, we are acting at the expense of other programmes, which is not acceptable. Communist MEPs are therefore not satisfied with the management of ODA in 2020, and they fear that it will go the same way in 2021. In this regard, I do not recall the lack of precise knowledge of the breakdown of more than EUR 12 billion of "non-pilotable" ADP. It's not nothing! Many of us have pointed out this problem in committee and I fully agree with what my colleague Bérengère Poletti has just said on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u250	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] I'm starting to worry...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u251	The Government's outrageous refusal to increase the share of ODA in the distribution of financial transaction tax revenues, as well as its refusal to increase the rate and base of the tax, which is one of the main sources of ODA financing. As I recall, the absence of a decision maker at the highest level and the fact that the director of the Agence française de développement is, de facto, the Minister for Foreign Affairs – who obviously has his own agenda – are serious problems. Similarly, the lack of a law on the coordination and programming of ODA, repeatedly announced and subsequently rejected, proves that this is not a priority for the Government. However, the period we know would have required a full-function minister dedicated to this area and a budget vision spanning several years in order to engage in genuine political work. Finally, French action in the area of official development assistance remains subject to the theory of "3D" – diplomacy, defence, development – which establishes the idea, though bad, that there exists a continuity between diplomacy, war and official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u252	There is still some consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u253	Communist MPs protest against this theory, which is growing in power among decision-makers and which is used to portray military operations as humanitarian aid actions. In the long run, may we try to put our humanitarian interferences into ODA? Let us remember that President Hollande, whom you have known well, Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u254	He knew him very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u255	... had proposed that Operation Serval be included in the ODA budget! The projected 2018 ODA fiscal trajectory was only slightly affected by the international crisis of the covid-19. The appropriations for this mission, which come from other budget lines, appear insufficient in view of current and future challenges, and the increase in its allocation is therefore at the expense of other budgets. That of ODA is non-pilotable and Parliament is unable to debate it. The Government stubbornly refuses to change the distribution of the financial transaction tax revenue, its rate and its base. There are no decision-makers in this area at the inter-ministerial level. The continuation of the "3D" theory raises concerns about the militarization of ODA. And I am not going back to the issue of tax evasion; My successive interventions on this point in committee seem to have convinced the rapporteur, a member of the majority group, of the opinion. In short, the Communist Members have sought out what could make them vote on the ODA budget, as they were invited to do in committee, but they have found nothing. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u256	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u257	In a world of interdependence – which I mentioned earlier – we need greater international solidarity to face challenges that, in the strongest sense of the term, are common challenges. Far from being merely an act of generosity – it is nevertheless – this solidarity is today one of the major elements of our collective effectiveness. That is why I will have the honour to present in the very near future to the Council of Ministers – I have indicated the deadline of mid-November in committee – the programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities. "At last! ", you will tell me. Yeah, I mean, but we can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u259	I will not be able to answer all the speakers in the time allotted to me, but I would like to remind you that I have spoken very clearly in committee on the question of setting GDP targets. I said that I was not for a percentage mechanics, and that we should not freeze things according to this criterion; I know very well that the objectives vary according to the situation and the evolution of GDP. The programming bill will therefore contain the necessary criteria and developments for official development assistance – as I say for Mrs Poletti and Mr Lecoq, who have drawn my attention to this issue. Also for Mrs Poletti, but also for other Members who will recognise each other, I would add that the text will contain a very extensive part on transparency. By the way, Mr Lecoq, I am a full minister, in case you doubted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u260	I didn't question him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u261	Full implementation, including official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u262	I doubted that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u263	Well, you're wrong. In addition, the programme 209 of the Official Development Assistance mission shows a very significant increase in the PLF for 2021. Contrary to what you think, Mrs. Poletti, I did not say "historical",...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u264	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u265	... but "very significant" – I prefer to remain modest – including in committee. In any event, let us note that the appropriations allocated to programme 209 will increase by EUR 344 million in 2021, reaching EUR 2.48 billion, which represents a very significant increase and is in line with the commitments that the President of the Republic and I have made. I will also concentrate on this programme, even though the Special Rapporteur began his speech by referring to programme 365, which was set up to recapitalise AFD to the tune of EUR 953 million. We will certainly have the opportunity to return to it under other circumstances. As far as programme 209 is concerned, I feel that I am consistent with the commitments I have made since I was full minister in this area. I had announced the strengthening of bilateral aid, a direction chosen in the budget for 2021 with the continuation of the increase in the resources allocated to AFD for project grants and grants to NGOs. These donations thus continue to form the central line of bilateral aid, with payment appropriations increased to EUR 733 million, which represents a very significant increase. For the first time, this is the largest budget item in programme 209, ahead of the one dedicated to the European Development Fund. This logic is likely to continue, as the commitment appropriations for AFD project grants remain above EUR 1 billion by 2021. We will therefore continue to work in the priority areas of health, crisis and fragility, gender equality, education, climate and the environment. Funds to support civil society will also increase, as will AFD's donations to NGOs, which are up by €20 million to a total of €130 million. I thus maintain the course of doubling ODA through civil society organisations – I would like to remind you, because I know that Mr Berville was keen on this development. It should be noted that the increase in the bilateral component of our official development assistance also concerns the FSPI, which allows ambassadors to initiate very concrete projects quickly, in line with Ouagadougou's commitments and in addition to AFD's action. Moreover, as Marc Le Fur and Valérie Thomas had the opportunity to stress, humanitarian aid will benefit from a very significant new budgetary effort, since I set the target of reaching EUR 500 million in appropriations by 2022. We are moving forward to achieve this ambition; It was absolutely essential, because we were leaving a long way away. Finally, the objective I had set to double, by 2022, support for decentralised cooperation will be achieved – I recently had the opportunity to announce it to local elected officials. I would also like to take this opportunity to provide some clarification on the bilateral assistance provided to China and Turkey – a subject to which the Special Rapporteur is right to be sensitive. Let us be clear, under no circumstances are these gifts that we are giving to these countries. If they are actually identified as recipients of France's official development assistance, it is only because of a statistical effect linked to the method of accounting for ODA, which is defined by the OECD. For these two countries, therefore, we are not talking about subsidies for development projects, but mainly about loans whose rates are in line with market prices. It is therefore not in any way a question of favours. If we act in these countries, it is because it is in our interest to do so, as well as in the interests of the peoples: I say many people, not their leaders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u267	For example, in our fight against climate change, it is a way to build partnerships to steer China's first global carbon emitter towards a low-carbon economy. In essence, that is the meaning of these non-concessional loans that we are granting to this country. As far as Turkey is concerned, a country on which I know that the Special Rapporteur is very vigilant, I have already had several opportunities to insist, before this assembly and in the Senate, on the need for political clarification. I will not repeat all my statements because I would miss time, but since this is an important and burning issue, I would remind you that, at the beginning of October, the European Council decided to devote the meeting in mid-December to Turkey. Requirements, possibly with penalties for non-compliance, will be publicly formulated and an appointment clause will be established for the verification of compliance. With regard specifically to official development assistance, I have said that I hope that there will be a clarification of the entire arrangement and that it will be communicated to the Special Rapporteur, so that we can all be well informed about our relationship with Turkey. I agree with your analysis, Mr. Special Rapporteur, and believe that I have given satisfaction on this point. Our development action is in line with a multilateral logic, reflected in particular by the significant increase in our voluntary contribution to the United Nations. This logic is centred on three priorities, the first being on humanitarian issues. The second concerns global public goods, the first of which is health – with the WHO support package and the ACT-A initiative, decided in the context of the health crisis – but also education, which Mr Berville insisted on in his intervention, and the climate, which we may be discussing again. The third priority is human rights. The draft budget we are proposing emphasises equality between women and men, which will be at the heart of the Forum Génération Egalité, which France will co-organise in 2021 with Mexico. We are also working to strengthen access to credit for women in Africa by developing the AFAWA – Affirmative Finance Action for Women in Africa initiative. Finally, on this fiftieth anniversary of the OIF, an important part of official development assistance will be devoted to the International Organization of la Francophonie and to supporting the main principles of human rights promoted by the Francophonie around the world. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are the few aspects of the budget that I wanted to highlight before you, thanking the rapporteur for her opinion and the Special Rapporteur for their contribution and support to our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u268	We come to the questions. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u269	As a second epidemic strikes us, I would like to highlight France's commitment to health in the world. The pandemic is global, and our country's action contributes to providing both expected and effective responses. Yes, France's action is strong and constant, and we demonstrate our ability to combine the various channels of official development assistance to multiply the effects of our action. Within the multilateral framework, our country is committed to WHO through significant financial support under the ACT-A initiative, which aims to ensure a fair global distribution of diagnoses, treatments and future vaccines, as well as to strengthen health systems. France is also committed to managing, on the ground, a solidarity fund for projects carried out in cooperation with WHO in the Sahel. France is at the initiative of innovative financing tools within the framework of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Similarly, the French Muskoka Fund finances projects in the field of reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child health in ten French-speaking West African countries, based on a joint framework of planning, monitoring and evaluation between the four UN agencies that make up it. Finally, as part of the support actions for the countries most severely affected by the covid-19 crisis, France launched in April 2019 the "Covid -19 – Health in common" initiative. This complement to the actions of multilateral and European donors is a priority for the African continent. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So my question is simple, minister. On the occasion of the discussion of the appropriations of the mission "Official aid for development", can you share with the national representative the acts of re-foundation of the multilateralism of health, of which France is resolutely at the initiative?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u270	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u271	Madam Member, you have said the most important thing about France's action to recast the multilateralism of health, of which it is a long-standing pillar. Indeed, France is at the origin of the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, under President Chirac; France is at the initiative of Unitaid; France is also an important player in Gavi, the vaccine alliance to which we will contribute 500 million euros between 2021 and 2025; Finally, we have never missed our meetings with the WHO, which we have supported since the beginning of the health crisis and which we support even more in the context of the response to Covid-19, since we have granted it 50 million euros. We have also taken the initiative of a very ambitious World Health Academy project in Lyon, in relation to WHO. The health crisis has shown the need to go beyond the strengthening of multilateralism, which was reflected in the launch by the President of the Republic of the ACT-A initiative, followed by other actors, including the European Union. You have defined the principles of this initiative, which aims to make health, and especially vaccines, a global public good. The question was raised earlier by Mrs Autain: in the short term – I hope as short as possible – when vaccines are available, we will have to be wary of a vaccination nationalism that would put us at a major risk without being effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u272	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u273	Indeed, if the pandemic continues elsewhere, vaccination nationalism is of no use. Global solidarity is therefore both an act of solidarity and a measure to preserve our own interests. Finally, we have a plan to create a High Council "One Health", because one of the consequences of the crisis we are experiencing is that animal health and human health are interdependent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u274	Thank you, Minister. Acta, not verba. Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u275	Our country is making an effort, year after year, to strengthen its official aid to developing countries, mainly in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. We support this policy, which aims to bring the amount of this necessary support closer to the target of 0.7% of GNI, making France the fifth largest provider of official development assistance worldwide. Only, Mr Minister, a public policy of more than EUR 10 billion per year cannot avoid, in a disconnected way, without being a powerful lever of the actions of our other public policies, in particular migration policy. There are now in France, at the bottom of the line, more than 400,000 illegal immigrants, whom the countries we are helping with official development aid refuse to take back on their soil. How can we accept that France donated 220 million euros to Senegal in 2018, and that, at the same time, Senegal has issued only 66 consular passes out of the 1139 obligations to leave French territory – OQTF – pronounced against its nationals? How can we tolerate that France gave 317 million euros to Cameroon in 2018 and that, at the same time, Cameroon has taken over only 50 of its nationals, out of 626 OQTFs handed down by the justice system of our country? How can we say that the number of French soldiers killed or injured in Mali is higher than the number of Malian nationals in an irregular situation in France, whose return Mali has accepted in recent years?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u276	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u277	[[Applause on the banks of the LR Group. – Mr MeyerHabibapplauditedalso]] This is no longer acceptable, it is no longer tolerable, it is no longer understandable. In the first three months of 2020, the number of beneficiaries of the AME – state medical aid – has increased by 5%, and for the first time in history it exceeds the billion euros per year. Minister, mutual assistance must go both ways: yes to official development assistance, but it must be strictly conditional on the return of illegal immigrants to their country. Why do you refuse to put pressure on the countries we help and to make official development assistance a real tool for managing French migration policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u278	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u279	We have a disagreement, M.P.: Let's see.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u280	Yes, obviously!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u281	A deep disagreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u282	When we cut off the credits for education, health, basic social services, who does that affect? The leaders of these countries? Not at all; But the people, yes. To call a cat a cat, creating the negative conditionality you demand between migration and official development assistance would deprive us of very useful levers, including for migration control. Thus, without development assistance, Niger could not be helped to establish civil status, control its borders and combat smuggling. I am therefore not in favour of negative conditionality. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the other hand, to go along with some of your remarks, I am quite in favour of a link between the number of readmissions and the granting of visas, because these are government responsibilities on which we must be demanding. Moreover, this form of conditionality is effective. I will send you the figures that show the relationship between the evolution of visa issuance and the evolution of consular laissez-passer de retour: they indicate that action in this area pays, in contrast to negative conditionality, which would give the opposite results of those you imagine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u283	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u284	Official development assistance is a powerful lever of our diplomacy. It is a way of presenting us to the world, of projecting ourselves there and of establishing strong and lasting relations with other States. This constructive approach is a cultural trait in our country, and it has always been an ambition of our foreign policy. It is therefore a force through which we do not have to fear the dialogue, nor the demands of the States with which we conclude agreements and partnerships; a force, too, through which we have no more to fear of asserting our values and principles in a world that is particularly upset and lacking in benchmarks. We even have a duty to defend these principles and values that are expressed in the democratic framework and in the name of the rule of law, which are now being abused or even challenged. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Ms. Cendra Motin also applauds]] I look back on the dialogue you had earlier with the chairman of the committee to ask you the following question: how can we continue to defend our democratic values and that of the rule of law through the policy of official development assistance?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u285	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u286	Thank you for this essential question, Mr. Member. France is fully committed to the promotion of the rule of law in Africa, which is an essential axis of our cooperation. The priority given to the promotion of democratic governance and the rule of law is set out in the report annexed to the programming bill that we will shortly be debating, and it is the essential condition for development effectiveness. Our actions are primarily aimed at strengthening and supporting impartial and effective justice, promoting transparent judicial institutions and combating impunity. In addition, we have developed an inter-ministerial "human rights and development" strategy to make development policy a lever for human rights defended by our diplomacy. This strategy also requires support for gender equality, which has been declared a major cause of the quinquennium, and for efforts related to education and support for electoral processes in Africa: in relation to the International Organization of la Francophonie and the European Union, we support as much as possible sensitive electoral processes in order to gradually make democracy a tool of political transparency indispensable to these countries. Thank you again for this question on the promotion of the rule of law, a central issue in France's development efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u287	I call the appropriations of the "Official Development Assistance" mission, entered in statement B. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1049.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u288	It aims to restore multilateral economic and financial aid to its 2020 level by allocating EUR 100 million to the "Economic and Financial Aid for Development" programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u290	Dear colleague, I do not share your analysis. I feel that, on the contrary, we should put the package on the bilateral side, that is, on what is managed by the department, rather than on the multilateral side. Indeed, if we set ourselves the Sahel as our objective, bilateralism is the best way to ensure that the funds we allocate will go well to the 19 countries concerned, of which 18 are African. You also say that multilateral aid is likely to suffer from this draft budget in 2021. Rather, the budget in this area rose sharply in 2020, I would remind you. Indeed, in that year, very occasionally called credits, which abounded with multilateral funds every three or five years, were very numerous. We must now return to the goal set in 2018: to focus very clearly on bilateral aid, grants and priority countries. Since these three objectives are consistent, you will forgive me for not being in line with your proposal. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u292	Same opinion. Last year's budget was an exception, as the three major multilateral funds had to be abounded. This explains the decrease in the appropriations you are asking yourself about. Mr. Special Rapporteur replied; I don't have a supplement to bring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u293	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1047.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u294	It aims to increase official development assistance through civil society organizations, including non-governmental organizations. The commitment appropriations transiting through NGOs via the AFD dedicated window exceed the EUR 130 million level in this draft budget. However, in 2019, the share of bilateral ODA transiting through civil society was 6.7 per cent in France, while in OECD countries, the share transiting through NGOs is around 16 per cent on average. While the figures show an improvement, the trend is not yet satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u296	You'll forgive me for not sharing your analysis again. We are significantly increasing the appropriations for NGOs in this draft budget for 2021 by about 10 per cent. The three main vectors of aid must be taken into account. The first is the World Bank, which is relevant for very large projects, because it is professional and based around the world. The second is the diplomatic network, which the Government has decided to strengthen; it must become more important, with the creation and development of the FSPI. The third is the NGOs, which we do not forget. In any case, if we want to give our aid a more political turn, to honour the commitments I have indicated regarding the bilateral channel, Africa and the Sahel, and to better link aid to our diplomatic and defence strategy – forgive me, Mr Lecoq for not agreeing with you on this point – we need our diplomatic network to play a more important role in the allocation of official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u298	What surprises me, Mr David – but perhaps you will explain to me after the adjournment of the sitting – is the contradiction between this amendment and the previous one. By No. 1049, you proposed to transfer credits from Program 209 to Program 110, and in Program 110, you proposed the opposite. You're hard to follow! In my view, it is more appropriate to strengthen Program 209. With this draft budget, in any case, we are strengthening, in programme 209, the appropriations for CSOs – civil society organisations – in line with the logic that I have announced from the outset. As we leave by far, CSOs now account for 6.7 per cent of bilateral ODA, as you are right to point out. My goal is to reach 10%; I had indicated that I would double that percentage and keep increasing it. As noted earlier, the CSO envelope will increase from 110 million to 130 million by 2021, confirming our willingness to cooperate with civil society. That's right, we're late – and we were on so many subjects! But the catch-up takes place. In particular, it is the strengthening of humanitarian aid, in which NGOs are heavily involved, which explains this increase in funding; We will continue this movement. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u299	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u300	Since you are taking a somewhat controversial tone, minister, I would remind you that you were well placed, under the previous legislature, to act on the subject we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u301	Yes, but not at all at the same post!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u302	Of course, but part of the delay is therefore yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u303	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1481.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u304	With this appeal amendment, we want to challenge the Government to the Green Climate Fund. It is recalled that President Macron, at the G7 summit in Biarritz, announced the doubling of the French contribution to this fund, a measure which he presented as extraordinary when it represents only 2 billion euros. However, in this draft budget, with €1238 million in donations and €310 million in loans, the account is not only not there, but also the French contribution is not entirely made up of donations! Above all, what is the doubling of the Green Fund if, "at the same time", more than EUR 100 billion of annual subsidies continue to be paid for fossil fuels throughout the European Union? Apart from the fact that the Green Fund is absolutely impossible to bear the brunt, France continues to finance "climate-incompatible" sectors. While we have noted that French funding for the energy transition is increasing a little, it still represents only a drop of water in the face of the scale of the necessary efforts. It's a form of greenwashing, pure communication ecology. Not only are credits too low, but they are also hampered by other massive investments in environmentally destructive energy and policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u306	Unfavorable opinion. The priority given to climate is affirmed, reaffirmed; It is reflected in our policy of giving and lending. It was defined at a time when growth was general. But we are living in a very special moment. As noted in the World Bank study, 150 million people live in extreme poverty. Their priority, forgive me to say it, it is not the climate, it is to be able to eat, day by day. I am pleased, Minister, that you have strengthened the priority given to food aid, which was completely forgotten three years ago – despite some developments due to crises like that of Iraq. In any event, food aid must become a priority. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u308	Our commitments are fulfilled. In line with the announcement at the Biarritz G7 of a doubling of the French contribution to the Green Fund, EUR 1.5 billion will be paid between 2020 and 2023. I would like to point out that the share of loans in the French contribution has decreased to 20%, compared with 37% before. It is clear that when the aid is activated, it is the part of the donations that is absolutely essential; She's more than doubled. If that was your question, yes, we are at the financing meeting, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic. In addition, mention should be made of other French climate financing schemes, which go through the bilateral AFD channel, of which at least 50% of the financing granted must have climate benefits. Finally, France is strongly committed to aligning all financial flows with the Paris Agreement objective and the 2030 Agenda. This requirement is reflected in all of our financial commitments and partnerships.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u309	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u310	The commitments are not fully fulfilled, even if the appropriations are not very far from the EUR 2 billion – but finally, I will not touch on this point. Against this $2 billion, it is estimated that in 2016, $825 billion was invested globally in fossil fuels and greenhouse gas-generating sectors. It's huge! You can see that there is double standards, which the French are not always fully aware of. We are announcing with drums and trumpets billions of euros, great investments in the green fund, but we should assess the real importance of these sums and report it to that of investments in energies that go against the same green fund. That's really the logic of arson firefighters! Public policies need to be radically changed in order to invest in sectors conducive to the necessary energy transition. However, you are content to give yourself a good conscience with powdering, while the general structure of our economy and production model is supported by the Government, in a productivist logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u311	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1482.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u312	Mr Minister, we have already had the opportunity in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to discuss a similar appeal amendment. It is a matter of alerting you to the ever closer link between official development assistance and immigration. The correlation that you are introducing between the two is part of the deviousness that I was talking about in my opening speech. Subordinating the allocation of public aid to the proper conduct of the countries from which the main migratory flows originate is a form of blackmail, a means of pressure. In short, you say to the countries concerned: "Be careful, prevent the departure of refugees, help us to keep the borders sealed, and we will give you money. » It seems to us that the allocation of official development assistance should in no way be subject to such conditions. I'm not the only one who says it. You probably know that a large number of NGOs have been alerting about this for some time. In our view, this is a rather serious failure of the Government to meet the humanitarian and solidarity objectives that should be assigned to official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u314	Your amendment has the merit of raising the debate, which has already been introduced by a number of colleagues. My position is diametrically opposed to yours. It is the same country, France, which, on the one hand, helps, and, on the other, is confronted with these migratory flows: these two hemispheres are not distinct! In one way or another, aid must take into account migration concerns. I have heard your answer on this point, Minister. However, when I ask them, my interlocutors, including AFD, not only do not have this link between aid and migration, but, in addition, it does not even come to mind – at least that was the case a few months ago, when everyone should think about it. If we help very poor countries, our country itself has become impoverished in a few months. According to information from the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, the French lost 10% of their purchasing power. And it is they who are asked to increase development aid? All right, but on condition that we also respond to their concerns! Furthermore, dear colleague, I do not accept the substance of your logic: you assume that migration would be favourable to the countries of origin, while it bleeds them, that it makes them lose their elites, the skills! That's the question! I come from a region which the minister knows well and which, for years, has seen all his elites and young people leave. One day, the movement stopped, the inhabitants decided to stay there and the region developed. Ireland's history is the same: it was when the Irish decided not to emigrate that the country developed. Migration is not favourable to countries of origin: look at their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u316	I responded earlier to Mr Dumont, who was addressing this subject but from a radically opposite angle to yours. I have not changed my point of view, I am against negative conditionality – as I said last year, I said committee. There could therefore be no question of conditionality which would be ineffective and would harm civilian populations. On the other hand, we can speak of a link, because, thanks to development aid, we allow the countries concerned to control their migratory flows. By improving their civil registration services, fighting against networks of smugglers, developing their most disadvantaged territories and improving access to basic services, they stabilize the population. We discuss this link on every project, always with the concern for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u317	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u318	The word game is clever. Positive or not in your eyes, conditionality remains conditionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u319	I've been talking about a connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u320	We believe that there is no conditionality, and the debate therefore remains whole. Above all, we believe that official development assistance should not be used to outsource our borders. It is a matter of principle on which we will not be able to agree, but we will continue to fight this budget after budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u321	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u322	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] I am delighted, Mrs Autain, that you consider that there can be no conditionality on aid: it is true for development aid, it is also true for recovery. The minister just said, there is no conditionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u323	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u324	No, that term belongs to the opposition. On the other hand, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its chairman are very much committed to the idea that, since aid and migration are two interrelated phenomena, we must review the conditions for legal immigration and the issue of double visas. This would make it possible to link migration policy and policy of solidarity with these countries, which, in fact, find themselves looted with their human resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u325	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1483.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u326	This amendment repeats one of the battles we are fighting against Proparco's lack of transparency, whose usefulness and methods of action we are challenging, but the fact that it increasingly resembles a kind of private official, who is moving away from the missions that should be official development assistance. Between 2007 and 2013, Proparco reportedly delivered more than $505 million to developing countries via tax havens; According to Mediapart, this would continue in 2017. Thus, it appears that the Proparco Agency is involved in the privatization of health and education in developing countries, which is a diversion of official development assistance. Perhaps it is consistent with the way in which you view official development assistance, but we believe that this is not the objective that should be assigned to it. On the other hand, Proparco's transparency is at stake, and we would like to have more readability and clarification of its action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u328	Once again, I do not share your approach at all. Development is not limited to major state projects, such as major sanitation projects or others! It also involves civil society and local businesses. When a young African moves from the informal economy to the creation of a real SME that will develop and create jobs, it is a tremendous development that we must applaud, and if Proparco is involved in one way or another, it is very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u329	Not in any way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u330	In our logic, development must also go through the business world, the creation of activities and the transformation of the informal sector. Perhaps the action of Proparco is not perfect, but the fact that it contributes to the development of a more efficient economy seems to us an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u332	Proparco's policy of supporting the private sector is primarily oriented towards the development of very small and small local enterprises, local social and solidarity entrepreneurship, in the countries of the South. All this is very framed: Proparco projects must comply with the efficiency criteria applied by AFD; They must address specific needs – difficulties in accessing credit, investment deficit – and target clearly identified development goals – creating sustainable jobs, access to essential goods and services. You're denouncing a lack of transparency. I'm going to try to make things clearer for you, but they seem to be clearer for all the actors. Proparco participates in our development policy by helping local entrepreneurship, without which there is no development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u333	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 358 and 1590, on the additional article after Article 53. I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 358.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u334	We lack data, which is a problem in that we do not agree on what we consider to be official development assistance in our country and what you consider to be in terms of France's migration policy. In this amendment tabled by Marc Le Fur, we therefore wish to obtain clear figures which correlate for each country, on the one hand, the amounts of official development aid allocated by France and its operators and, on the other hand, the number of consular passes obtained within appropriate time limits. This seems to us to be an effective way of seeing the evolution over time in the issuance rate of these consular passes and comparing them to the number of OQTFs handed down by the judge. As a general rule, consular laissez-passer requests are made only when they are reasonably sure to be obtained; When this is not the case, OQTFs are often set aside, which is problematic. A report on the matter would enable Parliament to exercise its oversight role.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u335	Amendment No 1590 by Mrs Constance The Grip is forbidden. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u336	[[Smile]] The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am of course in favour of it personally! It is not much to ask for a report on such an essential issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u337	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u338	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u339	We are in a particular year, a year when, thanks to your efforts, development aid is increasing as never before, but at the same time, the purchasing power of our compatriots is collapsing. I would therefore like to explain to them that official development assistance is going to increase, but on condition that they can also count on it! While some countries – such as Mali or Senegal, which are also friendly countries – do not play the game, others, such as Niger, are making efforts to repatriate their nationals, which means that it is possible. To have a minimum of transparency on this question, which will be asked of us by our compatriots, is therefore the least of all. They will want counterpart to this increase in development aid in conjunction with a 10% kiss of their purchasing power, and migration policy is part of development aid. Missing this subject would be a political mistake, although I understand that there are other elements that can help to make these countries evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u341	I am opposed to this idea, which could be seen as a form of indexing or provocation towards the populations concerned. I am therefore against a report on negative conditionality – Mrs Autain will not believe me, but I am saying it anyway. On the other hand, I maintain that there is a link between migration policy and development policy and, if Niger has a policy of welcoming its nationals who were in an irregular situation in our country or even accepts the return of persons who were in a regular situation, it is because this country has been carrying out, for a long time, a collective development effort that allows it: I myself have seen this on several occasions. On the other hand, I am very demanding that consular passes, OQTFs and visas be correlated. This must be a means of exerting pressure on the leaders of the countries concerned, who must shoulder their responsibilities, and I am, in this case, ready to act with great force. I do so on each of my visits to these countries, whether they are countries of departure or countries of transit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u342	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u343	I share your analysis and believe that we must not cut ourselves off from the countries whose people we help, especially in the areas of health and education. Nevertheless, there is the question of direct budgetary aid from AFD to these countries, which is not of direct concern to the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u344	It's very marginal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u345	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u346	I am quite surprised, even if I hear your reasons, that with this amendment you are advocating such conditionality, since this is a form of misappropriation of the philosophy of our official development assistance and it would result in penalizing peoples and not their leaders. However, I know, for having approached the subject with you during travel, that this is not your wish. Having said that, we could repeat, in a trans-partisan way, the excellent work done by our rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin and our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann on the possibility, for example, of making restitutions of the proceeds of the divestitures of poorly acquired property, as a follow-up to the bill considered in 2019 by the Senate. This is a work that we can do: we would thus complement the normative framework applicable to what is known as poorly acquired assets – a concept that, as you know, covers public assets and assets diverted from a State's budget and placed abroad for personal purposes. We can join on this point, but it is out of the question, as you will have understood, that the Group of the Republic on the move supports such an amendment, the adoption of which, I repeat, would totally divert the philosophy of official development aid in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u347	A report wouldn't hurt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u348	We know what it's like!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u349	Writing a report would not necessarily lead to conditionality of aid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u350	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u351	You withdrew the amendment you tabled on this subject prior to its consideration in the sitting, Mr Mbaye, because the analysis of the possibilities for the return of poorly acquired property to the State of origin of the funds has not been completed. I can assure you that the Government was very supportive of the bill considered in the Senate in May 2019 and of the findings of the November 2019 report by MPs Warsmann and Saint-Martin. The issue is somewhat complex legally, but the work is progressing, and I believe that the forthcoming discussion of the draft programming bill on solidarity development and the fight against global inequalities will enable us to carry out the approach we have taken today. However, the system chosen must be fully legally secure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u352	I call the credits from the "Lending to Foreign States" trust account, entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u353	We have completed the review of the Official Development Assistance Mission and the "Lending to Foreign States" Trust Account. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1048.u354	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 finance bill: review of the appropriations of the missions "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", "Governance authorities" and "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement". The meeting is adjourned.
