ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u1	The Speaker of the National Assembly received a letter from Éricka Bareigts, Member of Parliament for the first riding of La Réunion, informing her that she was resigning her term as a Member of Parliament as of July 13, 2020. Act was taken from his resignation in the Official Journal of Tuesday 14 July 2020. By a communication dated Monday 13 July 2020, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Ms Éricka Bareigts was replaced, until the National Assembly was renewed, by Mr Philippe Naillet, elected at the same time as she for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u2	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to regulate the opening of telephone calls and to combat fraudulent calls (No. 3176).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u3	Mr Christophe Naegelen, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u4	We meet today to pass a bill that is more than two years old. I am very proud to be able to say that it comes from collective work: on all the benches, those of the majority as well as those of the opposition, Members worked together to change this text, which initially contained six articles and now includes more than twelve. I would remind you that the original bill, which inspired all of the bill on telephone stalling, was that of Senator Jacques Mézard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u6	We have retained from this text the part of the penalties imposed on professionals engaging in abusive telephone stalling, but the amount of the fines can now be multiplied by twenty-five if certain obligations are not complied with. This provision is only one of the many advances in this bill, through which we create a genuine legal framework to fight not only against untimely appeals, but also against fraudulent appeals – in doing so, we protect our fellow citizens. Companies will now have to sign a ethical charter and commit themselves not to bother French and French people at lunchtime and on weekends, these moments that are dedicated to their family. Thanks to an amendment by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, call centres will also be punished when they use an anonymous number. They will have the obligation to present the company on whose behalf they call and to inform the consumer that they can register free of charge on Blockel. Many of our fellow citizens complain about the Bloctel government platform on the grounds that it does not work. In reality, this platform works, but it is not used. Currently, only 700 to 800 companies take this into account. The vast majority of companies that make telephone calls with our fellow citizens circumvent the scheme, hence the fines provided for in the bill, which can amount to up to 375000 euros. With the bill, we are strengthening the Blockel platform so that it can be truly operational. Articles 6 and 7 of the bill are, in my view, the most important: they aim to empower operators. Today, thousands of companies are engaged in telephone start-up, but there are only two hundred operators. Through a funnel effect, the latter will now have the possibility to block fraudulent numbers used to call – and disturb – French and French. We give them three years to put in place a national numbering plan and introduce interoperability. In this regard, I regret that we did not go further in the bill by granting ARCEP – the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and the Distribution of the Press –, as it requested, more power. With this text, we create the framework that will allow us to act against fraudulent numbers and that will allow commercial courts to make fairer judgments. A few years ago, because such a framework did not exist, a company could continue to issue fraudulent calls for three years. It will no longer be possible tomorrow: thanks to the bill, the courts will be able to decide and thus save time and better protect our fellow citizens. Article 8 creates a list of oppositions to the use of the name and shame principle as a means of pointing the finger at all companies that will bypass Blockel and will not respect the tranquillity of our fellow citizens. Colleagues, allow me to thank all of you for the collective work we have done. I greet, in particular, Nicolas Demoulin and Annaig Le Meur for their contribution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] This bill will make it possible to protect our fellow citizens much better against phone stalling and fraudulent calls. This is one of the missions for which we have both received our mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u7	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u8	As I was able to tell the Senate last week, I am pleased that the work of the Joint Joint Committee resulted in an agreement. Our fellow citizens were waiting for a balanced position to be found on the ban on telephone stalling. Too many of them, every day, and often several times a day, are victims of abuse in the area of telephone stalling and fraudulent use of overtaxed numbers. Beyond the trouble of tranquillity, these abuses can cause financial harm. The bill is aimed at combating this scourge. His journey is a fine example of fruitful collaboration between Parliament – all groups – and the Government, at the service of the French: the adoption of the text will make the fight against illegal phone stalling and fraudulent calls more effective. This daily law will have concrete effects, expected by our fellow citizens. In this regard, I would like to recall the consensual measures that you have taken, ladies and gentlemen, to significantly strengthen consumer protection against these practices – which I would like to thank you for. First, consumer information in contracts and in commercial prospecting will be strengthened. Secondly, the text provides for a ban on telephone call-up in the energy renovation sector, with the exception, which seems logical, of requests made in connection with the execution of an ongoing contract, heard within the meaning of Article 5 of the proposed law. It is true that this sectoral ban has been debated, but it has the merit of clarity and is expected by consumer associations. In fact, targeting this particular sector is a logical and necessary step forward. It is logical, because unfortunately, the number of problems related to this type of standoff is both abnormally high, compared with other sectors, and in sharp progress. It also makes sense because your assembly has adopted, on the occasion of the examination of other texts, important financial accompaniments for energy renewal, which must not be used to fuel fraud. Necessary, because this ban was unanimously requested by consumer protection associations and because at a time when we must make environmental transition a priority for the future of our country, it must not be delayed by the fear of crooks and unsightly companies. The bill contains further measures, which I would like to recall. Thus, the obligation for companies using the call-up to ensure that they comply with the opposition list is reinforced. The penalties are increased: they can be up to 375000 euros for a legal person in case of non-compliance with the system of opposition to the call-up. In addition, sanctions decisions will be systematically published at the expense of professionals. Professionals will develop rules of ethics or codes of good practice for telephone start-up. The conditions for the implementation of the call-up will be more strictly regulated by the determination by decree, taken after the advice of the National Council of Consumer Affairs, of the days, hours and frequency at which it can be practiced,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u9	The deputies could have done it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u10	... including studies and surveys, which, when conducted by telephone, will also have to comply with public ethical rules. The accountability of professionals will be increased with the establishment of a presumption of responsibility for those who have profited from illicit commercial prospecting, on the responsibility of them to demonstrate that they are not at the origin – I am thinking in particular of those professionals who entrust their telephone marketing to outside companies and who pretend to ignore their practices. Similarly, exceptions to the opposition list in connection with the performance of an ongoing contract will be better regulated. A more responsive and legally secure mechanism is in place to suspend and terminate the overtaxed numbers of indelicate operators, with a power of referral to the judge for interim measures by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, DGCCRF. Other measures concern the fight against the fraudulent use of overtaxed numbers: the strengthening of sanctions and the accountability of operators in the fight against the usurpation of numbers or, in Anglo-Saxon technical jargon, the "spoofing". Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is important. We all know that it will improve the daily lives of the French. To make it fully effective...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u11	Not effective, effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u12	... and effective, indeed, it will have to be ensured that it is respected. That is why, under the leadership of the Government, the State consumer protection services, the agents of the DGCCRF, will be fully mobilized to combat illicit telephone solicitations and will be even more so to implement the new provisions of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, the Government wishes to see the adoption by the National Assembly of the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u13	In the general debate, Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u14	Finally, we see the conclusion of the bill to regulate telephone stalling and to combat fraudulent calls. It's about time! Six years have passed since the adoption in 2014 of the Consumer Act, known as the Hamon Act, and the situation has since deteriorated for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u15	Yet he was an effective minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u16	The people most exposed to these untimely calls renewed daily are often the most fragile and vulnerable: it is mainly the elderly, for whom to be disturbed at any time of the day or evening is particularly anxious. More than four years after its launch, the effectiveness of Blockel has not been demonstrated. In 2017, one year after its introduction, the 60 Million consumer magazine revealed that almost half of registered individuals did not perceive any decrease in the number of calls. Surveys are also lengthy and complex, as some companies have developed techniques to avoid compliance with regulations, such as the usurpation of telephone numbers, the use of long channels of intermediaries, or location abroad. Furthermore, the inherent difficulties in the organization of the telecommunications market make it difficult to verify the identity of a company to which a telephone number is assigned. [[Smile]] The text presented by our excellent colleague Christophe Naegelen is the result of an in-depth work started two years ago. To achieve this, he had to show great stubbornness – the main quality of the Vosgians, as everyone knows. After many amendments and rich exchanges, the draft law was adopted unanimously in the Joint Joint Committee, reflecting the constructive approach taken by all parties. The Government was aware that the status quo was in no way satisfactory; The rapporteur and the majority have therefore worked together to achieve truly operational measures: strengthening consumer protection; aggravation of penalties for offenders; the obligation of the caller to identify himself, the social identity of the person on whose behalf the call is made, and the commercial nature of the call; or the name and shame, i.e. the publication of the penalties imposed by the DGCCRF and the names of the companies that are at fault. Once these measures are in place, their effectiveness will need to be ensured and, to this end, regular monitoring and transmission of information to the DGCCRF, which will need to be provided with sufficient means to act accordingly. We hope that this greater firmness will have a deterrent effect on some malicious companies. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The IDU and independent group fully supports a bill that solves the following problem: how can we further protect our citizens by being effective in the long term? This text, which our group has been defending for the past two years, offers us an opportunity to evolve a system that, by the admission of all, has failed. I invite you to seize her. Our fellow citizens – and Christophe Naegelen – will thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u17	[[Smile]] It smells like concord!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u18	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u19	In recent years, telephone stalling has grown to a considerable extent. We have all been questioned about this by our fellow citizens, who have been called at inappropriate times and days, with a recurrence of harassment. Their fatigue is easily understood in the face of an umpteenth proposal for insulation or change of insurance. Their anger is also understood when these purchasing pressures are exerted on their vulnerable relatives, particularly on the elderly or isolated. Their ras-le-bol highlights the wide faults of the Blockel device. Launched on 1 June 2016, it is now subject to massive circumventions. Its principle, however, is simple: to allow French people who wish to do so to register on a list of oppositions to the call-up. The numbers are stored there for a period of three years renewable, and it is forbidden for professionals to call them, under penalty of a fine. That's the principle. But we all know that, in fact, some companies do not comply with these obligations. Thus, although listed on the Blockel lists, many consumers continue to be targeted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u21	Nearly 1.4 million complaints have been filed by 280,000 consumers since 2016. Some argue for a more ambitious solution: for a consumer to be released by telephone, a priori he or she would have to express his or her consent in a clear and explicit manner. Eleven European countries have adopted this opt-in mechanism, which is fully in line with the general data protection regulation and which we are already applying to emails and SMS. The majority did not wish to retain this option, arguing that there was a risk of job destruction. We do not wish to give in to this blackmail for employment, first because most call centres operate from abroad, then because employees are often poorly paid and are subjected to conditions of work characterized by extreme pressure. The moderate approach of the authors of this bill is to maintain the current deregistration regime while trying to make it more effective. I would like to commend the work of the rapporteur, Christophe Naegelen, who has been fighting for a long time to bring it to a successful conclusion. Article 1 bis, for example, which enshrines in law the obligation for professionals to enter Opposetel in order to bring their telephone stalling files into line with the Blockel list, must increase its effectiveness. It also provides for a tacit renewal of the registration in Bloctel. The text of the parliamentary shuttle bans telephones for renovation work. This will make it possible to combat unscrupulous companies that promote state aid to those they call without having the necessary competence to do so. I do not go back to the discussions about the possibility of approaching customers with whom the company would be bound by ongoing contracts. I just want to draw your attention to the need to speed up the energy renewal of buildings, one of the components of the ecological recovery that we call for. As for the increase in the amount of fines incurred by professionals unaware of their obligations, it is hoped that it will be a deterrent. I remain convinced, however, that the solution cannot be left to the law alone. The fight against undue stalling requires a strengthening of the controls carried out by the DGCCRF. This objective is being undermined by the steady downsizing of its workforce. The same applies to the observance of the days, schedules and frequency at which prospecting is allowed: how can we ensure that it is carried out without real control capabilities? The purpose of the bill also includes the fight against fraudulent appeals. In view of the resurgence of telephone scams, I am pleased that measures are being taken to combat this phenomenon. But again, we will have to ensure that the tools created are properly applied. Because we share the desire to combat abusive telephone marketing and fraudulent calls, Members of the Libertés et territoires Group will vote for this text, which contains real progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC and GDR groups. – Mr Michel Zumkeller also applauds]] However, I repeat, it will not be enough to avoid the current circumventions and overflows. We therefore urge that it be carefully evaluated in the near future. Where appropriate, it could precede the strengthening of legislative mechanisms and means, both financial and human, to enforce the law and cease such practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u25	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u26	"Harassment, a scourge that rots our lives up to four times a day, sometimes at night": my mother doesn't have hard enough words to talk about phone stalling. "You know, Mathilde, we're disturbed at home – when it's not for a fireplace, it's for windows; when it's not for windows, it's for electric toothbrushes; When it's not for electric toothbrushes, it's for doors, insurance, triple-thick socks. » The very thing about calling is trying to sell useless things to people who don't need them. It is intended for vulnerable people, whose fixed telephone is sometimes the only means of communication and contact with the outside world; to elderly people, isolated, who were waiting for a phone call from their loved ones and who, instead of hearing a familiar and reassuring voice, fall on a robotic or rushed voice that sums them up buying the latest fashionable gadget – when it's not just a scam. The expression "telephone stalling" you use is an euphemism: it is, in reality, the market that interferes in all aspects of our life, to our home, to our privacy, to late hours. It is the market that attacks the tranquillity of citizens, which is addressed to them as to eternal consumers, at any hour of the day or night. Behind the scenes, it's a social aberration. The outsourced call centres are the scene of this human waste. There are often thousands of employees on the other side of the Mediterranean, paid for a misery to call strangers frantically and sell them things at all costs. We meet employees under pressure, who are asked to call, call, call faster, who are insulted on the phone, to whom we hang up on the nose throughout the day. Constantly controlled, they live under the dictatorship of the figure: their work is translated into statistics, performance, daily reporting. What is the meaning of these jobs, while nine out of ten French people say they are out of touch with the phone? The skills and qualifications of these employees would be better used elsewhere. Their profession is the archetype of useless and even harmful employment, which produces ill-being. As David Graeber says, "whole populations... spend their entire professional life performing tasks they secretly think they are not really right to be. This situation causes profound moral and spiritual damage. It is a scar that sweeps away our collective soul." "But, at least, it creates jobs! You will answer me – without ever questioning the vision of the world to which these jobs contribute. We can create millions of useful jobs by operating a true ecological and solidarity bifurcation. Telephone stalling, on the other hand, is not only a social aberration, but also an ecological aberration. Selling useless things has never been as far apart as it is today from the time. A harmful activity, which disturbs the French in their daily lives, carried out by employees often ill-treated and costly ecologically: here you have all the reasons to prohibit such a practice. However, you prefer to grant a stay to the market. With you, it's the incentive rather than the ban. We are used to it: you did the same thing to us during the review of the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy. We then proposed to reverse the current principle so that only those who have joined a "Yes ad" on their mailbox could receive advertising. But you had already preferred to leave the hand to companies – it is true that it would be a shame to deprive citizens of an afternoon of reading advertising brochures... The truth is, no one likes to pick up the phone. However, from this point of view, what is the actual change in the bill? Will it allow our loved ones to stop being harassed by commercial calls? No: they will always receive untimely calls, but they will be presented with the steps to be taken if they are not to be solicited. Companies will even have a code of ethics and a code of good practice. And it doesn't matter that harassed people may not be comfortable with the procedures to follow, that they don't have the courage to perform them, or that the Blockel device itself is dysfunctional. You protect the interest of call centres and make citizens take responsibility for the steps they take: what progress! Telephone stalling is the archetype of the vacuum society, where the market sphere swallows everything on its way by using the means of communication that connect us to those we love. We do not want this civilization. We do not want these disincarnate, inauthentic interactions, which aim only to feed businesses. No one wants to be treated as a means, as a buyer, rather than as a human being. A practice that produces pain at work and that no one wants to do is not controlled by measuring instruments: it is prohibited. This is the very principle of politics as a way of organizing our collective life. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] The group of La France insoubted will therefore abstain from voting on the text, until one day, perhaps, you are on the side of the citizens rather than the business side.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u27	Mrs Motin applauds: I don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u28	Such courageous abstention is worth yours...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u29	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u30	I thank the agents of the National Assembly who take care to clean our microphones between each intervention. Stop phone harassment! Because you have to call things by their name: when you receive dozens of calls a day, when the phone rings at meal time, during nap, and even at night, it is no longer a simple "pulling": it is the very definition of moral harassment. I no longer count, in the Deux-Sèvres, the incoming call records brought to my permanence and the ras-le-bol testimonies of the inhabitants. Things had calmed down during confinement, but harassment resumed. And it has serious consequences, on mental health, on family and social relations and on the very safety of people. Let me stress this last point. Indeed, people don't pick up any more, they don't have a phone to be constantly worried about: very concretely, this means that isolated elderly people become unreachable; Because of the power of the ringing of the phone, they cut it off and lock itself in total isolation. It is their loved ones, their nurses, their home helpers, their doctors who can no longer reach them. In the Republic, everyone has the right to tranquillity; everyone has the right to privacy; Everyone has the right not to be disturbed in an untimely manner at home. The consumerist intrusion at home makes the fight against telephone harassment an emblematic subject of the ecology of everyday life, of ecology for all and for all that we defend. Yes, that's enough! We must break with this consumerist society without rules, without limits, which treats citizens as consumers 24 hours a day, non-stop, even when they are at home. Just now, the Prime Minister referred to the public impotence which is the bedrock of the discredit of politics and which would be a problem of execution, but in many cases this problem stems from a lack of political will, clarity, coherence and courage in the laws passed here. The text before us is a good example: governments and successive majorities did not want to solve the problem of telephone harassment. There has been Bloctel – a failure – and now there is this bill. A clear and ambitious text could have been voted unanimously, as the issue goes beyond political divisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u32	You're suggesting that we frame the call, but what we want is to put an end to it – because we believe that the very meaning of politics is to solve people's daily problems, and that we need to set limits to the overconsumption society. Throughout the parliamentary debates, we have proposed a clear principle: a ban on the opening of the market, unless the contract is in progress and consent is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u34	While, as part of the GDPR, the consent principle applies to emails and SMS, you have refused to apply it to telephone calls.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u36	Clear and explicit consent is the only consistent rule. Why would what applies to emails and text messages not apply to the fixed phone, which is much more intrusive? Today, as yesterday, the interests of call centres are clearly stronger than the right to tranquillity. We regret this missed opportunity. We recognize and welcome the progress achieved through the parliamentary debate, against fraud or telephoning in the field of energy renewal and renewable energy, which represents a substantial part of the complaints and undermines the image of a sector essential to ecological transformation. Nevertheless, we regret that the text stops in the middle of the ford, and that it does not apply the same rule to all sectors. If one provision has the merit of clarity for that of energy renovation, why would it not have it for others? Unfortunately, this is a flaw in the text. There is much to bet that, in the coming months, we will still receive, in our ridings, testimonies from over-inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u37	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u38	That is why the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will abstain from the final text of the CMP. To citizens, citizens and consumer associations, we say that the fight against telephone harassment continues: our group has tabled a bill for sobriety, which contains provisions on combating consumerism and advertising, and which introduces the principle of consent in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u39	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u40	We can welcome the fact that the fight against unwanted and abusive telephone stalling, which is often discussed in this House, is the subject of a consensus between the two Assemblies, which gives rise to the discussion this evening of the text of the Joint Joint Committee. We must pay tribute to the excellent work done by Senator André Reichardt and our colleague Christophe Naegelen, an obstinate Member of Parliament for the Vosges!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u41	Certainly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u42	We are all regularly questioned by fellow citizens who are exasperated by untimely calls, at lunchtime or late in the evening, several times a day, and by people, sometimes elderly, in distress for having accepted too quickly the tempting offer of an unprecautionous seller – while at these hours of the day, everyone aspires to be quiet at home. These unwanted calls have become a source of anxiety or exasperation for our fellow citizens. To protect them from these practices, we created the Pacitel list, under the mandate of Nicolas Sarkozy, and then transformed it into Bloctel, under the mandate of François Hollande. However, the crowding of people on these lists continues, while the dissatisfaction and exasperation of the French continues to increase – to such an extent that some no longer connect their fixed phone, for fear of being disturbed by a new provider selling them an umpteenth boiler at 1 euro. It's not a solution! The Senate and the National Assembly therefore had the wisdom to agree on a text to better frame the telephone stalling. They also had the wisdom to remove the unique call indicator provided for by the original project for telephone operators: it was a counter-productive measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u43	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u44	...because it could only have applied to call centres located in France. It also required all companies, including SMEs, to use this number to approach customers. For any call, therefore, a small business could not have used its telephone line and would have been forced to pass through a specific number, and probably by an outside provider. We welcome the ban on telephoning for energy-saving work or for renewable energy equipment. In this area, however, there is probably a need to go even further in terms of supervision and to include all energy devices and door-to-door stalling. In February 2020, the Energy Ombudsman launched an appeal to the public authorities after having found a significant increase in disputes over unfair marketing: he was seized 1883 times in 2019, compared with 1416 in 2018. Telephone stalling is not the only issue: many people are unmarketed at home for the installation of photovoltaic panels or the change of a boiler or windows; They feel riddled by fiery promises, which cause many disputes. We are pleased that the burden of proof is now the responsibility of the professional who took advantage of the commercial stalling. The provisions of the text would be more effective, as speakers would be encouraged to comply with the code of conduct that their profession would have to put in place once the text had been adopted. The Action Together Group also supports the important provisions to empower operators: suspension of fraudulent phone numbers, and prohibition for fraudsters to be assigned new value-added service numbers for one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u46	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The CMP resulted in a balanced text. It will not, of course, solve the problems of telephone stalling and fraudulent calls definitively, but it has at least the advantage of laying down a binding and coherent legislative framework. We very much hope that stakeholders will become aware of the ethical objectives to which they must pursue, and that, as the Minister Delegate has indicated, the DGCCRF will carry out the necessary controls to enforce this text. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u47	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u48	Almost two years after it was tabled, in October 2018, on the Bureau of the National Assembly, the bill of our colleague Christophe Naegelen, aimed at regulating the telephone lock-up and combating fraudulent calls, was adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, meeting on 1 July. The members of the committee have reached agreement on a text which we consider insufficient. Since the first reading in December 2018, the debates have certainly made some progress: the creation of a telephone code to identify the commercial nature of calls is certainly a step forward, which will relieve those who hesitate to pick up their phone for fear of being victims of untimely stalls. We are concerned, however, that these measures are not enough to guarantee the tranquillity of older people who, for fear of falling on insistent and indelicate gaiters, do not even pick up when it comes to friendly or family calls. While complaints about telephone calls by some companies have been increasing since 2017, the sectoral ban on calls from platforms or operators specializing in the sale of equipment and the conduct of work for housing or energy saving is a significant step forward. Thus, according to the Energy Info barometer, 61% of French people reported in 2019 that they had been solicited by an abusive start-up aimed at making them subscribe to a commercial offer. An exception will be possible, however, since operators with whom consumers are under contract will be able to continue to contact them. The obligation of representatives and professionals to identify themselves at the beginning of the conversation also goes in the right direction, as well as the fixing by decree of the days, schedules and frequency at which unsolicited commercial telephone prospecting may be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u49	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u50	However, the text does not draw all the consequences of the failure of the Blockel system introduced by the Hamon Law of 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u51	[[Smile]] An excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u52	A survey conducted in 2017 by the UFC-Que choix association pointed out that 82% of Bloctel's registrants did not see a decrease in the number of commercial calls, which was sometimes even increasing. This requires not only strengthening the sanctions regime, as proposed in the text, but also opting for a system of prior consent for telephone stalling. Such a regime is required for e-mails and text messages: why wouldn't it be for telephone calls, which represent an intrusion into the domestic and intimate space of individuals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u54	The argument before us is employment, with the sector employing some 60000 people in France. It is curious that those who claim to protect employment care so little about repatriating the majority of job openings in France, and that they do so little about the quality of these jobs in terms of pay and working conditions. It would be more honest to say that some people's business is more important to them than the right not to be bothered at any time at home – unbearable intrusion, especially for those who have personal problems or are going through painful events. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] Last January, consumer associations, such as UFC-Que choix, launched a petition to ask, purely and simply, for the end of any call-up: it collected 450,000 signatures in a few weeks and fed the main advances of this text. We could therefore see this as a first step in the fight against the scourge of shunting, but we remain committed to the principle of prior consent, which already prevails in Germany and in some ten European countries. Therefore, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u55	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u56	This is a missed opportunity, Mr. Bruneel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u57	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u58	Since the tabling of the bill by our colleague Christophe Naegelen, 18 months ago, a single objective has guided us: to give the French and the French a little peace, at home, in their daily lives, by fighting against certain telephone calls that have become unbearable. To do this, our work has been to determine precisely the nature of these calls. However, in analysing the resulting complaints, we quickly found that more than 90 per cent of them were illegal, outlawed. Prohibiting telephone stalling would therefore not solve this problem in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u60	Unlawful appeals, however, must be prevented. In order to do so, the sanctions should be dealt with, by increasing them very strongly – the rapporteur proposed that they be multiplied by twenty-five, with fines of up to EUR 375000 for a legal person – and that the operators be held responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u61	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u62	It is up to them to block, upstream, illegal calls, most of which are made from abroad by robots. To this end, the controls of CRFB officers will be strengthened. This text contains many other advances, particularly with regard to the transparency of appeals. In this way, we considerably increase the amount of information that the trader must provide to the consumer during a marketing process. Transparency will also concern sanctions, with the use of name and shame. Protecting the consumer also means intervening on contracts obtained falsely or by taking advantage of the weakness of some. To this end – and this is pleased – the text provides for the automatic nullity of contracts obtained in violation of the provisions governing the call-up. Finally, the deputies of the majority, as well as the Government – notably the deputy minister, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Emmanuelle Wargon and Julien Denormandie – wanted to ban telephone opening in the field of energy renovation. It is in this sector that there are the largest number of complaints not only about telephone calls, but also about the completion of the work that follows them. This measure was essential for consumer protection as well as for the credibility of environmental policies. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As the rapporteur pointed out, many colleagues have worked on this bill; I would like to pay special tribute to the remarkable work of Annaig Le Meur, as well as to the work of all the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. This text has also been enriched by our colleagues in this chamber. I think he will give a little peace to the French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u63	Let's hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u64	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u65	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u66	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I'm tempted to say, "Come on, no grudge! On the occasion of a parliamentary niche of the Republicans Group, I had the honour of defending in June 2018 a text concerning the telephone lock-up, and I remember, Madam Deputy Minister, that Ms. Gény-Stephann, who preceded you here at the time, was completely beside the issue during the debates. So tonight we're talking about something that I care about. Many colleagues have already said this: telephone stalling is a real scourge. Since the failure of the Blockel system introduced by the Hamon Act was patent, it was necessary to legislate again. Jacques Mézard, as well as my colleague for Vittel, in the Vosges, had also, at another time, tabled a bill on the subject. If there have been so many proposals for untimely telephoning, it is simply a matter of common sense and that we in our constituencies are often seized of this problem by our fellow citizens. I will recall four points that were included in my bill. First of all, it was mentioned by our colleague Bruneel, that consumers must agree to the stand-off – what we call opt-in. This system works very well in many countries, and not only in Europe; it is to allow consumers to give their consent to the pick-up. The second point was the need for the gaiter to identify his/her identity and to indicate which company he/she is a member of. The third is the creation of a unique indicator that appears on the phone screen when a stall structure calls. Finally, the question of sanctions was raised: the bill provided for up to €300,000 in fines. None of this has been retained. In this text, you are content to ban the call-up for energy renovation, without even making any difference between the large company that solicits hundreds or even thousands of people to sell its products and the small PMI-SME in your constituency that uses its customer file, for example to showcase a new product in the field of insulation. It is really a shame not to have made a difference between the two cases. Unfortunately, all these small businesses will no longer be able to ask our fellow citizens to sell their products. However, I believed that energy renewal was a priority of the Government and that, in the current context, it was necessary to support the efforts that our fellow citizens must make in this regard in order to serve the cause that we all stand for. I had also referred, through an amendment, to the issue of time slots. Indeed, all our fellow citizens tell us that they are often disturbed early in the morning, at lunchtime or late in the evening. It is also that which, on a daily basis, exceeds them. You are referring us, Madam Minister Delegate, to a decree – as if Members were not able to define themselves the times to which we can call our fellow citizens! Again, it is a shame not to have legislated on this issue. Of course, sanctions will be more dissuasive; It's a good point – you have to recognize it. However, I will call this bill a piece of legislation: once we have gone beyond environmental issues and most of our fellow citizens have protected their homes and put the package, if you will allow me to speak about energy renewal, other questions will arise. Other areas will be involved, and we will have to legislate again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughs]] If the progress made in this bill is already a start, I think we will have the opportunity to improve the mechanism at a later stage – perhaps in another legislature, on the occasion of a political alternation that I hope with all my heart? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – "Oh! What a shame! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the meantime, the Republican Group will abstain from voting on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u67	Your colleagues The Republicans of the Senate have been more open!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u68	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u69	As previous speakers have pointed out, we have all been alerted, in our constituencies, by our fellow citizens about incessant, unwanted and aggressive telephone calls offering them new roofs, new boilers, another mutual, telephone subscriptions or television offers on the Internet. Some companies do not hesitate to approach almost nine out of ten Frenchmen every day, in a perfectly illegal manner. This is therefore a major concern for our fellow citizens, who no longer dare to pick up their phones. This phenomenon, which has become a real scourge, consists of deceptive practices or practices close to telephone harassment, which are similar to an abuse of weakness. Several legislative proposals have been adopted in this regard. They came from all groups, as this subject transcends political divisions. Every time, however, companies have adapted to defeat the law and continue to abuse our fellow citizens, especially the most fragile. We must therefore put an end to these abuses by putting an end to these untimely calls. Over the past two years, when we have tried to develop a more effective legislative framework, we have explained that our action must be based on two pillars: strengthening the obligations of companies and tightening the sanctions to which they are subject. With regard to the first part, we wanted to empower the professional originators by requiring them to comply with a code of good practice, by committing their responsibility for the actions of their subcontractors, by restricting the scope of the contractual exception to solicitations relating to an ongoing contract or related to the subject matter of the contract, by combating the illegitimate modification of the appellant's identifier and by determining the days and hours in which unsolicited commercial prospecting may take place by telephone. The second part, on sanctions, is equally important. We can stack up all the obligations we want: if the sanctions are not dissuasive, the results will not be up to date. The tightening of sanctions has therefore been the driving force behind the amendments adopted by our Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. These amendments harmonised the fines for companies that would not comply with the strict rules of telephone stalling and significantly increased the amount of fines. Infringements of the rules on consumer information in the event of a standstill will now face a fine of EUR 75000 for natural persons and EUR 375000 for businesses, compared with EUR 3000 and EUR 15000, respectively. This has resulted in a balanced text, which will make it possible to combat abusive phone stalling and fraudulent calls more effectively. This law has the merit of protecting consumers from fraud and abuse without penalizing law-abiding actors. We force companies to comply with the legislation, but we do not threaten the economic vitality of those who operate legally. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore welcomes this proposal for a law, which has benefited from broad agreement in the Joint Joint Committee and which draws conclusions from previous normative attempts in this field. Finally, the ban on the use of telephones in the area of energy renovation is obvious to us: without it, the text would lose most of its interest, as this sector concentrates most of the incessant telephone calls. This ban is widely claimed by consumer protection associations, as almost a third of energy renovation disputes are the result of the call-up. The Euro 1 isolation scams are also particularly dangerous at a time when we want to encourage the French to renovate their homes. We cannot say that we want to fight against thermal sieves and also to tolerate fraudulent slamming which leads to costly and poorly executed work. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will, of course, vote in favour of this bill, in order to stop the abusive telephoning that poisons the lives of too many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u70	The text will only stop unfair marketing in the energy renovation sector. It won't fix anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u71	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u72	We are meeting again this evening to consider this bill, after it has been moved to the Senate. As Dominique Potier had pointed out at the first reading in committee, we can be pleased to have to vote on a text which makes almost consensus, at least between the two assemblies, and of which many of our fellow citizens expect a concrete response to everyday worries, these little worries which, by means of repeating themselves, can end badly. We're moving too quickly from the start to harassment and even forced sales, which affect people who are already underprivileged. We could all cite examples of relatives, often alone or elderly, for whom the telephone stalling has resulted in damage to property, in dramatic situations. Among the calls of all kinds that invade our private space through the internet, social networks and continuous e-mails, the telephone stalling is surely one of the most difficult, the most common, against which no weapon, until now, has been effective. You all said, Blockel didn't keep his promises. So we had to go further. The work done on this text is concrete legislative work, carried out in good intelligence with the various political groups and in the interest of all. It is Parliament's usefulness to take these difficulties of everyday life, less anodious than they seem. Fraudulent calls can go very far, to financial harm or harm to the person. The purpose of this bill is therefore to respond to a dual distress: that of the persons called, especially when they are in a situation of fragility or weakness, and that of the appellants, employees, most often because they have no other choice to survive, call centres for which work is only a market value and which contribute to dehumanizing it. The appellants are constantly assessed on their performance and performance, which often makes contact difficult and possible criticism. It is never easy, in fact, to explain to an employee at the end of the world that his calls bother you and to sum him to leave you alone when you know how much pressure he is subjected to. Yet, how many times have we simply hung up, knowing that the very fact of starting the dialogue involved risks? And what about all those who, not to be bothered, don't pick up their phones anymore? By framing a practice that destroys the social bond and ultimately consists of a game of fools, this bill may have a broader purpose than we would have thought. Senators have incorporated into the text new articles that, on the whole, make it possible to take better account of people who are out of the market or even harassed. Strengthening both consumer information and the ethical obligations of professionals responsible for serious situations, they finally provide a more protective legislative framework. In addition, in comparison with the original text, the penalties and fines imposed on violators, they establish more clearly the chain of responsibilities and define the obligations of the various actors who form the links between them. It was important and expected. Finally, they give the DGCCRF more resources to carry out its mission. The Socialist and Related Group therefore remains in favour of this bill. Mr rapporteur, you said that we should have gone further: we are happy to grant it, but this is a first step. Some colleagues would have preferred to ban telephone stalling; Perhaps it will have to come to this. In the meantime, this first step will allow for more work. The amendments adopted in the Senate will not be enough to solve the problem, rooted in the existence of an economy that feeds on each other's weaknesses, but they enrich the text of our colleague; They are moving in the direction we want, that is to say, the one required by the tranquillity of our fellow citizens, which the Prime Minister mentioned today even in his general policy statement. Of course, tranquillity is not limited to the proper use of the communication tools offered by current technologies, but this good use contributes to this. We therefore hope to see this text and its decrees quickly in force. Let us hope that the legislative work does not end there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u73	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... and to revive in us the awareness of our duties as legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u75	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u76	I thank all those who have spoken this evening on this text, which we have been talking about for two years – it is a long time. I thank, of course, Michel Zumkeller, as well as the other members of my parliamentary group – Béatrice Descamps, Guy Bricout, Sophie Auconia, present tonight. This bill is not a bill of a Member of Parliament, it is a bill of a group, and it deals with a subject that we all face in our ridings. I thank Nicolas Demoulin, with whom I worked a lot on this text; Aude Luquet, for everything she said; Laure de La Raudière, for having stressed the necessary stubbornness – it was indeed a pleasure to start this text with her. I also thank Mr Castellani. I would also like to say to Mrs Panot that she will be able to reassure her mother who, thanks to this text, will be much less bothered. Mrs Batho, we have regularly discussed the usefulness of opt-in, the accession option. The reality is that there is no point in setting it up for the telephone stall because, for text messages and e-mails, it is not effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u77	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u78	In fact, it does not prevent spam from arriving on our phones or in our inboxes. It is better to frame the process, to be much more stringent and to create appropriate processes, so that these measures are effective and our citizens are not disturbed. Mr Cordier, no grudge, indeed! There is no grudge to have, but perhaps some truths have to be restored because, by repeating things that are not true, one tends to believe them. This bill is not inspired by yours, because you were a supporter of opt-in, while this text favours opt-out. Moreover, by adopting your position, we would have deprived these poor little artisans or independents of telephone stalling. That is not what this text does. If you had read it correctly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u79	Easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u80	That's not very nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u81	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] ...you would know that they will be able to approach by telephone in the context of a pre-existing contractual relationship. It is therefore wrong to say that they will no longer be able to approach the people in their client file: they will always have the right to restart them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] As we have worked on, opt-out will be the most effective tool to protect our fellow citizens, put an end to fraudulent calls and do what we have been elected for: improve the daily lives of the French. A big thank you, therefore, to all those who will vote in favour of this law. Too bad for those who don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u82	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the independent UDI group. The vote is announced in the Assembly. ............................................................................................................. I will now put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u83	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 49 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-15-E1013.u84	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion, in further reading, of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law allowing the provision of holiday vouchers for staff in the health and medical-social sectors. The meeting is adjourned.
