ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Valérie Petit concerning the launch of a public debate on the creation of a universal income mechanism called the citizen base (No. 3476).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u2	Mrs Valérie Petit spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u3	Has the time for universal income come?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u5	As a growing number of French and also parliamentarians, I am firmly convinced of this. That is why I am before our Assembly, in order, with you, to invite the Government to launch a major debate on the creation of a universal income mechanism in our country. The universal income is this old idea formulated in 1795 by Thomas Paine, this British revolutionist, who sat on the benches of our national assembly. For him, guaranteeing a basic income for all to escape poverty was neither charity nor assistance: it was a right, which he wished to include in the declaration of human and citizen rights; a right that, by emancipating from poverty, would enable everyone to exercise effectively and fully his or her freedoms as a citizen and to undertake his or her life as a man or woman. Finland, Germany, Spain, Argentina, Japan, Canada, Malaysia, Peru, India, Tunisia: across the world, many countries are preparing to launch or experiment with universal income mechanisms, up to the Pope who calls for its creation. In Europe, a European citizens' initiative has been launched which aims to challenge the European Commission to make the European Union an area free of poverty because – as we know, the Democrats, the Liberals and the Progressives – the enemies of democracy are ever more numerous, they whose political health is nourished by social crises and who expect only one thing: the failure of our promise to unwaveringly link freedom and prosperity. What happened for such different states to come to a similar conclusion? What happened to make universal income, this utopia of the world before, a solution of the world after? It is that the world has turned into a crisis to which we were not prepared. In France, the covid epidemic revealed how much our social protection was, in fact, full of holes; How unfair our social model, however generous, could be. Students, artisans, traders, self-employed or modest households, due to the cessation of their activity or their non-wage-earning regime, have sometimes found themselves without anything or with too little to live with. Solidarity Fund and State aid have urgently avoided the worst, but it cannot be a lasting solution, which gives a future perspective to every Frenchman, without exception or exclusion. Our system is out of breath: this is the first lesson of the crisis we are experiencing. New protection mechanisms must be invented and put in place, of the scale of those we implemented by creating social security in 1945, to rebuild our country and our national cohesion. In November 2020, 10 million French people live in poverty, an increasing figure. It is a certainty: in the coming months, with the crisis of the covid, our country will face a real shock of poverty that now affects all French people. Poverty has indeed become a global risk, and that is why we need a universal response. This protection, this safety net has a name: it is the universal income, an idea historically carried by two large political families, the liberal family and the socialist family. At this point in my presentation, I want to highlight the work and commitment of these two families to enable the universal income to return to our hemicycle. I would first like to welcome my colleagues in the Socialist and related Group, in particular Régis Juanico, who signed this motion for a resolution. In 2018, the Socialist Group had tabled a bill to test universal income, and if I am not in favour of the mechanism proposed at the time, I agree with the aim more than ever. [[Ms. Maina Sage applauds]] I would then like to pay tribute to my Liberal colleagues, particularly those of the Group of the European People's Party, and to its President Olivier Becht, who is defending this text with unprecedented social ambition. I also want to salute the team of the think tank Free Generation whose work inspired the citizen base, the universal income mechanism that I defend. Finally, I want to thank all the signatories of this motion for a resolution from six groups in this House: this proposal is therefore not a personal adventure, it is the result of a long collective and trans-party work that honours, I believe, our parliamentary mandate. On the universal income, there are plumbers and poets: both are useful, my faith, and the debate that this resolution demands will allow to confront all kinds of poetry and all techniques of piping. For my part, I'm pretty much on the plumber side! What matters to me is to develop an effective mechanism to combat inequalities, fiscally sustainable and simple to use for the French. The citizen base is the new and realistic version of the universal income that I propose and will defend with the parliamentarians of the majority. The citizen base is above all a mechanism of fiscal and social solidarity, I would say even more: it is a reform that uses the fiscal lever to achieve historical social progress. We propose first of all to introduce the universal income tax: everyone will pay the income tax from the first euro earned. Then, each Frenchman will be subject to the same rule of calculation: the amount of the citizen base will be added to the amount of his or her tax, as well as to that of a number of social assistance to which one is entitled to housing, to compensate for certain frailties or to provide for his or her family's needs. If the result of this transaction is positive, you pay taxes the amount. If, on the other hand, it is negative, it is the public finances that pay you an amount ensuring that you have resources at least equal to that of the citizen base. This is the well-known principle of "negative tax". With this mechanism, made technically feasible by the source levy, it becomes possible to calculate a universal income as close as possible to the evolution of income and to pay it automatically. This would allow for example to respond in just a few days to a sudden fall in activity or income, whether due to an epidemic, a natural disaster, an attack or a brutal economic shock. In a society faced with many risks – health, economic, climate and security – the citizen base is a mechanism that will give the French the confidence and sufficient means to continue to undertake their lives. The citizen base is a mechanism for eradicating extreme poverty; It is also an insurance against the risk of poverty, which will allow everyone to emancipate and actively engage in society. It puts an end to old inequalities, for the benefit of young people, women, the self-employed and modest households. The citizen base is also a mechanism for adapting to changes in the world of work, in particular to the rise of self-employment. It makes it possible to bounce back, take risks, to undertake, to train, to act for society, without having for oneself and his family a paralyzing fear. Finally, the citizen base is a mechanism for the integration and simplification of our social assistance system. Because of its complexity, it has become too expensive, unfair and discriminatory. With the citizen base, the current social benefits would be merged and integrated into a single system of automatic calculation and payment via the now universal tax sheet. So this is what the citizen base is, and now this is what it is not. The citizen base is not assistance. The work that earned the French economist Esther Duflo to receive the Nobel Prize in Economics invalidates many of our prejudices about the links between social assistance and activity. They show that investment, especially monetary investment, in individuals makes them more active and enterprising. I would also like to point out that the goal of universal income is not to change human nature but to ensure human freedom and dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u7	The citizen base is also not a destruction of labour value, as is sometimes understood. On the contrary, it makes it possible to build the value of activity, because it is necessary to be free from poverty and fear in order to engage actively in society, whether through work, volunteerism or any other form of activity that creates economic, social and ecological wealth. The citizen base is not, on the contrary, the universal income of activity, a measure to combat unemployment; In the words of the President of the Republic, it is a matter of freeing everyone from poverty in order to build a society of free and solidary citizens. Finally, the citizen base is not simply a monetary payment: it is an investment in the individual. This change in philosophy must be accompanied by the creation of a genuine public service of activity to accompany everyone in a society where the concept and rules of activity have changed. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizen base is a deeply republican, not to say revolutionary, measure: it is a measure of freedom that aims at the emancipation of every person from poverty; It is a measure of equality that repairs injustices between the French who have lasted too long, and it is a measure of fraternity that, by its universal character, will strengthen our national community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u8	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the groups Acte ens., LaREM, Dem and LT - Mr Régis Juanico also applauds]] The universal income is neither right nor left: it is on the side of those who believe in Man, those who are attached to our social and republican model. He is on the side of those who will have the audacity and courage to make a historic reform, that which the twenty-first century needs and which the generations to come will remember because it will have helped to rebuild a better France: a free France, solidarity, which looks with strength and confidence towards the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u10	Mrs Agnes Thill, for the IDU and independent group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u11	The text before us is intended to open a debate on the establishment of a universal income, the only tool that, according to the authors, can protect the French most exposed to poverty. Our group is very critical of the form of your text. You indicate that "a consensus is emerging on the establishment of a universal income mechanism". I remind you that this was a proposal of the socialist candidate in the 2017 presidential election, who achieved the score we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u12	Oh! We will see what yours will be at the next legislative elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u13	Then you invite the Government to open and hold a debate on the subject. But my dear colleague Petit, this is the first vocation of this assembly. Should we be asking the Government for permission to debate, whatever the subject? What are we doing here? Some sentences in the summary report seem to us to be very vague, such as this: "It does not damage the value of work: it supports the value of activity. » We who thought that one of the lessons of the health crisis would be a greater humility! According to you, this reform would be "on the side of those who believe in man" – just that! – On the side "of those whom we will remember because they have built the world after, a better world." It would seem to see the return of the "new world"... Let us move quickly on to the very manichean implication that the opponents of the proposed measures would be from the retrograde camp. Other phrases are all ill-advised slogans, such as this: "Let's be generous, let's be bold, let's be French! This device cannot be limited to a marketing and communication tool. The health crisis has broken the cards and the subsequent economic and social crisis will be of such magnitude that it will force us to innovate, to rethink our social protection system. For this reason, and although we are not in favour of the distribution of income to all our fellow citizens without compensation – which would be a permit to idleness – we are nevertheless open to reflection on this subject. For our group, the distribution of income is only possible if it is targeted exclusively at those of our fellow citizens who need it most and if it is accompanied by counterpart: for example, in the context of national solidarity, we would propose to impose hours of volunteering, which would also allow the beneficiaries to remain in an activity approach by working a few hours,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u14	Forced labour!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u15	... to acquire new skills, to feel useful, to establish ties, to meet people and, consequently, to be fulfilled, to emancipate and to have a social life. Some departments already require volunteering in return for the payment of active solidarity income – RSA – without raising any problems...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u16	Yes, it's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u17	... in its judgment of 15 June 2018, the Council of State itself recognised the signing of such contracts as being in conformity. Finally, we fail to understand that you do not discriminate against beneficiaries by favouring those who need it most. Indeed, with the scheme that you propose, a student whose parents are wealthy could be granted income by the state: it would no longer be a matter for the state to eliminate inequalities, but to perpetuate them, at the expense of the taxpayer. With regard to financing, there are several points that are of concern to us. The hypothesis that you present – and it is courageous to have pushed the reflection to this level of detail – leads you to affirm that the scheme is financially sustainable with a constant budget. But what budget are we talking about? This year, in order to deal with the crisis, we voted only for exceptional budgets, which by their very nature are not sustainable. You also indicate that it would be enough to set an average tax rate of 30%: would this rate apply to the universal income you are defending? That would mean further impoverishing our poorest citizens. All these questions about the approximations, or even the ideological echoes of your text, leave important doubts about the realism of your proposals. Thus, if our group is open to discussing the concept of universal income, we do not share the way you see it. That is why the majority of its members will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u18	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u19	For several months, warning signals have been increasing on the front lines of the fight against precariousness and poverty, and in recent weeks there has been even more concern: the Catholic Relief estimates that 10 million French people will live below the poverty line by the end of the year, or a million more poor people. In front of the Restos du coeur and other food aid associations, the queues are growing, in which there are new audiences – many young people, among others. The departments observed a 20 per cent increase in RSA applications. In other words, this massive increase in poverty is potentially explosive. In the period we are living in, we would have needed a basic income. As we know, the question of a minimum living income is not new. In recent years, several scenarios have coexisted, with as many names as different levels of protection and conditionality: guaranteed minimum social income for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC –, basic income for the Economic Analysis Council, subsistence income for certain departments... Each time, the reflections carried out remained at the stage of the theory. Our group can therefore only regret that the project of a universal income of activity, announced by the Government since 2018, was not the subject of an earlier debate in Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u21	...and, above all, that he could not succeed. While our country can be proud of its model of social protection, whose cardinal value is solidarity, it remains perfectable. First of all, many French people renounce their rights. This non-use, estimated at 30 per cent, increases inequalities and further weakens the most precarious. Unfortunately, State services are sometimes remote or even absent in some territories: according to the human rights defender, 12 per cent of people with administrative problems end up giving up their efforts. Fractures are multiple – territorial fractures, use fractures. The introduction of a single aid, automatic payment, would therefore simplify our system of social benefits, which is sometimes illegible. However, there is still a need to reflect on the future of current services, since not all of them cover the same need and their merger could, as often, lead to budgetary optimisation. Second, universal assistance would help to address some of the shortcomings in our system. In a world of work marked by profound changes, applying the citizen base to all from the age of 18, as this motion for a resolution suggests, is indeed necessary. The current crisis particularly weakens the under-25s, who remain excluded from certain benefits, such as the RSA – which is why our group has asked for its extension. [[Applause on the benches of the LT groups and Action ens]] Let us be clear: we do not share the idea that the citizen base, as proposed, would produce, as we sometimes hear, assistance. It is a real safety net, automatic and universal, for all those who, both yesterday and today, are excluded and marginalized; a safety net to bounce back in case of failure and restart when faced with a crisis or profound change; a safety net that also allows you to take risks and launch yourself, at the beginning of your life or at any other time, because it is by freeing yourself in part from fear and anxiety that you can move forward. In these circumstances, we can only call for further reflection on the subject. In particular, tax reform based on a universal and individualised income tax, which makes both the originality and the strength of the citizens' income project, must be thoroughly examined in order to avoid any decisions or side effects that might contravene the principles of social justice and redistribution at the heart of our tax system. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Even if in my group, some of us did not necessarily agree with all the avenues of work mentioned, we are many who have co-signed the motion for a resolution: we must acknowledge that such a mechanism would have been very useful when dealing with a health, economic and social crisis of such violence. Finally, beyond Parliament, it is important for every citizen to be able to comment on these issues, which mainly question the society we want. For this is indeed a choice of general interest, which implies essential social consent. More than ever, it is essential to give meaning to our social protection system; More than ever, it is important to share this project with citizens through extensive consultation. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this resolution. Let me end with a blasphemy, however: while we can be glad that this debate is coming back to the political agenda, we necessarily wonder what will come out of it: in other words, can a reform of this magnitude come about by the end of the legislature? There is room for doubt. While it is important to launch this debate, it is imperative that it be successful so that the daily lives of millions of French people can be improved. We therefore call for at least testing of the device. [[Applause on the benches of the LT groups and Action ens. - Ms. Sylvie Charière also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT groups and Action ens]] In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her remarkable work: no gadget mechanism, no communication tool, citizens' income is a tool that preserves human dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u22	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u23	France is the world's sixth-largest economic power, a rich country. Since this summer, it has even had ninety-five billionaires, three times more than ten years ago. As a result of Emmanuel Macron's fiscal reforms, such as the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth, the richest 0.1% saw their wealth increase by another quarter in a year: they are the great winners of the policy of the "President of the Rich". At the same time, poverty in our country has reached records never equaled since the Second World War: 10 million poor in France and more and more situations worthy of the quarter-world. Some are moved by it, claiming that they have no problem with the rich but that poverty is unbearable. Problem: there is indeed a link between the boundless accumulation, in a few hands, of the wealth produced, and the extension of poverty. Victor Hugo wrote: "The paradise of the rich is made from the hell of the poor. » There is therefore an urgent need to share wealth, because the fruits of human labor are very poorly distributed: indeed, if productivity has increased considerably in recent decades, it has long been the case that workers have not benefited from it, nor by the historical movement of reduction of working time – whether it be in the day, in the week or in life! – neither by real wage increases. Why? Because there is an exceptional predation, a veritable vampirism of capital over human labor. In ten years, dividends paid to shareholders have increased by 70 per cent, while the minimum wage has increased by only 12 per cent and productive investments have decreased by 5 per cent. You want to open the debate: very well. But what will its outlet be? Contrary to what would happen with a citizens' initiative referendum or a shared initiative referendum, for example, we do not know. More so, than on the modalities of the debate, it is on the content of your proposal that I will concentrate my remarks. You defend your version of what should be called a universal income, and that you call the citizen base. If I specify "your version", it is that there are almost as many versions of the universal income as there are people proposing it. The idea that universal income would always be a social measure is therefore misleading. Indeed, what is common, for example, between a universal income consisting of merging and replacing social assistance – and thus drawing from one pocket to fill the other – and, at the other end of the chart, the institution of a lifetime wage? First dispute on the diagnosis: we do not agree that the precariousness of the labour market is inevitable, or that productivity gains would ultimately lead to the end of the labour market. For example, a programme like the one we are defending, "the Common Future", which provides for the planning of ecological bifurcation, solidarity protectionism and the reduction of working time – working less, working better, working all – would allow, if applied, the creation of jobs in such a quantity that the problem, when we govern the country, will not be to have enough work but to have enough labour to carry out all the tasks to be carried out. Your citizen base combines tax reform and social benefits reform. But what kind of tax reform? You're not saying it. You're talking about proportionality, but where has the necessary progressivity gone? France is more in favour of a major tax reform to move from the current five to fourteen tax brackets, which would ensure a better progressivity and thus a real distribution of effort among all. With the system we are proposing, those who earn less than 4000 euros a month would pay less taxes than today. As far as social benefits are concerned, your objective is less confused than the rest of the proposal. You write it, moreover: it is not a question of increasing them, but of simplifying them. You're even talking about a "turnover" to the citizen base system. Besides, and even if you say that you reserve his determination for the future discussion, all the examples you cite are based on the ridiculous amount of the RSA. You are also talking – and this is the most worrying – about constant costs. But who can believe, dear Madame Petit, that poverty could be eradicated at constant cost? We want a guarantee of dignity, by raising the social minimums to 1000 euros, because no one in France should live below the poverty line. We also plead for the free distribution of several common goods – such as the first cubic metres of water –, for a better distribution of taxes and for the sharing of the wealth produced by labour. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, your proposal, as formulated, does not guarantee any improvement in living standards: above all, it deliberately diverts sight. You want to make an anachronistic the battle, which is essential to us, of the sharing of wealth and the best distribution between labour and capital. For all these reasons, we will oppose your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u24	You are opposed to the debate for ideological reasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u25	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u26	At the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party, our Assembly is today invited to take a decision on a motion for a resolution to open "a national and citizen debate on the creation, testing, financing, application and evaluation of a universal income mechanism, known as the "citizen base", in order to include it in the law by 2022 at the latest. The introduction of a basic income, regardless of the name given to it, is a widely debated idea. The origin of this concept is ancient, since we will find a first trace of it in the book L'Utopie by Thomas More, written in 1516. During the current parliamentary term, we have already debated a proposal for a law by the Socialist Group aimed at experimenting locally with an unconditional basic income, open to all from the age of 18. As the Government was working in parallel on a universal income of activity, the bill had not received a favourable response. In the context of the motion for a resolution we are discussing today, we will not have to take a decision on the modalities for the establishment of the citizens' floor, but only to affirm, on behalf of our House, the need to place this complex issue at the heart of the public debate. The universal income of activity, whose ambition is to simplify the various social aids and to automate them to combat the phenomenon of non-recourse, did not require a broad public debate. However, the findings of the Government's consultation on the subject, which was delivered in December 2019, have highlighted citizen expectations that go beyond these technical concerns alone. The first of these expectations relates to the introduction of an individualized income as early as the majority. Young people are more affected than their elderly by precarious conditions: the payment of a minimum income to children under 25 years of age, combined with support, is a possibility that the Government seems to have joined forces with. The creation of a universal income for activity could therefore be envisaged only if it included young people between the ages of 18 and 25. The second expectation that emerges from the UA survey relates to its unconditionality. We spend a lot of time in checks, in justifications, which could be used more usefully to support the beneficiaries in meeting their needs. Finally, the third expectation expressed by citizens is that this income will be truly universal. This principle has the merit of simplicity; it shall avoid stigmatisation of receiving financial support; It makes it easier for voluntary associations to become involved, as well as to secure occupational trajectories which are partly out of the situations covered by social security or unemployment insurance. Despite the advantages that have just been mentioned, there are fears that such an income may divert some from work; Others do not understand the idea that it should be paid even to those who already have significant resources. On this last point, in order to correct what would indeed be an anomaly while keeping this citizen's basic income to everyone, fair taxation of all the income collected is possible. Given the period of economic uncertainty that we are experiencing and the concerns that it raises among the population, this debate, more than ever, makes sense. However, an individualized, unconditional, universal, citizen base income would upset our relationship to the aid relationship, as well as the correlation between the value of work, to which we are deeply attached, and the resources that an individual may have. That is why its creation needs to be the subject of a wide-ranging national debate. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem groups, Action ens. and LT as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and without assuming what could be formulated and applied at the end, again, of a wide-ranging citizen's debate, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and allied Democrats is in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is co-signed by some of its members, of which I am.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u27	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u28	Like so many other countries, our country faces an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis. This crisis strikes the most vulnerable among us; It is legitimate to want to answer that question. In any case, it cannot relegate our ambition to transform, to act on inequalities at their roots, to make work and the fight against unemployment the pillars of our policy. Your question about the economic and social policies we are pursuing is welcome. It could lead to a debate that we obviously do not refuse. The idea of a universal income is not new in principle. It deserves an overview of our policy, but also a clear and objective vision. Indeed, other countries, such as Canada and Finland, which had made the political choice of an unconditional universal income before you, gave it up in a second phase. In Spain, a country that does not have the same level of social protection as we do, the recently chosen option is more like our SSA than a universal income. In Germany, the unconditional income, moreover highly contested, will be experienced at the initiative of civil society on 122 people; It is therefore not possible to assess the results today. In France, three years ago, one of the presidential candidates made it an important point of his programme, before reversing the misunderstanding of the French: today there is no political consensus or citizen on this subject. This has been demonstrated by numerous discussions and consultations. We have made a different choice: the fight against poverty, against inequality, cannot be reduced to unconditional financial aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u29	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u30	This is the whole difference between assistance or charity and social policies designed to lift those who are unfortunately settled out of poverty. It is true that in order to cope with the crisis, we have had to complement our basic social policy, of which the RSA is part, with a set of direct support measures amounting to more than €3.5 billion: upgrading of the school start-up allowance, strengthening of the national emergency housing policy, support for food aid through the massive distribution of food cheques, financial support for anti-poverty associations, a plan for young people, which now has excellent results, and new aid to be forthcoming for precarious workers. INSEE has just published a report estimating that in 2019, poverty has decreased and income inequality has decreased, particularly as a result of the increase in the activity premium and its extension to new beneficiaries. The fall in unemployment has, of course, also played a major role in the fight against poverty and inequality. At the same time, in this time of crisis, the citizens' income that you propose to us would not have been enough: in health, education, housing, it would also have taken exceptional measures to strengthen sectoral policies. However, there is no question of considering that we should not go any further, including in the implementation of our economic and social policies, both of which go hand in hand. That is why we are working on the universal income of activity, which requires simplifying the architecture of our social minimums and intervening on failing operationality. We are also working to create a public sector of integration, in line with what we have exposed to the French during the presidential and legislative campaigns. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic on the move is ready for the debate that you are proposing to us; It will require that you interpret the conceptual plasticity that explains the vagueness of the purpose of your resolution, and that would undoubtedly pose, although you do not mention it, a major funding problem. The OFCE, the French Economic Observatory, believes that, in order for the system not to lose, it would be necessary to pay each €785 per month, i.e. a total cost of €480 billion, representing 35 points of generalised social contribution or 22 points of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u31	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u32	Debate is probably useful, but this crisis obliges us to act immediately, at the same time as it allows us to prepare for the future...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u33	Dear colleague, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u34	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... while keeping intact our ambition to transform, to liberate, to protect more than ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u35	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u36	The Republican Group welcomes the desire of the National Assembly, the most essential forum for public debate, to address this major issue, since it concerns the fight against poverty, work and social cohesion. These are the foundations on which to build a project of society, a national cohesion, a dynamic for our country. As part of our work, we must constantly, together, open up new horizons. The goal of employment for all, i.e. the goal of full employment, more precisely of full activity or activity for all, remains our priority. The activity forms the basis of any company project, of any joint project. Through work, man is realized; through his work, he makes a living. "Everyone has a duty to work and the right to get a job," recalls the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. Your motion for a resolution seeks to ensure that everyone benefits from income. The idea is attractive; But not all ideas, however attractive they may be, are easily applicable. For example, the 35 hours, i.e. the reduction in working time, will reduce unemployment, with the same amount of work to be shared among more people. It wasn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u38	Three hundred and fifty thousand net jobs: we have never done better since!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u39	Worse, this decision has affected our country's competitiveness and disorganized a number of institutions, including hospitals. Many other similar ideas have ultimately proved ineffective, destabilizing, and costly in relation to the original objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u40	You're thinking of the Bachelot Law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u41	In France, the poverty line is set at EUR 1063 per month. To meet your goal of a citizen base, your mechanism would logically require an allocation of the same amount, at least. The net SMIC this year amounts to 1219 euros per month, so the minimum wage would be only 156 euros higher than the universal income. Of course, in France, low wages are too low; There is a fight to be waged, a cause that we must advance together. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us dare to say this: while everyone now agrees that work, for many reasons, must be urgently restored in our country, beware that universal income does not become a premium for inactivity. In particular, your argument is based on an international comparison: you have cited Germany, Spain and Japan, which are reflecting on such a mechanism. But they don't have a social protection system similar to ours! Comparing the poverty rate with the median income of the population, both Eurostat and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) figures show that France covers poverty more than these three countries. Clearly, we must continue our efforts to combat poverty; Nevertheless, the French system remains one of the most protective in the world. You are promulgating the eradication of poverty through this universal income, the amount of which you consider to be part of social dialogue. This is not possible; We don't agree. Using social dialogue is a trick by which you avoid coming to budgetary reality. Neither the social minima nor the tax to which the system is based depend on social dialogue: in this respect it is up to Parliament to decide. With regard to universal income, you cannot reject the responsibility for the decision on the social partners. Your simulation assumes an allowance at the OAS level and an average tax rate of 32%. However, as long as your universal income is raised to EUR 1063 per month, which is the minimum amount required, I repeat, to effectively eradicate poverty, this results in a doubling of its cost. From the point of view of sustainability, the idea that you submit to us is therefore highly questionable. In addition, half of the French population does not pay income tax; even with an adequate mechanism, using it could generate resistance and conflict. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You are right to put this debate on the table, and our group is very much in favour of a frank reflection on work, on activity for all, on social protection, on the fight against poverty. However, as it stands, we will not follow your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u42	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u43	In France, 10 million women, men, young people and children are now living in poverty, some of which have the indecency to make them responsible. Poverty is lack, sometimes hunger, sometimes cold, always discomfort and uncertainty, often isolation and pain; Sometimes all of this. It is all the more unbearable because it is not a fatality. You know Dom Hélder Câmara's reflection: "I feed a poor man and I am told that I am a saint. I ask why the poor man doesn't have enough food and I'm called a communist. We are not afraid that we will be called communists: it is not an insult, it is a compliment. And if no one here claims to be a saint, we believe that we must act both on the causes and on the consequences of poverty. For we know with Hugo that it is from the paradise of the rich that the hell of the poor is made. But this paradise of the rich bears a name, capitalism, and we believe that we must go beyond this system which is based on the accumulation of wealth by some. Everything there is commodity, human work is mistreated, lives are threatened with meaning and so many people are at risk of being deprived of everything. The causes must be addressed, not only in order to guarantee to each and every person acceptable material conditions of existence, but in order to pave the way for other human relations, for freedom to be self and to be fulfilled, for the right to what Jaurès called "whole growth", for full respect for human dignity, for further progress in humanization, for the permanent construction of a shared world. I know he'll find it to mock this great dream and consider it a chimera. I tell them that there is nothing more realistic, in the face of the gravity of the tragedies and perils. So, what do we do right now? Collective responses are needed in the face of this scourge that human civilization should abolish. In the face of poverty, as in the face of many challenges, one cannot simply refer to individual gestures, because it is a major social and political issue. What is needed is to put an end to fiscal injustice, to the power of shareholders, to deregulation, to precarisation and to the weakening of social protection. We must stop manufacturing poor workers, unemployed people without rights, poorly retired pensioners and abandoned young people, and disconnect the machinery for manufacturing poverty. You are today defending a citizen base that recalls certain forms of universal income. Is that a real or a false idea? While words can flatter the ear, the question is much more complex – and probably much more trapped – than it seems. Some formulas are perfectly compatible with the liberal model, to the point of providing it with the good conscience that would allow it to continue its damage. What is to be feared is that this scheme simply consists of grouping into one aid, under the guise of simplification and for the balance of all accounts, different social aids more or less well designed to deal with identified situations. For many, this could be a regression. If we share with you certain observations, including the need to make access to rights more automatic and universal in order to avoid non-recourse and the combatant's journeys, we doubt your proposal. We do not think it appropriate to leave it to very minimal aid financed at constant scope by income tax, by refusing to tackle upstream the capture of wealth by capital, on the back of labour. Moreover, we are discussing the hypothesis of a shortage of work, while health and environmental crises show how much of the basic needs are now unmet, because the market organizes the structure of employment according to criteria of profitability. In the current movement of mechanization and digitization that excludes the human, we need work, crafts and work. The example of agriculture demonstrates this: this sector needs ecological, economic and social planning. Its situation calls for the development of public intervention and public services – which should no longer scare you, since the pandemic – as well as the economy of social and solidarity sharing. We do not want the majority to be divided between those who live more or less well on their wages by hard work, and those who live badly on a universal income by being prevented from participating in the functioning of a drifting society. The work must be freed, transformed and better shared, rehabilitated and reinvented. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. - Mr. Denis Sommer also applauds]] Addressing the consequences of poverty requires universal social protection. We need a training force that secures, accompanies, repairs and projects in the future, not just a safety net or a rescue body. We plead for social re-appropriation of social security, supported by real national solidarity, and for free common goods essential for living, which are extracted from the logics of the market. We want to change the order of things, with women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u44	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u45	I am not aware of the fate of the Government and the majority of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to hold a public debate on the creation of a citizen base, but I would like to reassure our colleagues who are submitting it to us: not only are we Socialist Members never opposed to the debate – which we will draw the consequences by voting on your proposal – but we will go even further. In fact, we are already offering you a public debate on basic income, its modalities of allocation, its universality, its conditionality or its methods of financing, through the citizen participation platform Parliament &am p; Citizens. It is open to each and every one of you and your constituents to participate. This initiative will not be useless because the contributions of contributors will feed into the public debate as well as our own bill, and will even be the subject of citizen amendments. Our proposal could thus join your concerns and wish to debate. Entitled "individual support for emancipation: giving wings to youth rather than cutting them off", it focuses on both basic income and universal endowment, both accessible from the age of 18. The question that you raise deserves to be taken seriously – we take it so seriously that we have here, two years ago, led a debate, which was expeditious, on a proposal for a law to experiment with a basic income. This was the result of a citizen consultation and the demanding and thorough work carried out by nineteen socialist departments. But I am obliged to remind you that the majority and the Government had refused, through a motion of rejection, the very principle of the debate on the substance. Four Members of Parliament, among the co-signatories of this resolution, had voted on this motion to reject it beforehand. I am pleased to note that they seem to have reviewed their assessment of the importance not only of the debate, but perhaps also of the subject which was submitted to their vote. In the long history of the ideas that you refer to in the introduction to your resolution, you could have cited the proposal of socialist candidate Benoît Hamon. In this regard, I commend Régis Juanico for the consistency of his ideas and his struggle. You could have referred to the work of your former colleague, Pierre-Alain Muet, in particular his suggestion to revise the income tax by including a negative tax, which could join your proposal. We will therefore not hesitate to participate in the debate while stressing, however, that there will be proposals on the universal income of the right and others on the left. The crisis that we are going through is a sign of the poverty, poverty and unbearable inequalities that are undermining our society. While we still hear of assistance with great indecency, how many of our compatriots fail to use their rights? We share your diagnosis of the necessary simplification and automation of devices. Foreign experiences – including those that have been suspended, such as in Finland or California – make lies the caricature that basic income would lead citizens to fall into idleness and run counter to the desire for a return to employment – quite the contrary. There is also a concern for young people in our country. A very French pontiff is to consider that young people must be a journey of the fighter and that their difficulties are training: she should be in a bad place to find a job, to finance her studies, to find housing, to care for herself, to dress herself – and this is all the more true in the period we are going through. We therefore continue to advocate for the urgent introduction of a minimum level of youth, which could consist primarily of the opening of rights to the RSA at the age of 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u47	[[Applause on the SOC, Activité ens and GDR benches]] How incongruous that the criminal majority is set at 16 years, the civic majority at 18 years and the social majority at 25 years! It is therefore by keeping young people in mind that we will be participating in this debate – youth with a lower standard of living at 18 years of age than at 17 years of age, whose heritage is 75% lower than that of the thirty-year-olds and whose poverty rate is three times higher than that of the over-60s. Young people are suffering and the Government is not looking at them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take action and debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u48	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u49	The explanatory statement of your bill, Mrs Petit, explains that "in order to cope with the unprecedented social emergency and to "rapify our social cover", the Government had to put in place a real arsenal of protection and safeguard of the income of the French: solidarity funds for the self-employed, support for households and precarious young people, financing of the partial activity [...]. You add: "This response to the crisis was necessary. We had no other at our disposal. But it is not sustainable, and above all, it invites us to reflect and design a more effective and sustainable mechanism to respond to future crises and to the risk of poverty and insecurity that accompany them. » To do this, you propose to put in place a universal solidarity mechanism that would provide everyone with a safety net, you say, of what to hold to bounce in the event of a shock and the assurance of being safe, no matter what happens – in short, a direct and unique, automatic and universal help. The intention is obviously commendable and the protection of the weakest in our society is a necessity. However, a question arises: is a universal income the solution and will it guarantee a better future for people in precarious situations? I have noted that you have no intention of deciding today – that is happy – neither the method of calculation nor the amount of this universal income. However, you give us some concrete information, including that it could be based on the current RSA, which stands at 564 euros for a single person without a child – far away, far from the poverty line assessed by INSEE at just over 1000 euros per month. Let us be honest, we are not the only country to reflect on this issue and the economic consequences of the health crisis have further accelerated the urgency of reflection. In fact, other European countries have already set up experiments, the results of which are sometimes mixed and call for reflection. Finland, which you mentioned, conducted a large-scale experiment between June 2017 and the end of 2018 with the unemployed. Unfortunately, the conclusions of the study were somewhat disappointing: despite an improvement in the well-being of the citizens who had benefited from the experiment, the effect on employment was not present. You know that Germany has just decided to carry out a similar experiment: as of February 2021, 120 German citizens will receive a basic income of 1200 euros per month – a sum far removed from the French RSA – for three years. In the same spirit, Twitter boss Jack Dorsey announced – in a tweet, of course – that he was going to give $3 million to allow mayors of several cities in the United States to experiment with the creation of a universal income. So the idea is on its way, but it still encounters the same reluctance. In addition to the enormous cost of such a measure to the state funds – although I understand that today such a consideration has become secondary to us – there are fears that such a measure may cause the workers to leave their jobs and the unemployed to abandon their research. The German experience confirms these fears, since more than 1.6 million people have volunteered to participate. Today, applications are now closed and 1500 Germans have finally been selected: 120 participants will be matched to 1,380 statistical twins, and all will have to answer questions over the months. [[Exclaims on the banks of the Action ens group]] Finally, I would like to mention a risk to which you can only be sensitive, since you are concerned about women's rights. The introduction of a universal income could lead to a perverse effect of returning women home by increasing part-time work for them. Simulations carried out in Germany showed that the introduction of a universal income would indeed lead to a reduction in working time, low for married men – about 5% – and significantly higher for married women – 21.1%. Definitely, hell will always be paved with good intentions! Beyond these figures, your proposal could have another perverse effect, and of another importance, that of implying that one can live without working...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u50	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u51	...and to encourage, I'm saying to encourage some to run away from work. It would be a kind of morale of abandonment, of renunciation, when, more than ever, we need the effort, the effort of all and the effort of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u52	On the vote on the motion for a resolution, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party have tabled a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u53	The motion for a resolution discussed today suggests the launch of a public debate on the creation of a universal income mechanism called the "citizen base". I have been very attentive to the interventions that have preceded, all of which are of high quality and show the interest of national representation in the necessary support of the most fragile, especially during times of crisis, but also showing that there are different approaches to the very notion of universality around an income. In my own capacity, in a parliamentary report, I had defended the idea of a universal income for young people under the age of twenty-five who had left child welfare – ESA – on an experimental basis, on a well-defined cohort. The introduction of a basic income may seem interesting at first glance. The proposed system is simple, which would, in particular, help to combat the non-use of the RSA. It would also ensure that work is paid for all in the same way. However, it seems important to me to clarify this debate on several points. First of all, the motion for a resolution is based on the assumption that the various payments of exceptional solidarity aid during the crisis would reflect a weakness of our social system. However, we have been able to deploy these exceptional measures on the basis of the existing social safety net, which we have simply adapted to the exceptional circumstances of the crisis that led to a sudden decline in household incomes, especially the most precarious. Moreover, the basic income system proposed today, based on the amount of the RSA, would not have avoided the need to implement exceptional premiums in the face of the crisis. Our social protection system is strong, it leaves room for responsiveness and flexibility and has allowed us to collectively face the different challenges of history, which we can be proud of. The motion for a resolution mentions the income distribution policies implemented in the United States, Germany and Spain following the crisis. However, it seems to me that we cannot mention countries without taking a little step backwards: it is up to us to study the social benefits of our neighbours and compare them with ours – in short, to analyse the facts. Thus, the recent Spanish minimum subsistence income consists of a monetary aid of 462 euros for a single person, intended for 850,000 households in situations of extreme poverty. This system therefore returns, little or no, to the establishment of an RSA in Spain, i.e. what exists in France since 1988 with the minimum income of integration – RMI. Our social safety net continues to be an export model, while demonstrating its resilience during the crisis. Having said that, my remarks are not intended to go back to a fact that I fully agree with: the essential subject remains the non-use of rights. The current answers, I am thinking in particular of the appointments of rights organised by the family allowance funds – CAF – have shown real efficiency, but are obviously still insufficient. That is why the Government has issued an opinion in favour of an amendment by Mrs Christine Cloarec in the framework of the last PLFSS, which extends the tasks of social security agencies to the fight against non-use of rights. Exchange of information between bodies, including beyond the social sphere, will be allowed to detect, through automated data analyses, persons eligible for the various services and inform them of their potential rights: this is a major step forward. Similarly, the deployment of the monthly resource package will allow for the automatic pre-filling of the resource line for grant applicants. This system, which should start with the personalized housing assistance – APL – will gradually be extended to all benefits, including the RSA and the activity bonus. To return to the motion for a resolution, it also seems to me to ignore some of the difficulties and pitfalls of basic income that have long been identified. First, by being individualized, the basic income would not allow the standard of living of the household to be taken into account, unlike the RSA. In particular, it would not take into account the spouse's resources or wealth income, which could lead to highly inequitable situations. Secondly, the Corsican Assembly's experiment with a similar arrangement has shown that it is not the most economically fragile that would benefit from this reform. Indeed, the monetary gain is concentrated on the third to sixth deciles, which earn respectively two and five times more with the setting up of such a base income than the most humble 20%. Such a system would therefore not necessarily improve the daily lives of the most deprived, particularly vulnerable at this time. Thirdly, this proposal would necessarily raise the question of the future of the accompanying arrangements for the beneficiaries of the RSA. As you know, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has endeavoured to strengthen this support towards a return to activity. Finally, the proposed project would not allow for a better articulation of the various means-tested aids, in particular housing allowances or the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH. All these complex issues require substantive reflection, and work is already under way on a reform response to these various issues. In accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, work has been initiated on the creation of a universal income of activity which, in some of its aspects, is in line with the proposal made today. It would indeed be a matter of reshaping the system of monetary support to the most precarious in order to make it more legible, fairer, while fighting effectively against non-recourse. [[Brouhahaha]] Conducted by the Inter-Ministerial Delegation for the Prevention and Combating of Poverty, this work resulted in a broad public and institutional consultation that brought together more than 800,000 online citizen participations and nearly 11,000 proposals for citizen workshops throughout the territory. Citizen participation is available online, as the Government has made commitments to transparency. Technical work was subsequently initiated, involving some 30 public administrations due to the scale of the reform. As you know, however, this work has had to be stopped as a result of the health crisis. The Prime Minister recently announced the resumption of work on the universal income of activity, we will resume this technical work where we have left it in order to give substance to this support mechanism, both financially and in terms of accompanying it. They will be finalized in the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u54	Colleagues, it would be good if the chatter did not cover the voice of the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u55	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups. as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] The establishment of a public debate on basic income cannot therefore go back to the fields covered by this two-year work and, of course, the lessons learned from the ambitious public consultation that has been launched. That said, the contribution of national representation, which is made through a wide range of approaches, as we have seen, will be essential in order to give substance to a mechanism that meets the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u56	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u57	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 119 Number of votes cast 117 Absolute majority 59 For adoption 106 Against 11
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u58	The next item is the discussion, in accordance with the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the single article of the draft law aimed at improving the conditions of parental presence with a child whose pathology requires sustained support (No 3422, 3579).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u59	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I call the single article of the bill, which is the subject of an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u60	The Secretary of State for Children and Families, in support of Amendment No. 4, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] We have had an opportunity to discuss this at length during the consideration of this bill in committee, and you are therefore aware that the Government fully shares the objective of this proposal, which aims to respond to situations in which the disease and care continue without interruption, requiring a mandatory presence and care for a period exceeding the current 310 days of care within three years. By this amendment, the Government therefore lifts the pledge of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u62	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I express a very favourable opinion and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for all the attention given to this proposal by the Government, as well as all the members of the committee, who have brought this bill together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u64	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u65	During the hearings, the associations of parents whose children are seriously ill, injured or disabled reported a lack of information on the part of the administration, the CAF – the family allowance fund –, the departmental house of disabled people – CDMH –, medical staff, the social worker of the hospital, and the payroll and human resources management services in the companies. There is a lack of homogeneity and information. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ensure that the Government submits to Parliament, within six months of the enactment of this Act, a report on the equal information of actors. The contribution of the bill is commendable, but its scope will remain limited if parents are not aware of these arrangements. This amendment aims to improve the information of parents who may be eligible for parental presence leave – PPC – and the daily parental presence allowance – AJPP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u67	It is true that during the hearings leading up to this debate, the associations have informed us of the difficulties that might arise when implementing these new provisions, particularly in the field of information. In committee, we learned about the Minister's commitments on this issue. I would also point out that under the Social Security Financing Act for 2020, we have asked the Government for a report on the AJPP, which is expected to be submitted in January 2022. Finally, we have asked the chairman of the committee to set up an information mission to monitor the application of the future law, in which we can look at the information of families and the timing of the processing of cases. For these reasons, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u69	We share your concern about the information and access of parents to these rights. I propose that, following the rapporteur, you withdraw your amendment. I commit myself, as I did in committee, that solutions to improve the information of parents of children with serious illnesses should be included in the report on the compensation for caregiving leave, which must be submitted to Parliament by 1 January 2022 at the latest. It will also deal with the AJPP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u70	Do you maintain the amendment, Mrs. Thill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u71	In view of the commitments made by the Secretary of State and the creation of a parliamentary mission, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u72	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u73	I will withdraw it for the same reasons as the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u74	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u75	On the basis of the fact that the majority of women stop working to care for their sick child, we call for the Government to submit to Parliament, within six months of the enactment of the Act, a report to assess the effects of these interruptions on the professional career and to propose solutions to encourage fathers to take more parental leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u76	On the vote on the bill, I have before me a request for a public vote by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u77	We have also raised this issue in committee. There is no need for a report to understand that it is essentially women who devote themselves to supporting children. The figures are available, the National Fund of Family Allowances – CNAF – published them: at the end of 2019, of the 2,300 single parents receiving the AJPP, 2200 were women. That is enough to shed light on our discussions. The report to be submitted to Parliament will include a reflection on this aspect and provide further insights. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment, Mrs Chill. [[Applause on all benches]] Madam President, I would like to take this opinion on the last amendment and to thank the Government once again, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs for listening to it, the members of this committee and all the groups for agreeing to the examination under simplified procedure and for having adopted this bill unanimously in committee – which may give rise to an identical vote in committee – as well as to my group for allowing me to propose this text. Finally, let me say a big thank you to the associations that play a key role in clarifying our path and accompanying each other in the difficulties they face: "Growing without cancer", "Help Marina", "Eva for Life" and the National Union of Parents' Associations of Children with Cancer or Leukemia, UNAPECLE.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u79	It will be a request for withdrawal, for the same reasons as those mentioned above: this issue will be taken into account in the report submitted to Parliament. It will assess the impact of the measure introduced in the Social Security Financing Act for 2020, which allows the splitting of leave to facilitate the sharing between the two parents. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Paul Christophe, as well as all the associations which, we saw with this subject as with a child's bereavement leave last year, allow those who develop public policies to grow up, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u80	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs. Thill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u81	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u82	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u83	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 97 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u84	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u85	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u86	The next item is the discussion under the simplified examination procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of Mr Christophe Euzet's proposal for a law and several of his colleagues to promote France's accents (No 3580, 2473).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u87	In accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall call only the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u88	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u89	First of all, I want to say that I like accents very much and that I support their promotion as an integral part of our cultural heritage. Why am I opposed to Article 1 of this proposal as to the next two? For two reasons: one is on the calendar and the other is on the bottom. Firstly, it seems to me that there is a question of expediency, although I readily acknowledge, Mr rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, that you are not responsible for the parliamentary timetable. At a time when France is going through an exceptional health crisis and a major economic crisis, as it faces a series of terrorist attacks, how could the French understand that the National Assembly is devoting time to such a text? It's kind of incongruous. Secondly, I disagree on the very substance: your proposal does not promote the accents, it merely acts, in a coercive way, by punishing discrimination – or supposed discrimination – of persons with an accent by adding this criterion to the list in article 225-1 of the Criminal Code. It's not a good process. Let's put an end to this tyranny of victimization that makes all things look at from a victim's position. This bill, of course, wants to place on the same level discrimination based on origin, sex, pregnancy, morals, sexual orientation, political opinions or disability. I find it inappropriate, inappropriate or even indecent to place disability-related discrimination and emphasis-related discrimination on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u90	Mr Christophe Euzet, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u91	I am delighted, Mrs Ménard, that you began your remarks by recalling that you had at heart the promotion of accents, dear to our native South. As far as the timetable is concerned, you know, as I do, that the parliamentary niches, since the 2008 constitutional review, have been allocated to minority groups according to an agenda that they do not control. It has been a coincidence that our bill is being considered today. However, I would like to draw your attention to the consistency of the texts that the Group of the European People's Party is defending on Thursday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u92	I would like to extend my supported greetings to the Group of the European People's Party and to its chairman, Olivier Becht, who immediately perceived the importance of this text. I am convinced – and here I fall the shirt and tie, to become a little more human – that this is a real problem. We all know that many of our fellow citizens are under-represented in the public speech and sphere of expression, and studies have shown that they are under-represented. To reverse this phenomenon and better represent the diversity of accents, we must start with something. [[Applause on the banks of the groupAgir ensemble]] Our bill is essentially aimed at combating discrimination in hiring and in professional promotion – and not, as I have read, at prohibiting humour, a characteristic feature of our country, which I am obviously defending. Policies to combat racial discrimination have never banned the distribution of the film What have we done to God? ; the promotion of the cause of the disabled has not prohibited Kad Merad from sitting in a wheelchair in Welcome to the Ch'tis; the fight against discrimination against homosexuals has not prohibited the dissemination of sweet Pedal and cursed Gazon; The fight against discrimination against the origin and neighbourhood of residence has not prohibited the dissemination of Neuilly's mother! I am aware of the limitations of the work we have undertaken, but we are doing useful work when we call for the reintroduction of the diversity of pronunciations in France and for its representation on television. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u93	Mr. Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u94	Mr rapporteur – I say with a smile – you make us want to go back to the cinema! On the other hand – and I say it more seriously – you can be human by keeping your tie, and not when you don't wear it. It seems to me that you are asking the question badly, Mrs Ménard: discrimination is not opposed, but is compounded. Since the legislative arsenal includes the fight against discrimination linked to the place of residence, it is natural that there should be added the discrimination linked to the emphasis. That is why I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u95	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u96	As soon as we talk about accents, like regional languages, this is never the right time... The fact that we are going through a pandemic does not prevent us from thinking about long-term issues. There was a time when equality between men and women was considered a matter of low importance; The right to vote was granted to women only in 1944, and was made effective in 1946. Until then, it was not a problem – in 1924, the National Assembly even denied women the right to vote. Let us move forward in the fight against discrimination! [[Applause on the banks of the groupAgir ensemble]] Employment discrimination based on emphasis exists. In some media, you will never be presenter if you do not have a standard accent, i.e. an accent of Parisien intra muros. It is refusing to represent France as it is – and it is a shame. We don't hear the accents on French television. It was in the Chamber that I had the impression, for the first time, that France was fully represented, when I heard Jacques Cattin and his Alsatian accent, Fabien Di Filippo and his Mosellan accent, or at the time Carole Delga and his beautiful Toulouse accent. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the media; I hope they eventually understand it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u97	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u98	In your litany of the discriminations covered by the Penal Code, Mrs Ménard, you mentioned pregnancy and disability. Pregnant women cannot be considered to be disabled; However, the Penal Code recognizes that they are discriminated against, as well as persons with disabilities. I'm lucky to represent a constituency where accent sings like cicadas. The accent is an emblem of southern France, and yet it is without accent that I make the voice of my constituency. You can have the accent in the heart and in the head, and represent it even if you don't have it in your mouth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u99	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u100	Once again, I assume the role of the naughty little duck... As a Member of Parliament for Béziers, I obviously love accents. But in Béziers, we're proud of our accent and we don't pose as victims. Your bill does the opposite: you are on the side of repression, and therefore of some victimization. I ask you to see the positive side of things, as the title of your bill invites – contrary to its content. When I saw that you were proposing a law promoting France's accents, I rejoiced: no doubt I would agree, because in my South as in yours, Madame Mauborgne, we have accents that sing. I ask only to encourage them, not to apprehend them through the penal code. Why always aim at repression and prohibition? For once, I would have liked to see the positive side, that of promotion. On the other hand, the discrimination against pregnant women in hiring is even more important than those aimed at accents! Finally, even if I admit that we do not hear enough the accents in the media, we cannot say that they are completely absent from the public sphere – I think the Prime Minister, journalist Jean-Michel Aphatie or singer Francis Cabrel: they have not made careers that demerited!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u101	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u102	Ah, Mr. Lassalle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u103	[[Smile]] [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] With no accent, I will allow myself to speak in a debate that I find welcome, even if I do not vote for the text. In my time, whenever I could, I supported the cause of those who suffered very serious segregations. Let us recall the fighting that took place in the United States, and that has crossed humanity, for the simple reason that some are black, and others are white. In this respect, we must never stop fighting. I have also fought for the cause of women and the cause of the disabled, who have so many opportunities. But it's stronger than me: I don't want to ask for charity. I don't want to ask for protection. Yet I've always been told, "With the accent you have, you'll never do anything! " I've proven the opposite. You were quoting this brave Jean-Michel Aphatie: imagine that he was born thirty kilometers from my home, and that he went through many courses to alleviate his accent. A LCI journalist whose name I forgot, and who doesn't invite me anymore, will know why – I thought I was invited for a whole show, while it was for two minutes... – absolutely wanted me to say that I would defend this bill. Yes, there are obstacles to overcome, but do we not deserve to assume what we are, and to wear the colors of our accents high?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u104	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u105	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] I have nothing against the authors of this bill, to which I recognize good intentions – because not everyone has had the same chance as me. For my part, I will never ask for forgiveness, and I will never ask for the protection of the French Republic to be as I am. Yet I can say how much I suffered, and what it cost me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u106	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u107	I will add a few words of support for this bill, which also affects the Overseas Territories. I hear the divergent views, which call for emphasis before sanctioning their discrimination. In practice, people who suffer from such discrimination on a daily basis need protection; One doesn't go without the other. Our bill takes a first step towards bringing this matter to national debate and raising awareness; It's not alpha and omega, I agree, but it moves the debate forward and reminds us that the small acts of racism of having fun with accents – because it's a form of classical racism, almost part of the way – can harm some. Last year, together with Stéphane Claireaux, Member of Parliament for Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, we conducted a study to support the audiovisual sector in the overseas territories. During our hearings, we gathered a host of testimonies showing how the overseas producers were being harmed. When they offer films to national channels, they are openly asked to "clear" images, to remove accents and to caption dialogues, although they are perfectly understandable. It is a reality not only of individuals, but also of entire companies and sectors, which are affected by this phenomenon of sorting and discrimination by emphasis. Some of you compared the grounds of discrimination. We have never intended to compare discriminations as serious as those affecting women with those relating to accents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u108	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u109	A few years ago, I tabled an amendment on discrimination in the area of bank home ownership...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u110	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the groups Action ens. and LT]] In short, I invite all of you to support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u112	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u113	[[The speaker highlights her accent]] [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I give my full support to Mr. Euzet, who was mocked at his bill. France in all its differences is also the France of accents. I am proud to be French, but as a daughter of Algerian returnees, I was mocked at school for my accent, that of ours, that of the place there. Yet it is an integral part of our history. Let's be proud of our accents, let's be proud to be French! For this, I thank Mr Euzet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u114	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u115	In turn, I thank Christophe Euzet for introducing this bill. You were talking about victimization, Mrs. Ménard. Be aware that in 1971, when my parents and I came up from our small village of Camargue in Champigny-sur-Marne, in the Paris region, I was mocked for my accent at the college. Let's not let our children be victims. As Mrs Mirallès, a native of Languedoc, said, France is beautiful and diverse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u116	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, SOC and LT groups]] The women didn't ask for charity, Mr. Lassalle. They did not ask for the protection of the Republic. They have fought for decades to be recognized as citizens, as workers and as self-governing women who control their bodies and motherhood. After various votes, the law of the Republic gave them reason and confirmed their right. Let us therefore not oppose the fight against discrimination and the fact that the law of the Republic gives reason to those who have been discriminated against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u118	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u119	The Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats supports this bill. We attended the hearings chaired by the rapporteur, where he referred to discrimination linked to the emphasis. Perhaps they do not have the severity or intensity of other forms of discrimination, but we have been shown that there is discrimination related to the emphasis on hiring, including in the public service. That is why this bill must be adopted. I am thinking in particular of professions based on oral expression, such as journalism. Of course, the counter-examples exist: Jean-Michel Aphatie is very famous, for his talent and especially for his accent of the Basque Country, precisely Soule. However, there are many journalists whose careers are barred or to whom are entrusted only reports on cooking and rugby or weather sequences. Such discrimination must be taken into account. Again, we will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u120	Thank you, Mr. Member of Parliament for the Basque Country. It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u121	[[Laughs]] I don't know if Mr. Aphatie would like to be more known to you for his accent than for his talent... It is true that this text does not constitute the alpha and omega of the fight against discrimination. Like all the relevant legislation, a difficult probative question arises: how to demonstrate that one has been discriminated against in relation to a particular factor. But what will you say, Madame Ménard, if you arrive tomorrow in your riding a 20-year-old who claims that he has not obtained a position to which his diplomas allowed him to claim because of his catchy or ultramarine accent? Will you tell him that you did not vote in favour of this bill? On the other hand, protecting each other does not amount to asking for charity. The Republic must, in anticipation, protect each other. Again, this text is probably not a revolution, but from the point of view of principles, it seems to me important that no one should be discriminated against because of its accent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Finally, I was already convinced that this text should be defended and adopted; From now on, I'm unconvinced! The Assembly is rich in the diversity of its members' accents, their experiences and the difficulties they have encountered because of their accents. Each one of you is the fruit of his story and the memories you have told us end up convincing me that it is essential to pass this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u122	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u123	This editorial amendment gives me the opportunity to say a word briefly: it is not a question of victimizing or asserting the pride of an accent – the problem is not there. It is only a matter of doing a useful collective work by opening a debate and setting a first milestone, before the audiovisual bill that we will soon be considering and in which we can, perhaps even more constructively, encourage the signing of charters and agreements designed to promote France with accents, to which I note that we are all deeply committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u125	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u126	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u127	Our country has far too many problems for us to oppose an issue which, in essence, brings us together; I have heard what the minister has said, and we all agree. The slaves, Madame Buffet, did not ask pity; They were revolting. The women did not ask pity; They also revolted and I found myself in their fight as I find myself in that of a number of people with disabilities. I'm just saying: I can't be insulted to suspect that I'm talking without accent. Nor could anyone insult me to deny that I paid for this very expensive accent and that I continue to pay for it – but I don't pay that much. The accent, as far as I'm concerned, is rather an alibi. I may have expressed myself too abruptly, but I would have the feeling of insulting my father, my mother, and those who beat them if, because I speak as they were speaking and because France, in no other way, was built around a state, in the course of the reigns and then of the Republic, with the contribution of its provinces, it could no longer love itself to the point that it would be necessary to ask for the protection of those who speak a language different from that of the three Parisian arrondissements that decide on the life and death of the country. I am listening to Mr Aphatie, since he was mentioned: he did everything to lose his accent, but in vain! It's not my fault. I prefer to remain what I am because, to this little game of litany – the Bretons, the Basques, the Alsatians...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u128	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u129	I'm leaving right after, Madam Chair: don't always interrupt me on this subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u130	I am not interrupting you, I would just like to point out that your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u131	Can you give me another moment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u132	Finish your speech, Mr. Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u133	In the end, we have come to this point, considering the accent of the suburbs, the fact that almost everyone speaks with an accent. Are we going to have to legislate for everyone except for three Parisian boroughs? Thank you, Madam President, for your great patience; I'm going to go now gradually.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u134	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u135	I will not go back to the arguments already developed; My amendment is forbidden. Two points, however: firstly, I made it clear in the introduction that I am obviously in favour of promoting regional accents, which are, in my view, an integral part of our cultural heritage. So don't make me a bad trial in this House. On the other hand, I agree perfectly with what Mr Lassalle said. You are considering the spirit of this bill in the wrong direction, through the prism of discrimination and, therefore, coercion rather than promotion. I fully understand that Mr. Lassalle is proud of his accent and that he would have the feeling of denying his parents. [[Ms. Michèle Peyron protested]] Finally, we sit as deputies in the Chamber to make the law, and the law applies to all. Could the episodes of "Radio Ma vie" stop? I do not understand that the law is for me or based on my personal experience: I do it for everyone, and it is this principle that I feel should preside over here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u137	From the beginning of my speech, Mrs Ménard, I welcomed your position on the accents. We can, if you wish, open a debate on positive discrimination, but the lawyer teaching public law that I am is not particularly in favour of positive discrimination by principle. It turns out, as Mrs Buffet rightly pointed out, that when we set a milestone in positive law by highlighting discrimination, the situation of the group that is the victim of discrimination is beginning to change. On this issue, my position has changed a lot: as we ban discrimination over the years, attitudes change after the fact. That is why we are laying a foundation stone, which will have to be followed by much more constructive acts. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u139	Disadvantaged for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u140	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u141	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I will not tell the story of my life, as Mrs Ménard would say, but I have from the Basque family – in the constituency of Mr Lassalle – and from the Ariege region, and I spent 90% of my life in Alsace. However, some accents are the subject of real discrimination. The accent of Alsace is also its history. Even on television, I remember this very shocking moment when an actress, whose name I'll keep quiet, called the Alsatians of Boches. Even today, one can see – I have lived it myself – that the emphasis really bothers in recruitment interviews for certain positions; They are accompanied by connotations that arouse ridicule – and that pose a question. That is a reality, and that is why I support this bill and thank our colleague Euzet for defending it. Beyond promotion, it may be necessary to combat discrimination against people who have not been born where they are wanted to be born or who do not have the emphasis they would like to have. We must recognize this diversity and be proud of our history and that of our country and its territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u142	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u143	We must continue to work in a positive way, that France adopts the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and that we adopt an ambitious policy to show that, in addition to our formidable language of no other kind – I mean French, which brings hope and independence of mind throughout the world – many languages have been forgotten by the Republic. Whether spoken in the beautiful ends of France overseas, in mountains, in plains or elsewhere, they all embody France! It's all about making it a positive demonstration. I am glad that this text has been tabled, but I cannot sign it because I would feel that I am right for those who claim to be right against me and others. I want to fight them in another way: face to face, eyes in the eyes, with pen and verb, as the French tradition of Paris, the provinces and elsewhere wants!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u144	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u145	I speak very briefly in response to the rapporteur, so that my remarks are not distorted. I have not spoken of positive discrimination but of promotion, because I would like the text to be considered from a positive point of view. On the contrary, I find the notion of positive discrimination appalling; I certainly won't defend her here. I talked about promotion, and promotion is simply through our respective talents – but surely not through coercion and discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u146	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u147	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Being elected from Colmar, Alsace, I could talk to you with or without the Alsatian accent. The accent, in essence, is only the oral support of our attachment and our presence in the terroir, and of the history of the terroir in question. Alsace has a particular history, which has been blurred between France and Germany as a result of tragic events. But we have often been stigmatized, not because of our accent, but because we were forced to demonstrate that we were more French than French, and that we were accused – alas, this is still happening today – of being Germans or even Boches. In other words, this bill is not so much about the emphasis as a source of stigma and discrimination, but also about this situation – and this text will not change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u148	Amendment No 4 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, which seeks to delete the article, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u149	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u150	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 6, on the additional rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u151	This is a coordination amendment, the adoption of which was suggested to us by the human rights defender, which reminded us very timelyly that, among the texts we were amending, we had forgotten to mention the Act of 27 May 2008 laying down various provisions for adapting to Community law in the field of combating discrimination. It is a matter of filling this gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u152	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u153	It's editorial. I take this opportunity to address my greetings to the keeper of the seals, who, quite rightly, in my view, defended this bill. I also express my gratitude to the chairmen of the groups and rapporteurs who have worked with us and mobilized in favour of the text, to all the groups that supported it during the committee's debates, as well as to all those who are not present in this House but who, through their continued support for almost 18 months now, have encouraged me to continue along this path and to stand before you today to support this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] Perhaps we will be right in Schopenhauer, who said: "All truth is three steps. First she's ridiculed. Then there is a strong opposition. Then it is considered to have always been obvious. I hope that today we are in the time of evidence and adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u155	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Government accepts the congratulations addressed to it – it does not happen every day – and gives a favourable opinion on the editorial change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u156	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u157	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 102 Number of votes cast 101 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 98 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u158	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u159	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u160	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Dimitri Houbron, Olivier Becht and several of their colleagues improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response (No. 3427, 3582).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u161	Mr Dharréville has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u162	It is based on Rule 86(4) on the time limit "that separates the electronic provision of the text adopted by the Commission from the beginning of its consideration in the sitting". I have just learned that the text discussed yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs – the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification – was put online this morning and that we have only six hours to amend it, since it will be discussed at the sitting starting next Monday. This is deeply unacceptable. I therefore request an extension of the deadline for tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u163	She's pushed back to tomorrow, seventeen o'clock, Mr. Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u164	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u165	I call Mr Dimitri Houbron, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u166	First of all, I would like to express a special thanks to my group, Mr Becht, for the confidence it gives me on a daily basis, and especially today, in defending this bill. I would also like to thank you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for your support of this text, as well as your services, who have worked with our group to further enrich it. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to the administrator of the Assembly and to the parliamentary attaché of my group who have accompanied me in this process: without these workers of the shadows, we would be in danger of legislating. It is not without emotion that I address you from this rostrum, to which so many great women and men – I am thinking of Simone Veil or Robert Badinter – have succeeded each other, who still today symbolize the greatness of the Republic and guide my steps as a young Member. While history is written in this place, it is with humility that I express myself here. It is with particular pride that I introduce this bill, which, I am convinced, will improve community justice and the criminal response. Our judicial institution – sometimes misguided, often misunderstood, always committed – must be hailed and supported, because defending justice is defending the rule of law, this heart beating political democracies. The effectiveness of rights, in the sense given to it by the philosopher Simone Weil, is the prerequisite for any confidence in justice. Nothing would be more fatal to our democratic edifice than the feeling of justice whose principles would remain at the stage of rhetoric, to the detriment of a pragmatic analysis of reality. It is only by guaranteeing this effectiveness that we can collectively rebuild and rebuild the full confidence of our fellow citizens. To rebuild this fragile trust and to fight its corrosion, we need first a justice capable of responding to the challenges of its time. The French are attentive to everyday disputes and to the fact that small offences receive an effective, proportionate and rapid criminal response.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u167	Our debate is held at a time when constant tensions are irrigating our territories, which the actors on the ground are well aware of. The French people are fond of justice. That this trait of our country is sometimes pushed to extreme forms of protest is a well-known fact. This is our common challenge: to restore the effectiveness of justice to the cement of our republic. That is why all those who attack our institution and weaken justice and its work bear an immense responsibility for the very frailty of our democracy and the rule of law. This bill is the result of work with the judicial and prison actors, first in my constituency of course, but well beyond, through all the hearings that we have conducted. In this regard, I would like to thank all the actors interviewed for the richness of our exchanges, and in particular the SPIP – the Prison Service for Integration and Probation – of Douai, the Prosecutor of the Republic of Douai and the lawyers of the Douai Bar for their contribution. The report on the work of general interest, the TIG, by my colleague Didier Paris, was also a source of inspiration. Several of its recommendations have also been reflected in the 2019 reform. This bill is in some way a continuation of the bill. It is important because it deals with a crime that the courts do not always have the capacity to deal with when it has a negative impact on the lives of our fellow citizens. It will make it possible to give a definite criminal response to petty crime. Our group rejects the rule of impunity for those who, by their daily incivilities, weaken the balance of living together. Alternative measures to prosecution serve these requirements. They are the vectors of a certain and rapid criminal response to the small crimes of everyday life, by giving the possibility of sanctioning without incarcerated where, as we know, incarceration is desocializing and criminogenic. While short prison sentences ostracize and often radicalize small offenders, alternative measures to prosecution and community service are a stepping stone to reintegration and place individual responsibility at the heart of the scheme. This is the meaning of Articles 1 and 2. Article 1 deals with alternative measures to prosecution. When an offence is committed, the public prosecutor has the opportunity to prosecute. It therefore decides whether or not the acts alleged against the person require prosecution. Since 1999, a third criminal procedure has been introduced: the famous alternative measures to prosecution. They allow the offender, whose criminal record, in general, is blank, and who acknowledges the facts, to have his or her record closed and his or her record left blank if he or she complies with the measures imposed by the prosecutor. In other words, they are an opportunity granted by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the offender. But be careful, this opportunity is not free. In order to benefit, the offender must comply with the obligations imposed on him or her by the prosecutor or his delegate. In the event of the failure of these measures, the Public Prosecutor's Office will, of course, initiate ordinary criminal proceedings. Among the alternative measures to the prosecution permitted by this bill, the prosecutor or his delegate may ask the offender to restore what he has deteriorated, according to the principle: "You break, you repair" – a concept to which my group members are particularly attached, in particular my colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel, who was already defending this idea during the campaign of the municipal elections. They may also require that the object or proceeds of the crime be handed over to the authorities, or ask the offender not to contact the victims, co-sponsors or accomplices and, finally, to pay a citizen's contribution to a recognized victim support association. Article 2, which has been supplemented by the amendments adopted in the Committee on Laws, aims to promote the use of community service, a criminal sanction imposed by the court on a person who has committed an offence and which provides that the person must work free of charge for a period fixed by the judge. This effective measure, which is endorsed by both the judiciary and the public, contributes to the reintegration – which must be encouraged – of the individual by giving him a real place in society. This bill allows prison officers in the integration and probation services to take control of the implementation of this work of general interest. This procedural adjustment will allow for a considerable fluidisation of the articulation between the pronouncement and the effective application of the TIGs. The legal arsenal exists, so our law will enable judges to effectively implement these measures. Article 3 of this draft law provides for the strengthening of the effectiveness of penalties imposed in respect of contraventions and to facilitate the recovery of flat-rate fines by introducing a reduction in the amount of the fine for fifth-class contraventions when they are lumped out. Finally, Article 4 provides for adjustments necessary for more effective appeals to the Criminal Division of the Court of Cassation and the Courts of Appeal. You will have understood this, without revolutionizing criminal justice, this bill is intended to be useful and pragmatic. Enriched by the work of colleagues from other political groups, it seems to bring us together beyond the labels. I see this as a sign of significant progress for our institution. I would also like to thank all the Members of the various groups for the content of the debates in committee and for the richness of our discussions. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. Ms. Naïma Moutchou also applauds]] We will never do justice anything other than a human body and, therefore, necessarily imperfect. It is precisely for this reason that we will probably continue to have endless debates on issues on which, at times, we will remain irreconcilable. It is also for this reason that we will never give up offering what forges our vocation and our role: the legitimate hope that the French must place in justice. It must never give up on its part of humanity and the hope it arouses among our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u168	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u169	I am very pleased to continue with you this morning with the consideration of the bill to enhance the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response. As the Prime Minister called for in his general policy speech, the French need justice closer to their daily lives in the heart of territories, towns, villages and neighbourhoods. We cannot neglect the expectations of our fellow citizens in terms of security and protection. This is why community criminal proceedings must be improved and sometimes even rethought. Some incivilities and offences are ruining the lives of our fellow citizens. This small crime of everyday life must be better treated, because it often goes unnoticed in the face of urgent public action and the most serious acts. But it harms as many people as possible. This proposal for a law by the Group of the European People's Party is precisely in line with the road map we have set ourselves in order to improve the response of the public authorities to this crime. For this reason, I would like to warmly thank President Becht. As you know, the improvement of the local justice system that I call for is through three means: increased resources, voluntary criminal policy and criminal provisions, and enhanced effectiveness. First of all, with regard to the additional means – the nerve of war – the 2021 budget that I have defended and voted for will give justice unrivalled means for twenty-five years, allowing, at the same time, the catching up of the law of programming 2018-2022 and of reform for justice and the financing of my priorities, among which, of course, in a central way, the justice of proximity. It is, let us recall, an exceptional budget, not only in terms of its amount – EUR 8.2 billion – but also in terms of the massive increase in recruitment that we have already launched. With regard to the more specific means allocated to the community justice system, 1100 jobs will be created for the judicial services, for the judicial protection of young people and for the correctional services of integration and probation. It is therefore EUR 13 million which will help to encourage the recruitment of magistrates who are either honorary or temporary and the costs of justice will benefit from an increase of EUR 127 million to increase the intervention, essential in the field of community justice, of the prosecutor's delegates. New medical and judicial units or community assistance for victims will be created, 20 million euros will benefit the community community from the judicial projection of young people in order to strengthen the rapid handling of everyday crimes. Finally, EUR 10 million will be devoted to the development of electronic surveillance and anti-approximation bracelet. As you can see, the means are obviously up to the stakes. Better community justice is second, a voluntary criminal policy that guarantees the resolution of small disputes and the care of our most fragile citizens. In this context, I would like to see better coordination of judicial action in relation to prefectural services, mayors, elected representatives, associations, and public prosecutors' officers as close as possible to the territories. I also very much believe in the strengthening of the activities of the local courts, the organisation of fairground hearings and the development of permanent offices in places of access to the law for the prosecutors' delegates, for example. As I indicated in my general criminal policy circular of 1 October, I would like to increase the scope of action of those delegates who are doing outstanding work and providing a close and high-quality criminal response. Their role must be strengthened. I have asked the public prosecutors to ensure that they are mobilised so that they are as close as possible to our citizens. This mobilization must allow for more reactive responses to the petty crime of everyday life. In full synergy with this bill, I will shortly sign a decree that will allow these prosecutor's delegates to carry out their duties in places of access to the law or in any other place designated by the prosecutor. This will allow them to hold fairground hearings. Finally, I wanted them to play an increased role in crime prevention. This decree will enable them to represent the public prosecutor in the authorities for the prevention of crime and in the joint administrative commissions of the local authorities with the aim of improving the treatment of daily delinquency. The improvement of community justice is finally more effective penal provisions to combat incivilities. For it is not necessary to amalgamate or confuse all crimes: there is organized crime and serious violence against persons, acts which, of course, require appropriate responses of which the prison is part; But there is also the petty crime of everyday life, that which is parasitizing the lives of the French and which also requires an appropriate response. Incivilities and minor offences must be dealt with quickly and constructively: this is the subject of the bill that we are now considering. The provisions of this text go, I believe, in the right direction, first of all because they complement the alternative measures to the existing ones. The public prosecutor may thus request the offender to restore the site or objects that he or she has damaged or to compel him or her to pay a citizen's contribution to a victim support association. These sanctions, both punitive and educational, are best able to prevent recidivism, particularly with regard to first offenders. I also very much believe in simplifying the way in which the work of general interest is carried out, which is a constructive response to petty crime. It does, however, make sense only if it applies quickly. The longer the penalty is removed from the date of commission of the facts and the less appropriate it is. Today, however, the average time for carrying out work of general interest is fourteen months! I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen, fourteen months! That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u170	That's right! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u171	Two years ago, the Agency for the Work of General Interest and the Occupational Integration of Persons in Justice was set up to develop jobs of general interest. To date, 21,000 people are employed in communities; The places of reception and the referents are there: we must now reduce the time limit for the execution of this sentence, and the provisions contained in this text will finally allow it. The diversion of part of the procedure will indeed be the lever to achieve this. The same will apply to the removal of the compulsory medical certificate to be produced by the convicted person, as this document is an identified factor slowing down the execution of the measure. Finally, the bill fills some gaps by improving the effectiveness of the judicial response. This is the case with the extension of the system of the reduced flat-rate fine to violations of the fifth class as well as other violations, and with regard to the consideration of the recommendations of the Court of Cassation aimed at simplifying the procedure of withdrawal of appeal and enhancing the effectiveness of the processing of appeal proceedings in cassation. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mr. Pierre-Alain Raphan also applauds]] I would like to warmly thank the rapporteur Dimitri Houbron and his colleague Didier Paris, for they have made it possible to enrich the original text by adding several of the provisions that I have mentioned, as part of a legislative co-construction that we all wish for when it comes to the justice of our country. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to recall the two requirements that I wish to emphasize in my capacity as guardian of the seals, so that justice remains at the heart of our republican pact: the restoration of local justice and, more generally, the strengthening of the effectiveness of the criminal response. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that this bill makes a significant contribution to it for all the reasons I have put forward, and the Government is enthusiastically proposing that it be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u172	Mr Olivier Becht spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u173	Cicero said before the Senate of the Roman Republic that "justice must be cultivated for itself". You will allow me to add, a little more than two thousand years later, that it must also be cultivated for others, for society, because the purpose of justice is above all to make us better, that the sanctioned people become more respectful of the rules of living together. You are right, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that you have recalled that the incivilities, the small deteriorations of everyday life, are, unfortunately, the most numerous facts, just after the attacks on people, which are now being dealt with by criminal justice. And these facts are not only serious because they violate the law, but also because they degrade the daily lives of our fellow citizens, their living environment: burning a trash can, tagging a wall, often aggressive inscriptions against society, destroying the bench on which the mothers of the family sat or damaging the children's playgrounds, this amounts to damaging the daily lives of the French. The purpose of the bill is to facilitate the criminal response to the type of degradation I have just mentioned. I will rely on a few examples. As Members of Parliament, we represent the nation here, but we do not come from anywhere, we have a past. I had the honour of serving for ten years as mayor of Rixheim, a municipality of 14500 inhabitants located in the south-east of the Mulhusian agglomeration. I noticed quite quickly that what was of concern to the inhabitants on a daily basis was this petty crime, the fact that, in some quarters, garbage cans were systematically burned, walls systematically tagged and children's games systematically destroyed. All too often, however, the response was the replacement by the municipality itself of the damaged equipment. The inhabitants then said: "It is unfair because, in the end, every time something is destroyed, it is the taxpayer who releases the checkbook, while the perpetrator of the act risks nothing or almost anything, only to be summoned to the gendarmerie, to get his ears pulled and to receive a reminder to the law because it is well known that burning a garbage can will not result in six months' imprisonment. In the end, we concluded that what had been broken or damaged would no longer be repaired or replaced with the taxpayer's money, unless the perpetrator denounced himself and undertook to participate in the reparations. The prosecutor of the Republic, to whom I spoke at the time, had told me that he did not really have legal tools to do so, but that, anyway, he did not take any risks, observing: "If you think that the kids who committed degradation will come to denounce themselves, Mayor, you are a sweet dreamer. » A little time spent, it's true, until these teenagers or young adults came to me and said, "Mister Mayor, you know, we realized that the ones we had penalized were our own families and not society. The rubbish that was dragging on the floor because there were no more garbage cans, the mothers of families who could no longer sit on the benches to watch the children play: it had become the real problem of the neighborhood, not only that of society, but also of the people who live there on a daily basis. And these young people agreed to repair because they were then ready to fix their mistakes. "The young people are here, they are ready to repair," I announced to the public prosecutor. He replied that he was going to do what he could with the legal tools at his disposal, because he had committed himself to it. And these young people repainted the walls, reforged trash in the professional high school, rearranged the benches and playgrounds; They fixed their own neighborhood. [[Approvals on the benches of the Action ens group]] Then, not only did they respect what they had repaired because they had done so, but they also demanded the same respect for others. That is what our group is promoting together: educational sanctions as a response to petty crime. This obviously implies that their authors are identified. That is why we voted this week on the comprehensive security bill, which strengthens the powers of municipal police and their coordination with the national police and the gendarmerie, making it easier to apprehend them. But then we have to go to reparation, to what my colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel proposed for the Parisians during his campaign in the municipal elections: "You break, you fix. You're dirty, you're cleaning up. Well, yes, that's what this text proposes: a punishment-repair is needed, as an effective, rapid and effective response, without putting an excessive burden on the courts. We know that they last months and that, when the penalty comes, several years after the facts, it no longer makes any sense. It is therefore necessary, in parallel, to develop this work of general interest, which makes it possible to make concrete reparations for the damage caused. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. and on some benches of the LaREM group]] That is the answer that we are proposing today to the French so that not only justice, but also and above all society itself, may be better. That is why the Group of the European People's Party calls on you to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u174	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u175	The purpose of this bill of the "Acting Together" group is to take into account the commitment made by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to restore community justice in order to combat the incivilities and delinquency of everyday life. The IDU and independent group is obviously in favour of this objective. We all report, on a regular basis, increasingly numerous and violent behaviours that undermine the lives of our fellow citizens and our country. If we have heard the Government on its major projects on the subject, we must, for the time being, be content with the text that we are now debating. It is about living together, about this "thinking about the other" that has fled our educations since the predominance of "me first". Living together is indeed sick. Our group, of course, supports the desire for a close and effective criminal response, a question which this text has the merit of addressing. But it does not contain anything really new, even if the simplification of the procedure for public service work, the lump-suming of certain infringements or the modification of the procedure for withdrawal of appeal are good practical measures. Other proposed mechanisms, on the other hand, question, starting with the new citizen contribution: how to interpret it? How can we ensure the relevance of this hybrid device, the nature of which lies between punishment and reparation? By force, we are working on the benchmarks of criminal law, whose understanding may become difficult for all litigants. In addition, we have no guarantee of effectiveness for the proposed measures. What will be the monitoring of the fulfilment of these obligations? Prosecutors will never be able to carry out this additional task. Finally, simplifying the way in which work of general interest is carried out: yes. But this must not lead to its complete diversion. Indeed, if its terms and conditions can be entrusted to the director of the prison administration, this change must not be the prelude to the eventual exclusion of the judge of this system, who has nothing to do with it. Thus, it must be noted that the measures contained in this bill seem far from the ambition of the explanatory memorandum: to restore proximity justice to combat daily incivilities and delinquency by enhancing the effectiveness of criminal responses. Completing article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with multiple paragraphs is not likely to be a major step forward in simplification. This text is an opportunity for us to once again question the Government on the lack of chronic means of justice. As long as its budget is not significantly increased, although it has been unsurpassed for 25 years with its €8.2 billion, there is no point in proposing any new measure. You know better than anyone how much we run after a bunch of post-it in the court halls! As for video conferencing, it does not solve this phenomenon in any way; On the contrary, it builds inhuman justice through a screen. The IDU and independent group will nevertheless vote for this text for the few simplification measures it proposes and in order to encourage steps towards a criminal policy closer to our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u176	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u177	The Assembly therefore has before it, within the framework of the Parliamentary niche of the "Acting Together" group, a bill aimed at facilitating the use of alternative measures to prosecution, at the same time as the courts are overloaded. The Libertés et Territoires Group supports the initiative to give the public prosecutor the opportunity to ask a convicted person to make a "citizen's contribution" to a recognized victim support association. Indeed, in addition to giving them greater readability, this will also strengthen the central role of these associations in the fight against what they denounce. The development of these specialized structures will have a twofold effect: not only the strengthening, ultimately, of the rights of victims, but also the accountability of the offender, through a concrete awareness of the seriousness of the acts he has committed. For the same reason, our group is in favour of raising the maximum limit of hours of unpaid work from sixty to one hundred hours. Indeed, the criminal response cannot only be repressive: it must also take on a pedagogical aspect. In this sense, we fully support the obligation of the public prosecutor to impose on offenders the completion of a parental responsibility course. Spousal and family violence are too many – we all regret it. It is therefore our duty to provide a firm response to these acts, which must above all be understood and accepted by the author himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u179	Indeed, we are witnessing a change of mentality in this area – and it is difficult to change attitudes; There is therefore a need for a set of complementary measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u180	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u181	The protection of victims is thus a priority for the Freedom and Territory Group. Accordingly, the introduction in article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the possibility for the public prosecutor to "ask the perpetrator of the offence, not to meet or receive, for a period not exceeding six months, the victim(s) of the offence", is in the right direction. The extension of the time limit to six months should, however, be discussed because the potential for violence does not, unfortunately, disappear in six months. As regards the simplification of the rules on the implementation of work of general interest, we believe that it is appropriate to deepen the existing possibilities. If this simplification is necessary for the democratisation of the TIGs, we must be coherent. That is why we are in favour of raising the ceiling from 280 to 400 hours for TIGs. However, we recall that the implementation of the TIGs requires reception places, follow-up and care. It is normally up to the Agency for Labour of General Interest and for the professional integration of persons in the hands of the judiciary to respond to this need. However, the target of 30,000 posts by 2022 is far from being achieved, as we are not yet at 20,000 posts. We do not make this desire to democratize the TIGs a mere ambition. On the other hand, let us give effective means to the competent persons to make more use of the TIGs, which now receive only 7% of the sentences handed down. Article 3 provides for the extension of the provision of the reduced flat-rate fine to fifth-class contraventions and harmonises the treatment of the same category of contraventions. This will improve the readability, for the potential offender, of the penalties it faces and will allow for a more coherent legal framework. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] The text is therefore in the right direction, which is why our group will support it. But while providing a swifter and fairer criminal response is a commendable objective, it is our duty to stress that this bill will strengthen the powers of the prosecutor or the prison administration to the detriment of the judge. We therefore remain attentive to the fact that most of the decision-making process continues to depend on the judge's assessment. Moreover, we believe it is important to make concrete progress on the independence of the public prosecutor, who, if given more powers, must be neutral in its essence and impartial in its decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u182	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u183	You said, minister, that justice was needed closer to the daily lives of the French in every city, in every village, in every neighbourhood. Rather, I share this objective, which I believe is important in the judicial history for the last twenty years, which seems to me to be characterized by a distance from justice and the citizen – who in any case feels so. Before proceeding to the substance of the text, which deals almost exclusively with criminal matters, I would like to point out that the bulk of judicial activity is a matter for the civilian. However, if there is one area in which citizens complain about the slowness of the justice system, in the cases that concern them, it is, to take this example only, that of family affairs for which the delays are longest. And, beyond the fact that the main parties concerned complain about this, it creates a sense of distrust of justice in general and of the judicial institution in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u184	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u185	So I'm going to the criminal aspect. We are against your proposals, Mr rapporteur. Of course, in detail, when someone has broken something, a remedy rather than a fine or a prison sentence, I think it's smart: that's what juvenile criminal justice is doing and it's working pretty well. Only, you extend the powers of the public prosecutor to the de facto detriment of the magistrate of the seat, to the detriment of the judge. This is an already well-established movement since, as was not the case before, most of the proceedings are made of alternatives to prosecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u186	Half...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u187	It's already a big song and if the rate reaches 50.1%, then I can use the adjective "essential". In any case, with this text, the proportion will be 55 to 57 per cent. However, we have still not done the reform of the Prosecutor's Office and it is still not on the agenda. I hope, like many other colleagues – which I know for having chaired a committee of inquiry on the subject – that we will launch this reform aimed at making the prosecutor's office independent. In addition, a certain nobility must be retained in the proceedings and in the criminal proceedings as such. The excessive length of the criminal trial cannot be the only argument for giving prosecutors more powers. Moreover, I am not sure that the latter are so demanding that they have new responsibilities, especially since there are still not enough of them. And even if the budget of justice increases by more than 8 per cent – the bulk of this increase, which still benefits the prison administration – there will be only fifty additional judicial posts in 2021. That is always the case, of course, but it is clearly insufficient in view of the democratic objectives that we must set ourselves. In addition, we have a substantive disagreement that the sentencing judge is no longer given the opinion in the case of a TIG. I know that this is already a state of affairs, that it has become the functioning of the prison integration and probation services; I know that everyone is overwhelmed, in particular the enforcement judge, who simply gives a stamp at the bottom of an administrative decision taken by the SPIP. But is it our role as legislator to validate a state of affairs that is not satisfactory in terms of the rationale for the accountability procedure of the sentencing judge? Our opposition is therefore of substance, but it is also of form. Again, the solution we are advocating is to increase the number of sentencing judges, even though, in theory, with the latest criminal reform, they should be able to concentrate on the enforcement of sentences, since it is expected that the sentences will be given more in court, particularly with regard to ab initio sentencing arrangements. But we're not there yet, considering the practices since last March, and I'm putting the covid-19 crisis aside. There are therefore a large number of reforms to be carried out, before offering more power to prosecutors in order to make justice faster and more immediate. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] I am not sure, moreover, that speed is necessarily the corollary of good justice. This is not the first text of which this is the main argument: we should go faster because it would be better justice. I don't believe it. Of course, when business lasts three, four or even five years, it's a problem; but wanting to speed up the immediate appearance is a nonsense since this procedure is already very fast. On the contrary, there are areas in which there is an urgent need to slow down the course of justice so that it can do its job, for both the victim and the culprits. Accelerating the course of justice will also be the main argument when it comes to juvenile criminal justice. I disagree: sometimes it is better to take your time to make a good decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u188	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u189	We all share a goal here: to deliver justice that respects the rights of the defence and of the civil parties by responding to the acts committed, as soon as possible. We are defending justice that will make it possible to redress the crime committed against the victim, but that will also enable the offender, once his sentence has been served, to reintegrate into society. You are referring, Minister, to the local justice that you want. This bill is intended to do so and we share its intent. However, we wonder: in the name of efficiency and speed, does the text not affect the rights of stakeholders? The appropriations of the "Justice" mission, in the draft finance law for 2021, are up by 8%, an increase that the group of the Democratic and Republican Left legitimately welcomed. However, this budget appears above all as a first step in the catching-up that justice needs. We do not share the view that we can do justice faster and fairer without giving it the necessary human resources. If the delays in dealing with cases appear far too long, it is not by resorting massively to alternatives to prosecution that we will increase the quality of the criminal response given. A person who commits an offence needs a response that is commensurate with the act committed in order to understand his or her actions and to prevent him or her from reoffending. These responses require a calm reflection on the part of prosecutors and the time required to properly examine the files. However, there are too few prosecutors and substitutes, and we are concerned that the number of posts that are planned to be created is not sufficient to respond to this expansion of their prerogatives. Nor should we diminish the position of the victim, who also needs a real criminal response and reparation that takes into account the harm suffered. We also question the creation of a "citizen contribution", which is in fact a fine, and the verification of its recovery. We regret, therefore, that the bill does not strengthen the solutions for monitoring the responses given in the case of alternatives to prosecution. However, progress has been made in broadening the scope of the measures covered by the text. Of course, we are in favour of redressing the damage caused, banning the meeting of accomplices or banning the search for contact with the victims. But we also know that alternatives to prosecution do not represent the same guarantees as the prosecution itself, and we cannot be satisfied with situations where the rights of litigants and victims are not respected. We also question the diversion of work of general interest by entrusting its terms and application to the prison service of insertion and probation rather than to the judge of enforcement of sentences. Although, in practice, this procedure is often applied, it is merely a reflection of a lack of resources given to judges. The amount of time you are looking for is therefore minimal and, in this context, we are not in favour of levelling down the procedures adopted. Without a guarantee of follow-up or control, these diversion procedures could eventually degrade the power and action of the justice system, in contrast to what we want. The legislator must ensure the functioning of human justice and protect freedoms and rights. In addition, we question the concept used here of community justice, as it is a matter of recourse to criminal proceedings and not to civil justice. We believe that there is a real link to restore between citizens and justice. In this regard, we regret the abolition of the local courts and the loss of staff, particularly in the case of local judges and court clerks. Last July, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced in his general policy speech the return of local judges from 2021 onwards. While we have heard that the Government is seeking to bring citizens closer to justice and overcome judicial deserts, the announcements made remain unclear; We do not know which courts will have them and precisely what their tasks will be. In the Seine-Saint-Denis department, France's second jurisdiction, magistrates, clerks and lawyers have been alerting us for years to the lack of human and material resources and, despite initial advances, there is an urgent need to provide lasting answers. [[Mr Hubert Wulfranc and Mr Pierre Dharréville applaud]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u190	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u191	That has been said on several occasions, we are pursuing the goal of faster, more effective criminal justice in the face of a crime that does not always say its name, a crime of everyday life, in the face of the increasing incivilities, are too often repeated, tolerated and undoubtedly create tensions, misunderstandings and resentments in the population. They also contribute, as we can see throughout the day, to undermining confidence in our security forces as well as in our justice. Combating this situation calls for political will with means. I do not go back to the means: the minister has made extensive reference to the unprecedented increase in the department's budget. It is important that this text particularly targets prosecutors' delegates, mediators, judicial officers who play an absolutely fundamental role and offer the perpetrator a way to amend himself, as well as prompt reparation to the victim. The political will is there, we have no doubt at all. It was expressed on several occasions by the President of the Republic, and the Prime Minister here confirmed it in his general policy speech on 15 July. I would also like to greet Eric Dupond-Moretti, our keeper of the seals, who has made it one of the most important axes of his strategy since his arrival, without any possible challenge, not only in the direction of our fellow citizens – that is the meaning of this text – but also in the direction of the elected representatives: I have the memory of your visit, Minister, to Dijon, with elected officials, perfectly well-perceived. The elected representatives of the nation are too often confronted with intolerance by our fellow citizens and more generally with the rejection of our institutions. The criminal response has been very diverse. No one can seriously challenge, at the top of the spectrum, the absolute necessity of pre-trial detention, but many other mechanisms are in the hands of the public prosecutors, from alternatives to prosecution, which we are talking about today, to the criminal composition, which is already a conviction, to final convictions, whatever their form, as long as they are consistent with the criminal history of the convicted person and the violation of the social pact. Contrary to the preconceived ideas of the proponents of "all law enforcement", alternative measures to prosecution constitute an effective criminal response, a true inclusion in the judicial process. It would be different if the person had no contact with the judicial authority, but it is taken over by a public prosecutor – a contact that is not daily for most of us – and then, or if necessary, by a delegate or mediator. Alternative measures have the dual advantage of making use of the offender's understanding of his or her fault – we do not talk enough about it, but they have a powerful pedagogical effect which is a determining factor in the fight against recidivism – and of placing the victim at the centre of the decision, through the reparation granted to him or her. It is precisely in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, that the PPL of the Group of the European People's Party acts together by reinforcing the alternative measures. Some are already provided for in the Code in the area of regularization and reparation. The text also provides for very important complementary arrangements for the prohibition of encounters, which are often a fundamental point of good balance of court decisions, as well as the very innovative citizen contribution. But, for some, appearance before a correctional court is absolutely necessary; In view of the seriousness of the facts, this court does not always escape. It is there that the TIG, which is a conviction, registered in the criminal record, takes its place – I am also thinking of unpaid work. The TIG has been radically revised, dear colleague Molac – I would remind you that the 400 hours have already been voted in the law of 23 March 2019 – but not until the end, which is why the PPL's proposals on this subject, which I myself presented in a report in 2018, seem to me to be very consistent. It is necessary to simplify and speed up the procedure, so that the judge of the enforcement of sentences devotes himself to the bulk of his task, which is a judicial task and not a task, I would say, material, logistical, to which he is too often confronted and which does not allow him to devote himself to the work that society expects of him. However, one of the brakes of the TIG is the length and the heaviness of the procedure. Mr. Minister, you have reminded us on several occasions, including in this chamber: fourteen months is short for a man's life, but it is very long for the effective management of delinquency and for the offender to understand the reality of the measure. The challenge is therefore, I repeat, to simplify and speed up the procedure. We are obviously not in the context of a revolution of French criminal procedure, which would require any further debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u192	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u193	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] ... but this PPL presents undeniable, useful progress, which will undoubtedly bear fruit. I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and the rapporteur, Dimitri Houbron, for this proposal which the LaREM Group fully supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the time allowed to everyone. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u195	As I indicated during the examination of the text in the Law Committee, the Republican Group will vote in favour of this bill. It addresses the issue of the effectiveness of the judicial decision. It does not upset the judicial organisation or the criminal policy of our country; It is a text of limited scope, to which we subscribe, whether it be its content, with some reservations, or its spirit. Yes to the principle of zero tolerance, that is to say to a systematic response to all offences and even all incivilities. Yes to a strengthening of the individual responsibility of the authors when they commit disturbances to public order. Yes to an agile and rapid response from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, to criminal acts. We agree, Mr rapporteur, with the objective of this bill, which is to provide a criminal response acceptable to the author, to the victim and to the public. A clearer, more direct and firmer judicial response in the criminal chain to reprehensible acts, they were seen as accessory or minor, goes in the right direction. Our citizens' expectations of public tranquillity, our expectations of citizenship, respect and national cohesion, imply a clear, direct and understandable criminal response by both the author and the victim. Judicial responses also contribute, beyond the treatment of the offence, to the legitimacy of the judicial authority: in a troubled period, institutions must hold, especially the judicial institution. Beyond the quality of a court decision, the criteria of social acceptance are often proximity and speed. Defending the judicial institution is vital, of course, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. The judicial institution regulates the differences of the social body, contributes to its appeasement and cohesion – you talked about "living together" a moment ago. Therefore, in any text, in any attitude, in any practice, pleading tirelessly for the defence of the judicial institution, working to support the judicial authority and its virtues and tracking, where appropriate, its flaws and weaknesses, is a constant struggle. Let us beware, however, of a diversionary movement which, in the end, would weaken the judicial institution that we want to defend. Let us always look at the role and the place, in the very sense of the function of the magistrate and the auxiliaries of justice in the handling of our country's cases. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have understood that the Republican Group supports this text, which goes for us in the right direction. Beyond your proposals, particularly as regards alternatives to prosecution, to make the response of proximity more effective, there is above all this spirit which contributes to bringing the citizen closer to his or her justice. It is necessary, at all costs, to defend the judicial institution: the major question remains and will remain that of means, the "nerve of war", to repeat your words, Mr. keepers of seals. The question of the means that our country is prepared to devote to the functioning of its judicial institution is in no way dealt with in this PLP, of which it was certainly not the object. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, on this point we have a difference of view. Even if you have done what it takes to increase them this year, the means are not, at the moment we are talking, and in relation to the stakes for our country, commensurate with the needs required by the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u196	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u197	Too often, too often, victims feel that crime remains unpunished. Too often, our law enforcement forces feel like they're always running after the same people. Too often, offenders have a sense of almost total immunity from public action. This text on community justice and the criminal response of our colleague Dimitri Houbron and the Agir ensemble group is fair and relevant. With pragmatism, it is in line with a perspective of efficiency and tends to meet several expectations of our fellow citizens, who have long alerted us to the consequences of incivility and delinquency of everyday life on this "living together" that we cherish so much. Through this bill, we seek not only to improve the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, but above all to allow new alternatives to prosecution. A faster, more systematic, more effective and more pragmatic response is needed to the acts committed. The first chapter strengthens the possibilities for the prosecutor to respond agilely and directly to crime, before considering more stringent measures, such as the criminal composition or the resumption of prosecution. We must ensure that these measures are both easy to implement, quickly followed up and proportionate. These are transactional measures, i.e. conditional on their acceptance by the perpetrator, which can therefore also refuse them without any consequences other than the continuation of the proceedings. These measures, with the exception of those provided for in Article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, are not binding on the perpetrator. If they are carried out, the public action is extinguished and, if not, the prosecutor may continue the proceedings. First of these so-called restorative measures, the reminder to the law. I will propose an amendment to move it to the end of Article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that it becomes only a subsidiary measure. Allow me to point out that the reminder to the law is neither a criminal sanction nor a compensation solution for the victim. Its initial objective, which is highly commendable, is to avoid recurrence. It must enable the perpetrator to become aware of the offence. If, in the texts, this measure obviously has the virtue of pedagogy and if it can be effective for a primary offender, in the reality of everyday life, this tap on the fingers has little effect on some offenders. Some even face real challenges: it is to whom the maximum number of reminders to the law will be collected – the fact is true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u198	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u199	Montesquieu had already highlighted the danger of the absence of prosecution. He said: "Let us examine the cause of all the relaxations, we will see that it comes from the impunity of the crimes, not from the moderation of the sentences. The reminder of the law must not be diverted by becoming a loophole, as is too often the case. It is important in all circumstances – we will ensure that the prosecutor can always propose it – but it should not be privileged over other provisions. To conclude with the first chapter of the bill, I thank the committee for having adopted my proposal to give mayors a place in the measures already planned. In the small communes, it is he who is the receptacle of grievances and who takes full advantage of it, but he is also the one who knows his fellow citizens and who will be able to find the remedial measures that will discourage recidivism. As regards Chapters II and IV of the text, they are almost unanimous in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats. These chapters contain technical measures to improve the efficiency of the work of general interest and to simplify and optimize the appeal procedure. A word, finally, on chapter III, which provides for the reduction of the fifth class of contraventions: it is not a question of reducing all the contraventions of this class, but only those corresponding to the offences which are the subject of a decree in the Council of State. The fifth-class contravention remains, for most offences, a criminal fine imposed by the judge, which may be accompanied by additional sentences of deprivation of rights or liberty. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] Finally, I would like to congratulate and sincerely thank our colleague Dimitri Houbron for this bill, as well as for the remarkable work of preparation and co-construction that led to its drafting. The Group of the European People's Party (MoDem) and allied Democrats is very much in favour of all the provisions contained in the text before us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u200	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u201	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u202	The Action Together Group is now submitting for our consideration a text aimed at improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response. It must be said that these measures are in no way a revolution for justice: they merely make some changes to the criminal procedure. However, the Socialist and Related Group believes that some of these measures are in the right direction. Thus, article 1 allows the judge to prohibit the perpetrator from coming into contact with the victim(s) for a period of not more than six months. This is a good thing, because the only prohibition to appear in certain places, currently provided for by law, was not always enough to fully protect the victims. Another example: several measures provided for in article 4 literally include requests from the Court of Cassation in its annual reports for 2018 and 2019. These measures will not have very important consequences for the litigants, but they are in line with a rationalisation of the procedure. With regard to Article 2, we have been sensitive to its rewriting following the exchanges in committee between the rapporteur and my colleague Cécile Untermaier, concerning the competence of the enforcement judge for the suspension of the 18-month period. However, we remain opposed to this article. On the form, its new wording still presents some ambiguities. Why, in particular, did you delete the passage indicating that it is the director of the SPIP of the department of residence of the convicted person who is competent to decide on the modalities of a TIG? Similarly, the addition in Article 2 of the statement that the TIG must be such as to promote social and professional reintegration is simply unnecessary. SPIP officers systematically receive individuals who are required to perform a TIG. Obviously, they are already doing their best. It is therefore unnecessary to add that clarification to the law. On the merits, article 2 seeks to remove the jurisdiction of the enforcement judge for the benefit of the Director of SPIP in deciding on the modalities for the implementation of the TIG. It should be recalled that the role of the sentencing judge is to determine the main modalities for the execution of custodial sentences or certain sentences restricting liberty by directing and monitoring the conditions for their application. By introducing this provision, the proposed law gives the prison administration the powers of a judge. Without denying the important role of the SPIP, it is up to the sentencing judge to bear the responsibility for the decision and to give it, by signing it, the importance of a court decision. In addition, the relevance of such a measure can be questioned with regard to the installation, in 2020, of the digital platform of the Agency for Labour of General Interest and the occupational integration of persons in the hands of justice. This platform is intended to facilitate the sentencing of the public interest by identifying all the TIGs available on the national territory. As such, why burden the directors of SPIP with the census of the TIGs that can be carried out in their department since it will be precisely one of the agency's missions? Finally, Article 2a, introduced by an amendment, removes the systematic character of the medical examination prior to the execution of the TIG. I would like to recall the argument put forward on this subject in committee: convicts who often do not have a doctor treating or who have difficulty in contacting one, the medical examination would slow down the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because these people do not have a treating doctor and suffer from health insecurity that this medical examination is necessary! The whole question is what meaning we give it. Should it be understood as an administrative measure to be dispatched or, on the contrary, designed and programmed in the interests of the convicted person? [[Mr. Régis Juanico applauds]] As you will understand, the Socialist and related group remains committed to the medical screening. We cannot, under the guise of simplification, go against the interests of people and their health. Therefore, our group's position on the bill will be forbearance, because we are committed to the role of the sentencing judge and to medical screening for all. However, we recognize the efforts of the text and the rapporteur to streamline certain aspects of the criminal procedure and to take into account the repeated requests of the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u203	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u204	Our justice is sick. So you decided to go to his bedside and propose alternative measures to make it more effective. Unfortunately, these measures are no longer used for their possible performance, but rather because they allow the courts to be freed from congestion. They are no longer but a substitute, a back-up solution and, to say the least, the mark of justice at the expense. These alternatives to prosecution are seen as a lack of punishment by chronic offenders, the very ones who, according to the bill, "poison the lives of our fellow citizens." As you know, the absence as such encourages recidivism. The common feature of all these procedures is that there is never a judge involved. As for the prosecutor's delegate, he is often less impressive than a judge in dress and court. His intervention has, moreover, a perverse effect: in his contact, the defendant, when in good faith, does not really understand that he has committed a criminal offence. The text proposes more and more alternatives to prosecution. The prosecutor will now be able to choose, without prejudice, in which case the victim must be compensated – he will himself determine the amount of the compensation – or in which case a prohibition to meet a person must be imposed – like an investigating judge or a judge of freedoms and detention! This desire to provide alternative measures to prosecution poses a major problem: the exclusion of the victim! The latter will not be able to file a civil suit before a prosecutor's representative. In order to do so, it will not only need to obtain information that it often does not have, but also to obtain the decision and subsequently bring the matter before a civil court at its own expense. Furthermore, what possibility will the victim have of availing himself of the decision, which is not a judgment, and of having it enforced if the accused fails to comply? Nothing is planned for this eventuality. As you know, the rapporteur, Mr Minister, justice from which the victim is excluded is not justice. That's not all. You wish to remove from the sentence enforcement judge the competence to decide on the arrangements for organising work of general interest and transfer it to the director of the SPIP. This transfer is, moreover, reminiscent of that of the competence to re-evaluate maintenance payments from the judge to the director of the CAF – the family allowance fund – which is widely contested in the light of the arbitrariness which he risks introducing into the decision-making process. The temptation is always the same: it is to unload the judge by entrusting his task to an administrative post on which the defendant has no hold. As you can see, I am not in favour of such transfers. In order to combat petty crime, why not create, on the contrary, a judge of small offences like the judge of the police court? Small crimes – theft, contempt, incivility – could be included in his jurisdiction, and small offences could be dealt with quickly and even immediately for those who deserve a prompt criminal response. In this type of procedure, the victim is informed of the hearing and there is a debate on sentence and reparation. All this, of course, requires resources, which are insufficient today despite recent budgetary efforts. That is what a true justice of proximity should be! The best way to combat the incivility and delinquency that the French are victims of on a daily basis is to apply real sanctions, not alternative measures, which do not have the credibility of a criminal repression that meets the challenges we face. For there is a continuum between incivilities, so-called daily delinquency and serious delinquency or crime: those who commit serious crimes and crimes also commit many incivilities and small offences. Criminology has long recognized that much of the crimes and incivilities were committed by a small number of very prolific offenders: it is estimated that 5% of offenders would be responsible for more than the majority of crimes and offences known to the justice system... In order to combat daily delinquency, it is unnecessary to add alternative measures to the prosecution already provided for by law. The only way to do this is to impose prison sentences on chronic offenders released or released too quickly – exactly the opposite of the path taken by the bill. To do that, I agree, we need prison places. Emmanuel Macron had promised 15,000: the account is not there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u205	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u206	I will begin by replying to Ms Ménard, recalling that the bill proposes to extend alternative measures to prosecutions for small offences only, not for offences that justify imprisonment. I would add that the proposed measures represent 50% of the current criminal response and have been used for more than 20 years now. They are a first level of sanctions and a tool for the prosecutor to avoid a hearing and a lengthy procedure. These measures therefore respond to the need for an effective and rapid response. I thank the various speakers who have spoken for defending each other's vision of justice. I respect the different conceptions, among them those of the Communist Party and of La France insoumée. We all agree that it would take three times more judges and courtrooms, but we must take into account the reality: the budget of justice is not extensible and the triple of its resources is a utopia. It is in this sense that we have sought, with the help of professionals, solutions to meet the interests of justice and of those who are litigants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u208	I have also heard the concerns expressed about the work of general interest, in particular the manner in which it is carried out and the fact that the judge responsible for the enforcement of sentences would lose jurisdiction in this matter. If this can reassure you, the representatives of the judges of the application of the sentences heard during our work were in favour of article 2 and its drafting: the principle is to give competence to the prison services of insertion and probation, without deleting that of the judge who can return to the file if he considers it useful. We thus adapt to reality. The integration and probation services, which are doing a truly admirable job, will benefit from an increase in their budget and staff so that they can better handle the cases. Their director, a Category A staff member who has passed a very difficult competition corresponding to a particular requirement, has skills that may not have been sufficiently advanced so far. The purpose of this bill is to give it responsibilities consistent with its capabilities. In any case, these services have all my confidence. Concerns have also been expressed about citizen contribution, an innovation that may attract criticism but which I believe deeply in pedagogical virtue. It will be able to benefit from victim support associations which, since the 2019 reform, have been subject to an approval guaranteeing their seriousness. I tend to believe that the perpetrator will become more aware of his actions, if he is forced to contribute financially to the support of an approved victim support association. What about the victim's place? This bill has at least the virtue of giving it a place from the stage of alternative measures to prosecution, which was not so far the case, by means of two provisions: the perpetrator may be prohibited from contacting the victim and may have to pay a citizen's contribution to a victim support association. It is therefore unfair to blame us for forgetting the victim in this process. In any case, I thank all of you, as well as the groups that will vote for this bill, while respecting the abstention of others and the unfavorable opinion of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u209	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u210	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u211	How difficult it is to evoke these questions without falling into a kind of unbearable manicheism that makes us lose all sense of nuance! First of all, Mrs Ménard, I would like to say to you that we are talking about incivilities that mostly concern children, often underage and primordial. That you wanted to answer it by prison is your choice, your vision of things. For our part, we want to improve an already old system, the work of general interest, which has borne fruit and proved its worth, but which works badly, in particular because it intervenes too late. That is the main issue of the bill that we are considering today. Thank you, MP Viry, for reminding us that the divisions, which may oppose us, are sometimes transcended by the need to go together towards just things. Thank you for your commitment to community justice, I think the majority can only be sensitive to it. The criminal response must be prompt, systematic and fair. We deplore the lack of speed that we are trying to remedy, but it is a highly flammable subject. The rates of criminal response and enforcement of sentences are satisfactory in France. Justice is regularly accused of being lax. It is an unfair trial but it is true that it is too slow, including in civil matters, you are right – local justice is also civil matters. Proximity justice is available in different ways, as you recalled, Mr. Bernalicis, in the gallery. This text is one of the first bricks, but I will also introduce legislation for us to move forward, particularly in the area of civil justice. We have planned that magistrates will go to the poorest to do justice, moving from the courthouse. That's the least we owe to the most fragile. We have other provisions which, I am sure, will receive your approval when the time comes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] However, I should like to point out that the slow pace of justice is due to several factors, including budgetary considerations. I too would have wished for a budget twenty times higher, but I am already happy – sorry! – having obtained the best budget in twenty-five years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The slow pace of justice can also be explained by organizational factors, which must be looked at with great clarity. At the Chancery, I asked a magistrate to become the best practice advisor. It travels France from north to south and from east to west, in order to identify the methods that work well, the idea being to extend them throughout the national territory. Let's take a simple example: if you pass this bill, a prosecutor can seize a scooter used for a rodeo.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u213	As you are attached to your constituencies, you know that I have sent a letter to all the mayors of France, for the storage of these vehicles. This may seem like a small detail, but storage of vehicles is very expensive for the Ministry of Justice. That is the kind of partnership, simple things and common sense that make it possible to appease our fellow citizens. Mrs Ménard, rodeos are not very much a crime, but they are unbearable and rot people's lives. If I do not repeat myself, I would point out that there is a need for a prompt, systematic and fair criminal response. Let us continue on matters of concern to you, rightly, Mrs Buffet, Mrs Thill, Mr Bernalicis, Mr Leseul. Clearly, Mrs Buffet, you know the reality of the work done by the integration and probation services in conjunction with the sentencing judges. Is it a matter of restricting the judicial prerogatives of the judge? Not at all! He remains the judge and oversees the execution of sentences. However, its tasks are hampered by time-consuming administrative procedures, which will discharge it from the prison services of integration and probation, which are equipped for this purpose. Following the rapporteur, the judge will keep his hand on the case: he will be able to intervene at the slightest difficulty. Instead of talking about diversion, it should be pointed out that the judge will be assisted in carrying out certain chronophageal tasks. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] I will illustrate my remarks with two elements: I mentioned the first in my opening speech; the second, I drew it from an experience I just lived in the Chancery. There are fourteen months between the time a TIG is pronounced and the time it is executed. It's unbearable, it doesn't make any sense! We're talking about kids here. Before I was a minister of justice, I was a father of the family – and incidentally a lawyer. When a kid makes a mistake, can we give him an answer a week later? That doesn't make any sense. As far as petty crime is concerned, it is exactly the same thing: the answer must come immediately to remind the kids what the law is and show our fellow citizens that we are dealing with this type of crime. [[Smile on various benches]] At the Chancery, Mrs Buffet, I received a person to perform a TIG for five-year-old events. Do you know what this man of a certain age, very friendly, told me: "Happily I didn't have a job, otherwise I would have had trouble executing my TIG. This is where we are. It's unbearable. TIG is a good measure provided it is used effectively. Thank you, Mr Viry, for pointing out that these new provisions strictly remove nothing from the repressive arsenal, which is correct. Let us stop pretending that more alternative sentences will be used to avoid prison. This lax trial, I've got it over my head! Besides, I owe it to the truth to admit that no one did it to me here this morning. But do we ever know? I'm going to the medical examination, which concerns you, Mr. Leseul. Please be aware that this bill only aligns with ordinary law. A 2016 reform removed the requirement for a medical examination in favour of an information visit. Why? It is not at all a question of disregarding the right of the person who will be sentenced to a TIG, but this visit takes a considerable amount of time, which is part of the absolutely unacceptable delays in the execution of TIGs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mrs Brocard, I am obviously in favour of keeping the point of order, and I will have the honour to discuss it with you in a moment. I think I've answered everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u214	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u215	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 24, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u216	I call for the deletion of this article, which adds measures to the already long list of alternatives to prosecution listed in our Code of Criminal Procedure. Unfortunately, these additions will not change much to the problem they claim to tackle. The explanatory memorandum provides for the fight against incivilities and daily delinquency. In reality, these additions are aimed at real offences, even crimes, and not necessarily incivilities which, by definition, are breaches of the rules of civility and lie in the grey zone between what is morally condemnable and what can be legally punished. As I pointed out in my speech during the general discussion, these alternatives to prosecution are seen as non-punitive for chronic offenders. You're telling me, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that these are just the primordials? No, we're not just dealing with primordial offenders as part of alternatives to prosecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u217	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u218	I readily acknowledge that they are sometimes very young delinquents, but they may have committed the incivilities you talk about on many occasions. Hence my request to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u220	You already know him: he's unfavorable. Why? In most cases, alternative measures concern primary offenders, but in the course of the hearings, a prosecutor explained to us that they may sometimes be useful for repeat offenders. Sometimes an alternative measure, passed at a given time, allows a person, already condemned several times, not to return to justice, he told us. For my part, I fully trust the prosecutors to judge the opportunity to prosecute.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u221	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u222	These magistrates are able to assess the seriousness of the facts and the personality of the person who committed them. I am convinced that the magistrate must have the choice between different answers, in order to avoid lengthy proceedings. These measures are not sub-penalties; they are based on a contract between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the person. If the latter fulfils its commitments, it is normal for the case to be closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u224	Mrs Ménard, please forgive me for asking you a question when I should answer yours. Do you honestly think that the prosecutor of the Republic – from Béziers or elsewhere – will behave in the same way with a 16-year-old boy who is a primer than with a thirty-year-old boy – who is still young at the age of 30 – who is in his eighth offence? Trust the prosecutors! It is the prosecutors who will have at their disposal a set of measures from which they can choose. Let's not impose anything. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let me add that your question has something a little worrying for all those who listen to us, who are not necessarily lawyers, who do not know the rules of law as you know them. You put in the pipe of their ear that this bill will make these measures systematic. This is not at all the case, on the contrary: those who deserve these alternative measures will benefit, not the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u225	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u226	Thank you for that clarification, Minister! In order to avoid any trial of intent, I would point out that I have complete confidence in the prosecutors, that of Béziers in the first place, who is actually doing his job very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u227	Well! Withdraw your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u228	But there is the virtue of the symbol. In concrete terms, when a young teenager who committed his first stupidity – you call it incivility – finds himself for a reminder to the law before the mayor wearing his scarf and the police commissioner in uniform, there is the virtue of the symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u229	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u230	Yes, I do! It can be impressive for a kid who has committed a mistake to find himself facing these symbols of order. You're telling me that it's going to mostly benefit primordising people. First of all, it is not true that primary offenders are not the only ones who benefit from these alternatives to prosecution. What I pointed out in the discussion and that, perhaps, you did not hear correctly is that there is also the virtue of the judge's dress and that of the hearing. Maybe I'm not the right example, not being a delinquent...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u231	I can feel it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u232	... and being not, at least I hope, called to become it, but passing before a judge in dress and before a court, I believe him for having discussed it with magistrates of the seat and the prosecution, has a virtue and solemnity, which unfortunately are sometimes absent from the appointment before the only prosecutor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u233	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u234	You made a very small mistake, Mrs Ménard, but it is not a judicial one: in front of the mayor, it is not a reminder to the law, but a call to order. I also asked that the mayors be assisted by the prosecutors, precisely to give a kind of solemnity to this appearance. It is the assumption of the citizen who is not kind to the mayor, who insults him. I think it's important for the D.A. to be here. [[Smile]] If you think the dress changes everything, then ask the prosecutor to put on his dress and withdraw your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u235	Excellent! You can smell the job!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u236	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u237	In 40% of cases, the reminder to the law is used as the only response to cases dealt with by Article 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendment I am proposing is intended to limit its use by moving this measure from the first to the last place of this article and by making it subsidiary to other restorative measures. This reminder to the law has virtues but the fact that it is placed as a first step is rather a bad signal, as I explained in the general discussion. In our communes, it is often only a few individuals who sow the disorder regularly. Outrages, graffiti, damage to the environment, insults, incivilities: we all know that. Some may be the subject of dozens of reminders to the law before they are really worried. When they are, it is because of a real escalation in the gravity of the acts committed. I recognize that the recall to the law can be effective and indicated in a number of cases, including the first offence – the ones you took as an example – and I obviously trust prosecutors just as much as you, minister. But the fact that it is placed at the very beginning fosters the sense of impunity for offenders and the feeling of injustice that our fellow citizens can feel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u239	First of all, I would like to commend you for the work you have done in committee, Madam Commissioner, in particular by proposing an amendment aimed at improving coordination between the mayor and the prosecutor. On this amendment, on the other hand, the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion. The reminder to the law may suffice, as my colleague Ménard has explained, to prevent some young people, who have made a mistake, from being brought to justice. The purpose of this bill is precisely to extend the prosecutor's sanctioning capacity so that he can resort to anything other than a reminder of the law, including by deciding whether to make reparation or not to contact the victim. But it is true that this text relies on the confidence we have in the members of the prosecutor's office: we want the prosecutor to keep the possibility of choosing between the various measures proposed and we are against changing the order. I think that the order has little impact on the prosecutor's decision. Among this set of solutions, he will choose the most effective. That's enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u241	Madam Member, the order has little impact on this matter. I know that the reminder to the law is sometimes misused, but that is no reason to amend the law on this point. In fact, I myself asked the prosecutors in a circular that the reminder to the law be used less in the case of unbearable crime: it was the wish of the elected officials. I repeat, a reminder to the law may be enough to punish a kid who arrives before a prosecutor for the first time. The Government therefore requests that you withdraw this amendment, failing which it will request its rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u242	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u243	The use of a recall to the law may be an opportunity for some other kind of drift, when it is used to punish under-characterized offences. In some cases, the prosecutor prefers to issue a reminder to the law rather than to drop the rate of criminal response. This happens very frequently as a result of the protests...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u244	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u245	...we don't have enough evidence, but we're still going to issue a reminder to the law in case. Such a reminder may have a virtue when the facts are characterized, but it should not be used simply to say that something has been done, even though neither the materiality of the facts nor the guilt of the person has been verified. It is important to recall this in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u246	Probably!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u247	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u248	It is intended to give the prosecutor or his representative the opportunity to impose an environmental awareness course on the offender. This subject was discussed last week in the Committee on Sustainable Development in the context of the discussion for opinion of the draft law on the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I welcome Mr Souad Zitouni's commitment to this issue. In view of the particularly high number of offences which have the effect of damaging or damaging the environment, such an internship may be a particularly timely educational measure to raise awareness among the persons involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u250	I don't quite agree with you – it had to happen! That's why I'll give you a wisdom advice. Providing a specific internship for each new theme would make the scheme too complex, especially since the citizenship internship is already likely to address your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u251	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u252	In principle, I am in favour of imposing awareness-raising courses on environmental protection, when the infringement has led to environmental degradation. However, the list of internships provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure already opens wide possibilities, especially since it is not exhaustive: the prosecutor can propose something else on his own initiative. It goes back to the fundamental question of alternatives to prosecution or incarceration: the question of means. In many cases, there are no associations in which to carry out these internships, if not within problematic deadlines. If, in the case of minors, alternatives to prosecution or imprisonment can be directly dealt with by the judicial protection of young people, and not only by the voluntary sector, for adults, there is no direct treatment of alternatives to imprisonment or prosecution by the prison administration in the event of a lack of association. Again, I do not see any difficulty in relying on the fabric of associations, but I do not want us to be happy by voting on the possibility of environmental awareness courses and then the prosecutor finds only one association 90 kilometres away for one day of training every two months. I am alerting you to the question of means. As much as the TIG is put forward in budgetary terms, the rest sometimes leaves something to be desired, in particular the placement outside, which is very close to our hearts as everyone knows.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u253	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u254	I am of a different opinion: as many internships as possible are difficult to implement, especially social media internships, so much environmental protection benefits, and fortunately, very structured and well-distributed associations in the territory. You are right, Minister: citizenship can include environmental protection. However, as part of the project to create a European Public Prosecutor's Office, you have announced a strong initiative in environmental criminal law in the coming months. It would seem quite inconsistent to the LaRem Group that the bill does not specify the interest of these environmental awareness courses, while making it a major issue for our country. That is why we are rather in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u255	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u256	Having regard to the explanations of the Minister on the citizenship internship...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u257	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u258	... as well as the arguments put forward by my colleague Ugo Bernalicis on the practical difficulties encountered in the implementation of these courses, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u259	All right, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u260	It does not seem to be in the interests of justice that territorial disparities prevent some from benefiting from such internships.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u261	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-26-O1095.u262	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law to improve the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, submitted pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the evolution of the Constitution in order to enable the integration of sustainable development objectives into the legislative process; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on universal, rapid and equitable access to covid vaccine -19; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, for the establishment of a Mediterranean Renewable Energy Community. The meeting is adjourned.
