ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am saddened to announce the death of Mr François André, Member of Parliament for the third riding of Ille-et-Vilaine. The President of the National Assembly will pay tribute to him at the beginning of the Question Session to the Government this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u2	I should like to inform the Assembly that the President took note of the replacement in the second constituency of the Gard of Mr Gilbert Collard, elected representative in the European Parliament, by Mr Nicolas Meizonnet, from 1 February until the renewal of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u3	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u4	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to put his question, No. 980, on the illegal dumping of waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u5	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to the illegal dumping of waste in France, and more particularly in border areas, such as the eighth constituency of Moselle, where many communes such as Hayange, Boulange and Rédange, bordering Luxembourg, are facing this scourge with full force. Recent developments, which have been widely denounced by the inhabitants and reported in the local and national press, point to the introduction by some Luxembourg and Belgian companies of genuine traffic across the geographical borders of their countries of origin, in order to avoid complying with the regulations in force on their national territory. These reprehensible and unacceptable acts demonstrate to us the need to act collectively against this scourge and to mobilize institutional and local actors so that effective and lasting responses can be made quickly. We can no longer tolerate such acts which cause significant damage in terms of public safety. The Government is firmly committed to implementing a circular economy as early as April 2018. Studies were carried out last year to identify good practices in the prevention and control of wild deposits, under the guidance of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME. A working group had also been set up to propose legislative and regulatory amendments to address these wild deposits, which had provided input to the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy. Some areas have been clearly identified: increased power for public road surveillance officers in terms of controlling illegal depots, the use of video protection and new prerogatives for the presidents of public inter-municipal cooperation institutions – the presidents of urban communities – in order to enable them to control and sanction the abandonment of waste by dissuasive but also repressive means. Finally, in the face of the disarray of many mayors, a tool guide has been drawn up to help them sanction the abandonment of waste. But it must be noted that these measures still seem insufficient in view of the extent of the damage. Very committed to the preservation of the environment and aware of the environmental emergency that we face on a daily basis, my fellow citizens in the eighth constituency, particularly those of Redange, Bakery and Hayange, would like, like myself, to be informed of any additional measures that will be put in place by the Government to provide an effective and lasting response to the fight against this scourge, which I will call "eco-offence".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u6	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u7	Mr President, you have asked Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. The Government has made the control of wild waste deposits one of its priorities. The anti-spousal law you have cited, which will be promulgated in the next few days, provides for many measures, along three main lines. First, to address the root causes of illegal waste management, an extended producer-responsibility chain will be created on 1 January 2022 for building waste, allowing for efficient pick-up points and a free pick-up for sorted waste. Secondly, in order to finance the clean-up of wild deposits, the sectors concerned will bear part of the costs. In addition, the administrative fines paid by the authors of wild deposits will be collected by the communities, which will provide them with a budget supplement in return for their mobilization against wild deposits. Thirdly, the law strengthens sanctions to make them dissuasive. It also provides for several measures to facilitate the day-to-day work of elected officials. Access to the vehicle registration system and the use of video surveillance will facilitate the identification and sanction of the author of the wild deposit. Street surveillance officers will be able to sanction wild deposits, and human and financial resources can be pooled at the community group level. Finally, the working group on the subject, launched in 2018 and bringing together representatives of the State, local elected representatives, parliamentarians and other stakeholders, is continuing its work to identify new actions in the medium term. The State is actively combating the illegal transfer of waste to cross-border areas. For example, a joint operation between customs, the national centre for cross-border shipments of waste from the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and the Luxembourg authorities took place at the end of January to take action against wild deposits from Luxembourg and put in difficulty the community of communes of the Pays Haut Val d'Alzette. This operation allowed two cross-border shipments of illegal waste to be intercepted. The first concerned two tons of rubble, the second about 500 kilos of household waste. These two illegal convoys were punished and then returned to the Luxembourg border for waste treatment in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u8	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to put her question, No. 965, on the Bugey nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u9	Our need for electricity is expected to increase by 60% worldwide by 2040. Even if the Government pursues a voluntary policy to reduce electricity consumption, France will not escape this growing demand, first because it must supply its electric transport, then because it must accompany its reindustrialization, as well as the development of digital technology. We have set ourselves the goal of reducing the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix to 50% by 2035. The reality is that we are more likely to achieve this because of the growing need for electricity – which we can compensate for through the development of renewable energies – than by reducing the number of facilities producing nuclear energy. I'm here to talk to you about the Bugey power station in my department of Ain. The local elected representatives expressed their wish to include it in the new programme for the construction of a pair of reactors announced by EDF last summer. Hosting a pair of EPRs 2 is responding to national and international issues. It is also to counter the accusations of obstinateness made by the Geneva authorities and the complaints made by their lawyer. In a context of concern among elected officials about the future of the plant, can we know the timing of the decisions taken by the State with a view to the allocation of two EPR reactors to the Bugey plant?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u11	Madam Member, you have asked Ms Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, who, unable to be present, asked me to answer you. As part of the development of its energy-climate strategy, the Government has clarified its vision on power generation capacities. This vision has led to the Energy and Climate Act and multi-year energy programming, which is in the final phase of consultation. It leads to a reduction in the share of nuclear electricity in the electricity mix from 72% today to 50% by 2035. In order to achieve this objective, it follows from the work carried out by TEN on the balance of supply and demand that no new nuclear capacity is required until 2035. Beyond this horizon, the question arises of the new means of producing carbon-free electricity to be built. In the current state of knowledge, it is not possible to determine with certainty the most competitive technologies to ensure our electrical mix on this horizon. In addition, various legal, competitive, economic, industrial and environmental issues need to be addressed in advance. The Government had therefore launched a programme of work, linked to the chain of work, which aimed, inter alia, at identifying the benefits and risks of different scenarios. In addition to a 100% renewable scenario, EDF was asked to provide information on a scenario of six new RPRs, which is without prejudice to the decision to be taken. The conclusions of this work are expected by mid-2021. They will serve as a basis for the Government's decision, which, in any event, will not intervene until Flamanville 3 is put into service. In the event that the Government decides to start construction of one or more pairs of EPR reactors, the choice of construction sites will have to take into account, inter alia, the local will of the Territory to host a new plant, the environmental conditions of the site and the capacity of the electricity networks. Several configurations of settlement sites should therefore be examined and the reflections carried out within the framework of the Government's programme of work with the elected representatives of the territories concerned. In this context, I thank you for the elements you bring in recalling the ambition of the territory of the Bugey power plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u12	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u13	Thank you for your answer. Putting nuclear subjects on hold would be an aberration to me, because the climate emergency obviously requires the production of a decarbonized energy – nuclear meets this requirement – and because history has given us reason: choosing this mode of production is to maintain our energy sovereignty. The economy depends on it, as does the well-being of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u14	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Yves Bony, to put his question, No 972, on the damage caused by wolves in the Cantal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u15	The French Biodiversity Office announced in a report published on 27 January that the wolf had settled in five new so-called permanent areas. Here is an evocative figure: in ninety-seven areas of permanent presence where wolves live in a sedentary manner, there are eighty packs. The Agency recorded 530 adults last June, compared to 430 a year earlier. The latest balance sheets show a geographical increase of more than 6% between 2018 and 2019. In 2019, 3790 herd attacks took place in France, 5.4% more than in 2018. This is the case in the Cantal where there has been much damage to herds. The local situation worries farmers, desperate breeders, who have to face ever stronger predation, endangering the very survival of mountain farms. It is true that the State has drawn up several action plans to support herders and thus to allow the collection of wolves, but, despite the current scheme laid down by the experimental decree of 26 July 2019, which provides for several measures, such as an increase in the percentage of wolves that can be killed, the regularisation process unfortunately does not respond to the problem caused by the increase in the number of wolves in France. What measures do you envisage to reconcile the concerns of herders under the Berne Convention? Do you not think that the downgrading of strictly protected species into protected species would bring an improvement to the current difficulties of the breeders? On the other hand, each year the state sets a quota of wolves to be slaughtered. For 2020, the ceiling is set at 90 specimens. The wolf plan also provides for aid for the protection of herds, but these are not sufficient. Shouldn't we confirm to herdsmen an ordinary right to self-defence of herds?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u16	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u17	Mr. Member, you interviewed Mrs. Borne. The minister for the ecological and solidarity transition cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The natural return of the wolf from Italy in the 1990s is a good sign for biodiversity. However, I am aware of the difficulty of predation for the herders and shepherds who face it. While the trend at the national level is to stabilize the number of victims, despite the increase in attacks, an increase in the number of victims was observed in Cantal in 2019; you mention this in your question. Since the permanent presence of the wolf in this department was recognised in 2019, Ms.The Prefect of the Cantal will be able to take a decree, opening up to the farmers the benefit of the aid for the financing of the protection measures from 2020. This funding is part of the range of measures proposed since 2004 by successive national action plans to reconcile the presence of wolf and the maintenance of pastoralism. The plan adopted in 2018 offers new ways to reduce predation, protect herds and improve wolf shooting practices. To allow this complex cohabitation between pastoralism and great predators, we must constantly adapt our action. The Government therefore took further action in 2019. First of all, the ceiling for wolf shooting was raised from 10% to 17% of the population. I would point out, however, that shooting at wolves, a protected species, is only allowed to reduce predation. The funding of protection measures was revised in November 2019; a new compensation scheme, introduced in July 2019, re-aligns the compensation for wolf damage by more than 14%. A scientific council of the National Wolf Action Plan was set up in March 2019 to advise and guide the action. The Government will launch an observatory of protection measures in 2020 so that they are better implemented and more effective; The first analyses will focus on the most attacked farms. The Government thus supports the momentum created by the plan adopted in 2018, and remains committed to seeking actions to promote the coexistence of livestock and protected species.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u18	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. More effective solutions must be found quickly. The breeders are desperate; They are under constant stress, despite the efforts made and the means of protection mobilised – dogs, night groups and others – which have never reduced the annual number of victims. Wolf is progressing in all regions. It is false to believe that he is confined to the mountain; It can live in a wide variety of environments, and its presence is proven in peri-urban areas. We do not object to the presence of the wolf – simply, it must not harm men and their activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u20	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to put his question, No. 986, on transport in the Hauts-de-France region.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u21	The new grid of TER – regional express trains – from Hauts-de-France, financed by the taxpayer to the tune of 3 billion euros is a scandal, and highlights the sinking of regional transport policy. About 10 municipalities will be affected by train deletions. The users and mayors concerned have been confronted with the fait accompli and must undergo a brutal and unjustified regression. For example, since 15 December, the Meurchin station has lost a third of its service to Lille. However, the regional executive had indicated that the contract binding it to SNCF should not result in the closure of a line, station or even a counter. The abolition of trains is a hard blow for Meurchin, whose station was an asset to encourage young homes to settle in the commune. The measure also has a significant impact on the purchasing power of users who now have to use their personal vehicle. While the president of the Hauts-de-France region has announced, with a great deal of publicity, the free service in case of peak pollution, it is surprising that thousands of users are forced to give up public transport to use their personal vehicle when they go to work in the Lille metropolis; It's an ecological nonsense. Xavier Bertrand announces in the media that he wants to convene the SNCF, and tries to defeat the vice-president of the region in charge of transport and infrastructure, of which he desolidates. No one is fooled by this circumstanceal posture. There has been no consultation with local elected officials, while users suffer the consequences of the strategic mistakes of the regional executive. Madam Secretary of State, the agreement voted must be put to a standstill; A clear and transparent multi-annual investment plan must be set up in order to improve the service due to users in Hauts-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u22	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u23	Mr President, you have drawn the attention of Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport, to the transport plan of the TERs in Hauts-de-France for the annual service 2020, as well as to the investments aimed at improving the quality of rail services. I will start by reminding you that these trains are operated by SNCF voyageurs, in the framework of an agreement with the Hauts-de-France region. As the transport organising authority, the region is the only competent authority to define the supply of connections to be provided, the frequency of trains and the stations served, on the basis of its own needs analysis. The State must respect the free administration of local and regional authorities, which, as you know, is a constitutional principle. With regard to rolling stock renovation programmes, investment decisions also belong to the regional community. It should be recalled, however, that while the Hauts-de-France region took over the management of the two lines Paris-Amiens-Boulogne and Paris-Saint-Quentin-Maubuge-Cambrai at the beginning of 2019, the State contributed approximately 400 million euros to the renewal of rolling stock. In addition, the Government is committed to the quality of the dialogue between transport organizing authorities, communities and operators. Under the law for a new railway pact, railway monitoring committees have been set up with regional authorities. These bodies, involving representatives of the users as well as the local elected representatives concerned, are consulted on the service policy. With regard to the maintenance and renewal of the infrastructure, SNCF network spends more than EUR 200 million a year on investments in favour of the regeneration of the structural lines of the Hauts-de-France. In response to the worrying state of the Territory's fine service lines, the State also contributes to the plan contract between the State and the region, alongside the Regional Council, for almost 80 million euros. In addition to these significant investments, the state will remain alongside the territories to maintain their fine service line. It is in order to meet this challenge that my colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebbari has undertaken a partnership approach involving the regions, the Association des régions de France and SNCF network. This approach is based on the mission of Prefect Philizot to find the most relevant line-by-line solution. It will lead later this year to concerted action plans between the State, SNCF network and the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u24	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to speak on his question, No. 973, concerning the two-way crossing of the RN4 between Saint-Georges and Gogney.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u25	I am very happy to associate my colleague and neighbour Fabien Di Filippo, who, like all the local elected representatives, has been involved in the development that the Lorrains have long been waiting for. We will again alert you to the need to complete the two-way crossing of the RN4 between Nancy and Strasbourg. If the work between Heming and Saint-Georges is to be completed next summer, the last section, between Saint-Georges and Gogney, a few kilometres long, remains to be completed. This work is necessary, for territorial reasons, – the section is borrowed by 10,000 vehicles a day, of which 30% of heavy goods vehicles – economic – we must support this landlocked territory – but also and above all safe, since this sector is the most accident-causing one in Lorraine. Between 2009 and 2016 alone, thirteen deaths occurred. In response to one of my interventions, two years ago, the Government stated that the inclusion of this work in the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – was "an absolute necessity for the coming weeks and months". Two years have passed. Studies undertaken over the past several years have helped to optimize the project, adjusting the route to local constraints and reducing its cost. The road component of the current CPER has been extended for two years: it is an opportunity to carry out this project of "absolute necessity". Madam Secretary of State, the mayors, community presidents and departmental councillors involved in this section now need clear commitments from the State on two issues. On the one hand, when will you finish the studies and consultations with farmers for the renditions in the prairies? On the other hand, the local authorities – the region in the lead, but also the departmental councils of Meurthe-et-Moselle and Moselle – providing the other half of the funding, do you commit to include in the budget for 2021 of the State the appropriations necessary to finance the works?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u26	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u27	Mr President, you have drawn the attention of Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport, to the two-track development of the RN4 between Gogney and Saint-Georges. In 2015, the multiplicity of regional priorities and budgetary constraints made it possible to include only the work of the section between Saint-Georges and Heming in the current CPER, amounting to 34 million euros, half of which is taken over by the State. Thanks to the significant financial mobilization of the state and the communities, work on this section is progressing significantly and will allow it to be put into service at the end of the year. I am aware that there are security problems on the adjacent section between Gogney and Saint-Georges. The State and communities are mobilized to move this project forward. After further studies of opportunity and optimization financed half by the state, a consultation was organised with the elected representatives, and led in 2018 to favour a variant whose path follows as closely as possible the current RN4, reducing the cost and environmental impacts of the project. New expertise is under way, in order to determine the precise characteristics of the chosen variant, and to seek permission for work under the Water Act as well as authorization to derogate from the prohibition of damage to protected species. Since the execution of the operations included in the mobility component of the current CPER is extended until 2022, the development work of the RN4 between Gogney and Sant-Georges will only be started from 2023, if the project is confirmed in the next plan contract. It will be carefully examined in future negotiations. The setting of priorities for multimodal mobility and transport infrastructure will take place this year, along with the development of the SPC 2021-2027 for the other strands. In this context, it is necessary to prepare a sound funding plan for the project now. Given the cost of the operation, mobilizing communities, along with the government, to participate in its financing, will be a key asset in its inclusion in the plan contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u28	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u29	Madam Secretary of State, I hope you will relay my answer to your colleague Secretary of State for Transport: the wait is very long. Imagine that the last time a new section was put into service, between Benaménil and Blâmont, in Meurthe-et-Moselle, was in 2006 – it's 2020! As you said, in terms of security, it's an emergency. Thirty-three accidents have taken place since 2010, covering only a few kilometres. Now you're announcing work in 2023. I cannot be satisfied with this answer, and hope that you will urge the services of the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – to make every effort to ensure that the work is started well before that date. Indeed, it is well known that an authorization file under the Water Act does not take three years. Many here are elected local, and know that, if it takes some time, deadlines can be controlled, with energy and voluntarism. You are announcing a future contract; However, the mobility component will not be included in the CPERs for the years 2021-2027. The road component of the current CPER is extended for two years: let's take advantage of it to make it, excuse the word game, the "vehicle" of this work. The local authorities of Meurthe-et-Moselle, Moselle and the Grand-Est region are all mobilized. The question of whether or not they will contribute to the financing of the work no longer arises, since they have announced that this is their priority. It is now up to you to tell us whether this will be a priority for the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u30	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No. 979, on mobility in the Toulouse agglomeration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u31	The Toulouse agglomeration, France's fourth largest urban area, is regularly suffocated by car traffic, slowdowns and traffic jams. This situation is detrimental to all. It wastes considerable time for citizens, generates additional costs for businesses and communities, and has irremediable consequences for the environment and air quality that the Touloussains breathe. Moreover, the strong population growth of the urban area, which welcomes 19,000 new inhabitants each year, of which 13100 in the metropolis and 5600 in the municipality of Toulouse alone, makes the worst fear for the displacement situation in the years and decades to come. Faced with this critical situation, it is urgent to improve mobility by developing all modes of travel: cycling, train, carpooling and, of course, public transport. To do this, it is imperative that all road operators and public transport networks in the agglomeration interact and advance together. However, there are many: the State, the departmental council, the city of Toulouse, the joint public transport union, the regional council and Toulouse metropolis. The mobility guidance law, LOM, promulgated on 24 December 2019, provides for enhanced coordination among stakeholders to improve service to users. In particular, this coordination should enable multimodal ticketing services to be set up and greater coherence between mobility-organising authorities. While many structuring projects are under discussion in Toulouse, when can we really hope that the operational mobility contract will be implemented and the various partner committees set up? How does the state intend to support stakeholders towards more coordination or even more integration? What will be its position on the main projects under study and implementation, and its place in their funding? I am thinking of the third metro line, of the revitalization of the rail via the development of a metropolitan RER in the framework of the railway star, or of the opportunity study of the project of motorway bypass of Toulouse by the west.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u33	You rightly believe, Mr President, that it is necessary to ensure the proper coordination of all public actors in order to improve the daily mobility of our citizens and to respond with greater ambition and efficiency to the challenges of pollution and congestion. In the LOM, parliamentarians have instituted operational contracts which must lead, on mobility basins like yours, to coordinate the action of the region, which is the lead for this competence, with those of the departments managing a road network and the authorities organising mobility. With regard to widely decentralized policies and under the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, the State is not intended to interfere. In addition, the legislator has not set a time limit for the creation of these operational mobility contracts and partner committees. This is a task for the territories – and I know that many communities are already very invested. On the other hand, it should be remembered that the operational mobility contract may certainly give rise to financial contracts, but that is not its purpose. In order to meet the challenges of financing large projects such as line 3 of the Toulouse metro station, article 4 of the LOM allows, under certain conditions, the creation of local public financing institutions based on the model of the Société du Grand Paris. Discussions on this issue are ongoing with relevant departments and interested communities. Lastly, with regard to Toulouse's motorway bypass, the State had studied its appropriateness in the 2000s and, following the public debate held in 2007, had taken a decision on 16 July 2008 not to retain the project. To date, there is no evidence to suggest that this choice should be reconsidered. In partnership with local actors, however, the State is taking action to limit road congestion, to better inform users, to better regulate traffic on the national road network not granted by the management of access control lights, but also to promote modal reporting. In this context, the Occitanie Regional Council and the Haute-Garonne Departmental Council are involved in the development of reserved lanes and carpooling, the latter constituting a practical, ecological and economic mobility solution for the benefit of as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u34	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u35	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the clarity of your response to the subway and the abandonment of the western bypass. With regard to the mobility organizing authority, you have also made it clear that the subject is a matter of local responsibility. Let us therefore call on local partners to show responsibility, because the Toulousans are waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u36	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 982, concerning the development of the RN12 between Dreux and Alençon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u37	Much of National Highway 12 – the RN12 – between Dreux and Alençon is built on an express track, but many sections still require a two-way crossing. Some development works between the departments of Eure, Eure-et-Loir and Orne have not yet been carried out, notably on part of the section linking Dreux to Alençon. In total, there are about 60 kilometres left to transform. The RN12 is an infrastructure that is essential for mobility, as it connects living pools and frees up an area that is not well served by the train. It is also a central factor in economic attractiveness: thousands of heavy goods vehicles borrow it every day, proof of its economic importance. The mobility guidance law adopted by Parliament on 19 November last states in the annex that "a special effort is being made to develop and secure national roads". The Dreux-Alençon section seems to fall under this Act. The second point: the Government also commits in this report to devote EUR 1 billion over 10 years to operations such as short deviations. The town of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon, crossed by a section of the RN12 which is used daily by more than 10,000 vehicles, including some 3,500 heavy vehicles, has been awaiting a bypass project since 1948. Despite the commitment to start work in 2019, this case has not made much progress since 2016. Whether it is the two-way layout between Dreux and Alençon or the bypass of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon, this work responds to a logic of fairness; In fact, the RN12 is entirely two-lane in Brittany. This work is essential to accompany the territories. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, assure us that the portions of the RN12 between Dreux and Alençon and the bypass of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon will be included in the projects referred to in the mobility guidance law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u39	The Government is fully aware of the essential role played by the RN12 in serving Orne and I confirm that, in the long run, the axis is intended to be built twice two tracks between Dreux and Alençon. The section between Dreux and Nonancourt is planned as part of the work of the RN154 and RN12 between Nonancourt and Trancrainville. This project was the subject of a declaration of public utility in July 2018. Integrated into scenario 2 of the LOM Infrastructure Guidance Board, it must be the subject of a motorway concession. The double-tracking of the Nonancourt-Alençon section will gradually become operational under the State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – and the next mobility contract. Two-way work on the sections between Mortagne-au-Perche and Tourouvre, on the one hand, and Saint-Maurice-lès-Charencey and Sainte-Anne, on the other hand, in the department of Orne, is included in the current CPER for an amount of 36 million euros, of which 27 million are contributed by the State. For these two sections, a consultation with the public, held at the end of 2017, resulted in a preferential variant. Pre-public investigation studies are under way and the survey will be launched in 2021. With regard to the deviation of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon, west of Alençon, the Government intends to move this project forward. Following the consultation with the public, significant additional costs were identified, which could call into question its opportunity. Additional analyses have been undertaken and are now being finalized in order to adapt the cost and facilitate the implementation of the project. The departments of the Ministry responsible for transport have requested a phase of the overall project so that the studies and procedures are carried out as a priority on the deviations of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon and Pacé. Be assured, honourable Member, of the mobilization of the state to conduct the public inquiry before the end of the current SPC in 2022. Finally, at this stage, the Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon diversion project receives only credits for the completion of studies. Taking into account the cost of the operation, the participation of the communities alongside the State to ensure the financing of the project will be an essential asset with a view to a possible inclusion of the deviation of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon in the next mobility contract, which will follow the CPER at the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u40	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u41	You give, Madam Secretary of State, guarantees on several sections between Dreux and Alençon, and I listened to you with great attention. However, the mobilization for a two-way transition does not date back to this year; She's over ten years old. I have the impression that there are barriers within the department – I don't know if they come from the road management, but the fact is that they exist. You are certainly making some clarifications, but I would like to see much more concrete planning. Indeed, you are making comments that I heard several years ago – even if I believe you naturally, since you have accurate information. The same applies to the bypass of Saint-Denis-sur-Sarthon: studies have been financed. In the interests of the users and the territory, the bypass of this municipality, which has been required for more than thirty years, is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u42	Mrs Granjus, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised the question of the design defects of certain Renault-Nissan engines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u43	I have been alerted, Madam Secretary of State, about the potential design defects of certain engine models of the Renault car manufacturer, which is located in my constituency. These are the 1.2 TCe and DIG-T petrol engines manufactured at the Renault plant in Valladolid, Spain, between 2012 and 2016. They could lead to serious incidents and accidents and could affect 400,000 vehicles equipped throughout Europe. The Renault Casse Motor Collective has also denounced the risks of failure of these engines, which also equip Dacia, Nissan and Mercedes vehicles. A petition circulated and my e-mail box was flooded. More than 10,000 signatures were collected to denounce these failed engines. Repair professionals, garage operators and former mechanics confirm the reality of the engine failures and the danger they pose. Following complaints from individuals, the UFC-Que Choisir consumer association also alerted the Renault manufacturer to this potential manufacturing defect. To date, Renault has not provided a satisfactory answer to these questions. Could you, Madam Secretary of State, inform us of the measures envisaged by the Government to respond quickly and to remove the fears of road users?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u45	Attentive to product and consumer safety, the Government asked Renault-Dacia and Nissan manufacturers for technical information on the issue of over-consumption of 1.2 H5Ft petrol engines, which could lead to engine failure. Manufacturers have indicated that over-consumption of oil does not affect the safety of the vehicle and is not likely to seriously compromise road safety within the meaning of existing regulations. However, since the identification of this problem of over-consumption of oil, Renault-Dacia and Nissan have taken steps to diagnose the complaints and, if necessary, restore the proper functioning of the vehicle. Following this, the Renault-Dacia manufacturer has defined a new calibration on the H5Ft 1.2 petrol engines starting in June 2015 in order to limit over-consumption of oil, and the Nissan manufacturer has reprogrammed the engine management module. In addition to these technical corrective measures, manufacturers have applied financial support according to objective criteria – origin of oil overconsumption, compliance with the maintenance programme, age and mileage of the vehicle – which can go beyond the statutory guarantee provided. Within the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the services of the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate will continue to be attentive to the follow-up of this issue, in the event of new developments in the field of safety and the environment. If that were the case, it goes without saying that they will not hesitate to carry out the necessary complementary actions. Furthermore, they asked the manufacturers concerned, in addition to the measures taken, to pay particular attention to the handling of the requests addressed to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u46	Mrs. Florence Granjus has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this clarification. However, the above-mentioned collective drew my attention to the policy adopted by the manufacturer, which it deplores, of ensuring variable take-over of the vehicles concerned instead of making their general reminders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u48	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor to put his question, No 957, on nuclear waste in Moruroa.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u49	"This is a prayer! / Oh, the love of my country, / Of which the unrelenting flow bathed my youth, / At his tenderest age! / May he still anoint my mortal body,/ And live this love! - Long live! Long live! Long live again and again! / Let him live and water my native land,/ To bloom in their swarms/ The children of this soil,/ Children of my country. » These verses are taken from the collection Pehepehe i taù nunaa – A poetic message to my people – whose author, Henri Hiro, is an icon of Polynesian culture, a fierce opponent of nuclear tests and a lover of his land. They are particularly relevant on the eve of the France-Oceania summit, organized jointly with the One Planet Summit in Tahiti from 16 to 18 April. Not far from there are two islands geographically located in Polynesia, but legally owned by the French State: Moruroa and Fangataufa. Moruroa is a low island, an atoll with French nuclear waste waiting patiently to contaminate the South Pacific Ocean, as soon as the island collapses due to cracks caused by underground nuclear tests, or the erosion has caused the same result. Respect for the precautionary principle would like the state not to wait for this collapse to act, even though the President of the Republic will preside over the One Planet Summit, which will soon be organized there, in the presence of our neighbours in the Pacific, all of whom are primarily concerned. Beyond the responsibility of the State, it is also an opportunity for innovation. Indeed, the question of the removal of radioactive waste from testing sites and its treatment arises, and is not going to be reduced. The 193 nuclear tests conducted in French Polynesia under the aegis of the Commissariat à l'énergie atomique – CEA – contributed to the creation of a civil nuclear giant. This body, which the Prime Minister is well aware of, has acquired control of the techniques of cleaning and containment of radioactive waste. Therefore, my question is simple: does the Government intend to wait, with its head in the sand, for this threatened atoll, massacred for the greatness of France, to collapse and spread its irradiated bowels in the Pacific Ocean? Or does he intend to commit himself to rid Moruroa of his radioactive waste once and for all? Maruru ro'ate aroha ia rahi!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u51	Mr Brotherson, you are questioning the Government on an important issue: the remediation and dismantling of the sites in French Polynesia on which France conducted nuclear tests from 1966 to 1996. As soon as the tests were stopped, France took the decision to dismantle the facilities of the Pacific Experimental Centre irreversibly. For the record, I recall that France is the only country with nuclear weapons and a signatory to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to have taken such a decision, and to have made sure that it is implemented. Moreover, France plays a leading role in promoting the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Since the nuclear tests carried out on Moruroa's atoll were able to weaken its coral massif, France has put in place a geological monitoring system to detect any landslide. This scheme was modernised in 2018, thanks to an investment of 135 million euros in total. On the other hand, we continue the ongoing radiological monitoring of atolls, and more generally of the Polynesian environment. Sampling campaigns are carried out regularly, as part of the "Turbo" radiological monitoring missions, and the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety provides regular radiological monitoring. The results of these measures are made available to elected officials and the public through the Internet, as well as through the information commissions at the former nuclear testing sites in the Pacific, thus providing information in a transparent manner. As you can see, Mr.Brotherson, the Government's action allows for ongoing monitoring of the environment at the Moruroa site. It is carried out in full collaboration with local authorities. With regard to the clean-up of the Hao atoll, formerly used as the back base of the Pacific Experimental Centre, some of its plots have been industrially contaminated with hydrocarbons and heavy metals. Since 2009, the State has been implementing a local technical solution to clean up soil. Oil-polluted land is reprocessed by an active biological process, called bioterre, in which bacteria ingest hydrocarbons. On the other hand, there is no solution to the reprocessing of land polluted with heavy metals. As we would have to do elsewhere, we have therefore chosen the solution of local containment. Its implementation is carried out in full collaboration with local actors. She got excellent results on a first plot. With regard to the pollution observed on the island of Eiao, located in the Marquises archipelago, the departments of the Ministry of Armed Forces were recently informed of the environmental consequences of prospecting conducted in 1972, when tests on that island were envisaged. An exploratory land mission will be carried out very soon, in order to prepare the clean-up of the sites and to restore to the island its preserved character. As you can see, Mr.Brotherson, a few weeks before the joint holding of the One Planet Summit and the Oceania Summit, the State is fully committed to preserving the environment of your territory, and will be at your side to face the consequences of past acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u52	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u53	Unfortunately, I fear that the Government will confuse the dismantling of a few hangars and the disposal of polluted jeeps with the removal of waste lying at the bottom of the Moruroa lagoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u54	Mr Didier Le Gac, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 961 on the early retirement scheme for asbestos.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u55	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour, and more generally the Government, about the regulations in force for the search for asbestos on board foreign-flagged vessels. Firstly, remember that since the ban on the use of asbestos in France, adopted in 1997, the risk of accidental exposure of professionals has decreased considerably. Similarly, the publication on 18 July of the Ordinance on the tracking of asbestos prior to certain operations carried out in built buildings – commonly referred to as "asbestos prior to construction" or RAT – effectively contributes to the policy of prevention of asbestos-related diseases carried out by the Government. That is to be welcomed. Since the ban on the use of asbestos in 1997, almost 25 years have passed. It is therefore understandable that pre-retirement schemes justified by exposure to pre-retirement will eventually evolve. The same applies to the list of companies eligible for the early cessation allowance for asbestos workers – ACAATA – as the duration of exposure to asbestos is normally expected to be phased out. However, in certain sectors of activity, notably that of naval repair, which is essential to the economic development of the ports in France – including the port of Brest, located in my constituency – the risk of accidental exposure is still very real, and will remain so for a long time. Indeed, the ship repair sector has specific features arising from operations carried out on foreign ships – European or non-European – which are not subject to the French asbestos regulations. I would therefore like to know what guarantees the Government can provide to naval repair workers, who fear the disappearance of the ACAATA system. The concerns are strong, in the workshops as well as on the Brest wharfs and elsewhere. More generally, I would like to know whether the Government intends to take action to strengthen the harmonization of European and international provisions on the use of asbestos on board ships. This is due to the competitiveness of companies in the sector, which are currently facing unfair competition, and above all to the health of its workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u57	Mr Le Gac, you are asking the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, about the future of the early cessation of activity benefit for asbestos workers. As she could not be present in the Chamber this morning, she asked me to answer you. You underline the comprehensive policy aimed at preventing exposure to asbestos implemented by the Government, and recall the relevance of the identification of asbestos prior to work in this framework, which I thank you for. The Government has defined very precisely its modalities, in order to ensure a complete detection of any asbestos presence, thereby ensuring optimum protection for the workers concerned, as well as for the population and the environment. As regards the maritime domain, the decree of 19 June 2019 on the identification of asbestos before certain operations carried out in ships, boats, floating gear and other floating structures was published in the Official Journal of 27 June 2019. The rules governing this tracking protect employees working in ship repair establishments. If they operate on a ship flying the French flag, the tracing must be carried out. If they operate on a ship flying a foreign flag, it is the responsibility of the employer to assess the risks incurred by its employees and to provide the necessary protections. However, the employers of shipyards, while wishing to be protected, fear the constraints that this will place on the contractor – if it is a French-flagged vessel – or on their companies – if it is a foreign-flagged vessel. They denounce the risks of infringement of free and undistorted competition, even fearing the closure of certain yards. For this reason, the Government has adopted a closing date for the periods of inclusion in the ACAATA list of beneficiaries, which is 30 June 2021, taking into account the entry into force of the obligation to identify asbestos, as well as its effective implementation in the shipyards. However, the particular situation of each of them will be carefully studied before the application of this principle. I would like to point out that the introduction of such a date does not in any way call into question the early cessation scheme for asbestos workers, which, since its creation by the Act of 23 December 1998 on the financing of social security for 1999, has enabled the early retirement of more than 100,000 people, working in 1700 establishments where exposure to asbestos was significant. Of course, people already benefiting from ACAATA will continue to receive it, as long as they meet the conditions for its payment. Those who would claim the benefit after 30 June 2021, and who would justify having worked under the conditions required in an establishment on the list of undertakings concerned until that date, would be entitled to collect it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u58	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u59	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this clear and precise answer. I take note that ACAATA is far from being suspended, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u60	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to put his question, No. 983, on areas of rural revitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u61	My question is about the future of rural revitalization zones – ZRR. The scheme is useful in supporting the most fragile rural areas, in particular through tax and social exemption measures ensuring the maintenance of local businesses as well as support for businesses, and facilitating the establishment of doctors and health professionals. The ZRR reform, which entered into force on 1 July 2017, provides for the release of more than 4000 municipalities from the zoning of the scheme, as well as the provisional extension of its benefit until 30 June 2020. In my constituency, the communes of the community of communes of Perche and Haut Vendômois are concerned. Within the community of agglomeration Territories Vendômois, almost thirty communes will leave the scheme, by the only mechanical effect of the mergers of intercommunalities carried out in the framework of the application of the provisions of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE. In addition, the law provides that the tax exemption arrangements in force expire on 31 December 2020. In response to the many concerns expressed by the parliamentarians and local elected representatives concerned, and taking into account the information report of 9 October 2019 drawn up jointly by the Finance Committee and the Committee on Regional Planning and Sustainable Development of the Senate, the Government has included in the draft finance law for 2020 a provision providing for the retention in the field of the ZRRs of the communes supposed to emerge from it on 1 July 2020 for a transitional period up to 31 December 2020. This extension is a necessary but not sufficient gesture, since it does not allow time to carry out a real re-evaluation, on a case-by-case basis, of the situation of the 4000 communes concerned, in particular in the light of developments in the intercommunal perimeters following the application of the NOTRe law. Indeed, some municipalities lose the benefit of the ZRR scheme due to an increase of a few euros in their fiscal potential or the median income of their inhabitants. In addition, it seems necessary to revise the criteria for classification in ZRR, in order to adapt the measures taken to the territorial realities, which differ from one region to another, in as fine a way as possible. The draft finance law for 2018 provided that the Government would submit to Parliament, before 1 June 2018, a report on the implementation of the phasing out of the effects of the ZRR arrangements for the municipalities concerned. This report must be supplemented by the Rural Agenda mission and a report to Parliament, which is due in 2020. Therefore, beyond a mere extension, it is a real and in-depth reform of the ZRRs that must be carried out, a reform that requires time, ambition and precise guidelines. To date, however, the Government's intentions on the future of the ZRRs still seem unclear. Can you tell us more about your intentions with regard to this tool, which has become a crucial factor in the attractiveness and territorial dynamism of the communes and the living areas of our rural territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u62	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u63	Mr. Brindeau, Jacqueline Gourault, who follows this issue within the Government, cannot be present this morning since she is at the National Conference on Disability, which is currently held at the Élysée. The ZRR system, which I know well in my department, has been very useful; But, as you have pointed out, its usefulness has been questioned in recent years, for two reasons: the catch-ups linked to the fall in taxation under common law have gradually made this tool a little less competitive; Most importantly, there was a need to review the targeting of geographic areas where it was relevant to apply it. Added to this was the question of the effects of the Act on the new territorial organization of the Republic, NOTRe, to which we are in the process of finding solutions. On the other hand, it was necessary to allow time to reflect correctly on the evolution of the system; This is why it was extended until the end of 2020 for 4000 municipalities. This allows us to have a whole year for reflection and – let's be honest! – to overtake the municipal elections, but also the senatorial elections to be held in some departments in September. A methodology must be built and the question of optimal zoning must be raised without disrupting the electoral cycle. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has launched an interdepartmental inspection mission – led inter alia by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, IGAS, and the General Inspectorate of Administration, IGA – to formulate concrete operational proposals, in conjunction with Bercy; It is important in this area to take account of the economic world. Thanks to this mission, Jacqueline Gourault should be able, around May or June of this year, to define a methodology in interaction with Parliament and elected associations. We are committed to the ZRR system, but these areas need to evolve: everyone agrees on this, including the Senate. We need to keep intervention tools for the most fragile rural areas, but they will have to be diversified – this is what your colleague Daniel Labaronne wrote in the report of the Rural Agenda mission. There is also a need to find a different level of pilotage. Finally, rural areas are not limited to peri-urban areas. New zonings will have to provide more relevant differentiation tools. In short, the scheme must continue, but it must be made efficient for the future – as it was when conceived by previous governments and parliaments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u64	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u65	Minister, thank you for this helpful clarification. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that zoning must not cause any mismatch with the boundaries of the intercommunalities. Today, this is the case: some municipalities remain in ZRR, others leave, while intercommunalities represent an interesting territorial network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u66	The floor was open to Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart, who raised his question, No. 968, concerning mobile coverage in the Somme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u67	Minister, in January 2018, as part of the signing of the New Deal mobile, 2063 French sites were classified in a white zone, of which twenty-three in the Somme – department that I represent. As stated in a ministerial note of 28 January, the New Deal mobile marks an unprecedented change of ambition in mobile coverage. To cover the white areas, our department received seven allocations, for three sites in 2018 and four in 2019. We will be able to equip six sites in 2020, or even seven, using one of the four regional bonuses under discussion this month. Under these conditions, there will remain between nine and ten sites to be developed, which, in view of the allocations of recent years, would lead us to 2022. Knowing that it takes 18 to 24 months for the operator to implement a tower from the publication of the ministerial decree, the last of the thirty-four communes concerned by the twenty-three identified sites will have to wait until 2024 for its white zone to be cleared. However, these white areas should be added to all grey areas which the planned allocation will cover only very partially. In addition, the actual analysis of the network carried out by the department's services between March and August 2019 enabled the detection of thirty-nine other areas to be treated, six of which were totally impoverished by telephone coverage. Taking an average of two sites per white zone to be treated, like the twelve zones requiring the implantation of twenty-three antennas studied so far, would mean that seventy-eight new antennas would have to be implanted in the Somme to cover the white zones. With a quota of six to seven antennas a year, it would take between eleven and twelve years to actually eliminate the white areas. This means that the last municipality will be fully covered by mobile telephony between 2035 and 2036. The Femtocell housing is only a limited solution to improve the coverage for the user in his home, only for his operator's network. For our rural areas, external coverage is just as important. It mainly concerns health professionals, artisans and farmers, who cannot access the resources they need. Wi-Fi telephony requires a recent telephone and an accessible wifi network – a rare thing outside our villages. Mini transmitter solutions have been tested on Orange urban furniture in Annecy. The improvement of the coverage of rural areas should involve the installation of similar equipment which would allow, from a mini-station, to cover an area of about 500 metres radius. Minister, what alternative technologies can be used to ensure quality mobile coverage for all French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u68	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u69	Mr Leclabart, Julien Denormandie being also at the National Conference on Disability, he asked me to give you the answer he prepared. The strengthening of territorial cohesion and the fight against the digital divide require access to high-quality mobile coverage for all, as you pointed out. The Government has made this a priority, including the conclusion of a new mobile deal with operators in January 2018. This historic agreement is characterised by a series of commitments which oblige operators to cover the neglected areas. As far as your department is concerned, our first objective is the extinction of white areas; In this case, there are six of them, and the allocation to the Somme under the targeted coverage scheme is sufficient. With regard to the remaining thirty-three areas mentioned, part of the problem lies in the poor quality of the 4G network or its absence. The New Deal foresees a generalisation of 4G on all existing sites by the end of 2020, which will lead to a marked improvement in mobile coverage. The allocations under the targeted coverage scheme will also be able to provide a response. Finally, beyond the New Deal, operators are continuing their own deployment. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that there may still be a few situations where the implantation of a tower does not appear to be relevant. Also, all initiatives that allow the acceleration of mobile coverage are welcome, especially those that will allow people who do not have a Wi-Fi compatible phone to get out of isolation – you mentioned it. For example, an experiment is currently being conducted by the departmental council of the Hautes-Pyrénées and the prefecture to find a solution. The National Cohesion Agency of the Territories, ANCT, is following this initiative carefully to verify technical feasibility, legal robustness, cost sizing and the possibility of replicating the scheme in comparable territories. You, who were particularly involved in the consideration by the National Assembly of the bill establishing the ANCT, know that it now incorporates the French mobile mission – proof that the Government wishes to pursue a proactive policy in the area of digital spatial planning. Finally, I would like to point out that my colleague Julien Denormandie proposes to put you in direct contact with the France mobile mission so that you can exchange information on the needs of your territory for mobile coverage and study all the solutions that can meet its needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u70	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u71	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I will not fail to draw closer to Julien Denormandie so that my question can be answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u72	The next speaker is Mr Sébastien Chenu, to put his question, No. 985, on the Denain police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u73	Minister, Denain, a city of which I am a Member of Parliament, is particularly affected by delinquency and incivility – to remain modest. The burglaries, assaults, broken windows of cars are multiplying; The numbers are bad. As a result, the exasperation of the inhabitants naturally rises, and it is all the more legitimate since, in the context of the creation of the borough police under the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy, the staff of the police station in Denain melted like snow in the sun. The courageous national police officers who operate there are out of date and cannot respond to all the situations they face. The municipal police force is also largely understaffed and the officers are ill-equipped. With regard to the national police, whether it is the command of the troops, the agents of the narcotics brigades or the anti-criminality brigade, very many resources have been concentrated in Valenciennes, thus depriving the city of Denain – 20,000 inhabitants, second in our district – in terms of security and the maintenance of law and order. Many complaints cannot be registered and the police's travel to the field on appeal by citizens is not enforced, as fewer staff make the work of the officers impossible. For my part, I consider that a call must always be followed by action; We're far from it! The consequences of the creation of a district police force in Valenciennois are catastrophic for Denain and Denaisis. I ask you to return to the Denain police station the fullness of its means of work and to make the restoration of security in our city a priority, as I do myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u74	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u75	Mr Chenu, I apologize to the Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner, and Secretary of State Laurent Nunez, who entrusted me with the task of reading their answer to your question. In terms of security, the expectations of the French are strong. For this reason, the Government has strengthened the capacity of the police forces: more than 10,000 additional police officers and gendarmes will be recruited by the end of the quinquennium. While the fight against insecurity requires resources, it also requires a greater presence of law enforcement agencies on the ground to provide tailor-made responses to problems, in conjunction with local actors. That's the meaning of the daily security police, PSQ. It also requires effective organizations. This is the meaning of the creation, in 2017, of an agglomeration district in Valencienois, which comprises four public security districts. Far from reducing the capacity for action, it has, on the contrary, enabled, through mutualisation and centralization of support functions, the optimization of operational potential, an increased judicial strike force and a greater presence of police officers on the public highway. On the other hand, the police's real estate structures were not called into question. Denain still has a 24-hour precinct and three sector precincts for the communes of the agglomeration. Then, contrary to your assertions, the means were by no means diverted to Valenciennes. On the contrary, the reform has led to an increase in the number of people on public roads. This mobilisation has intensified further with the PSQ, which in Denain has resulted in the creation of three operational partnership groups dedicated to the city centre and actions in partnership with, for example, the municipal police and the local urban transport network, Transvilles. Finally, the reform has also strengthened the resources devoted to the reception of the public at the police station. In Denain and elsewhere, the police are acting tirelessly to fight crime – I thank you for pointing it out – and you can rest assured that this mobilization will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u76	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u77	Denain is an unemployment rate of 38 per cent, a poverty rate of 48 per cent and a failing municipal security policy. Yet our city has advantages: its geographical positioning should allow it to look at the future differently – on condition, to become attractive again, that insecurity recedes. Your answer is completely out of step with what we are living on the ground. One of the problems – even if not the only one – is that there are not enough national police. But, to begin with, the figures of insecurity must be made public: we are waiting for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u78	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to put her question, No. 974, on the municipal police in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u79	I wanted to ask my question to the Minister of the Interior, but you are telling us, Mr Lecornu, that he will not be able to answer it personally; You will understand that I regret it, but I hope that you will be able to provide us with the details we are waiting for. For the Member of Parliament for Paris that I am, my question is of importance: it is about the creation of a municipal police force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u80	What's up?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u81	A hot issue, especially given the figures for 2019, the capital was unfortunately marked by sharp increases: the number of thefts increased by 12%; destruction and degradation by 15%; violence by 7%; outrages and violence against public order holders of 20%; crimes and offences against minors of 7%; ports of prohibited weapons of 15%. Minister, all the indicators are red! Let's recognize it, 2019 has been a very bad year for your action against delinquency. And, unfortunately, 2020 is not expected to be much better, as in January, criminal assaults rose by 7%, when burglaries increased by 9% and shootings by 28%. In the face of rising crime, the presence of the police on our streets is more necessary than ever. Unfortunately, because of the numerous social movements that mobilise the workforce, the police presence can no longer be fully guaranteed in Paris. This is an unfortunate situation and it is the Parisians who pay for it. In view of the magnitude of the task, the forces of law and order are overwhelmed. This pressure is also reflected in the explosion in the number of suicides among police officers: they increased by 70% in 2019! Our police officers are doing a remarkable job, but they're done. In the face of this alarming situation, however, the Government and the majority have still recently refused the creation of a municipal police force in Paris, clearly calling for a vote against it. It would, however, relieve the national police. Dogmatism and electoral interest have unfortunately prevailed over the general interest. This municipal police would finally give the mayor of Paris the means to build a safer city and to guarantee the tranquillity of the Parisians, allowing the national police to concentrate on the resolution of investigations and crime, that is to say on its sovereign missions. Minister, in view of this review of the year 2019, can you tell me very concretely how the Government plans to place itself alongside the Parisians in 2020 while depriving them of municipal police? When do you finally count, as the Republicans have been asking you for a long time, to allow the creation of an armed municipal police in Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u83	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u84	Mrs Brigitte Kuster, I apologize for the absence of the Minister of the Interior, but the Government is indeed represented and I will read out the answer that the Minister has planned to give to your question. It is well known and I note that it is an important issue in the electoral calendar. It is widely debated in front of Parisiennes and Parisians, thus also contributing to the expression of democratic life, which, this morning, continues through oral questions without debate. You are referring, Madam Member, to an amendment discussed during the examination of the draft law on the involvement in local life and the proximity of public action – for which I was the politically responsible minister – aimed at aligning the police powers of Paris City agents in charge of a police service with the common law of municipal police officers. Thus, to be precise and rigorous, this amendment, which was essentially defended by the Socialist and related groups, was not intended to create or establish a municipal police force in Paris, but to carry out a statutory alignment. At the time, however, it seemed to me to be risky, and the Minister of the Interior had subsequently confirmed it, to proceed with such an alignment by means of a simple amendment, which seemed simplistic in many respects to us. This alignment raised many questions in terms of training, armaments, professional cards, relations with the prosecutor's office, or in connection with the work of the national police. I had also told you, on behalf of the Government, that work would be undertaken around the ministers Christophe Castaner and Laurent Nunez during the drafting of the White Paper on Internal Security, which should allow us to address these issues with regard to the city of Paris and beyond, since the issue of the security continuum with the municipal police also arises in other places in our country. As far as this amendment is concerned, I will add two more elements, because your question is specific. In the first place, it was intended to confer the status of municipal police officer on all surveillance officers in the city of Paris or those in charge of a police service, including the officers furthest removed from the functions of municipal police officer. For example, it would have been responsible for policing the reception and surveillance officers of the city of Paris, which the state has never allowed in other communities in our country. Secondly, defining the status of officers acting as municipal police officers is a prerogative of the State. In the present case, however, the amendment intended to proceed by simple deliberation of the Paris Council, which would have added complexity to the statutes of the agents of the city of Paris, which, as you know, was recently criticized by the Court of Auditors. It therefore seems preferable for us to devise for Paris, as for all French territorial authorities, provisions which enable the State to define and control the prerogatives of civil servants in sensitive missions, as is the case for municipal police officers in the territorial civil service, whose statutes are laid down by decree in the Conseil d'État. With regard to security in Paris, I recall that a republican reconquest district covering part of the 10th and 18th arrondissements was launched in September 2018, and that national plans are deployed with a particular vigilance with regard to the capital; The Ministry of the Interior is at your disposal to provide you with the various figures relating to our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u85	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u86	You focused most of your response on an amendment which had indeed been tabled by the Socialist and related groups and which was a problem. There is never perfection in the texts and amendments discussed in this House, but they provide opportunities to put a debate on the table. The response given to us at that time by the Minister of the Interior was not encouraging. I hope that the municipal campaign in Paris will finally achieve what we expect and what we are asking for, that is, the creation of a real armed municipal police force. I understand that you will go in that direction; Now let's go to action!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u87	The next speaker is Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir, to put her question, No 958, on the reform of the overseas pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u88	I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, about the consequences of the reform of the overseas pension system. This reform is worrying all trades, families, and communities, and the concern is all the greater because the situations are very variable and diverse. The impact of this reform on household incomes is a matter of concern. Your reform provides for the payment of contributions on overpayments, which will reduce the immediate resources of households, will have a negative impact on local authorities, and will lead to the reduction of pensions overseas. However, if overpayment exists, it is to compensate for a justified reality of expensive living and remoteness. Therefore, the wage share of contributions cannot be increased further unless it is necessary to impose a double penalty on the ultramarines. On the other hand, workers in certain sectors of activity, such as construction, transport and fisheries, will not be able to benefit from a full pension, because their activity is often minced, incomplete or informal. How will you take into account this informal time which, overseas, represents a major part of our economies? How will you take into account the hardness of the work? Are you going to allow rights buybacks? All these uncertainties fuel anxieties. In view of the importance of these issues, do you not think that the recourse, when it comes to the overseas countries, to orders, excluding genuine consultation with parliamentarians and representatives of local actors, is no longer tolerable? Would you agree that a bill on the universal, just and republican application of overseas pensions should be discussed by Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u89	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u90	Your question, MP Kéclard-Mondésir, is quite broad and deals with several pension issues. You refer to the pensions of farmers overseas, whose careers are generally shorter than in Hexagon and whose contributions are also lower. We know the difficulties of our agricultural pensioners; It's a legacy. It is for this reason that the bill to introduce a universal pension system aims to correct these inequalities and represents a major step forward for farmers, including the introduction of safety nets – fully applicable overseas – i.e. minimum pensions equal to 1000 euros from 2022 and 85 % of the net SMIC in 2025. This new system will better protect the French, and among them farmers, who leave – you are right to report it – with very low pensions despite a lifetime of work. With regard to the pension bill, you are also referring to the issue of ordinances. I would like to recall the proposal I made that 1 euro contributed will provide the same rights overseas as in metropolitan France. Contributions will cover everything we receive, including overpayment, to obtain larger pensions. The larger the contributions, the more pensions will also be; This is the proposal I made. On these matters specific to the overseas countries and territories, such as subsidies or contributions on overpayments, you are talking about a lack of consultation, but I have been talking about them for months with Members of Parliament. So I'm glad that you asked this type of question – you also did it last week – and that you asked for meetings. However, decisions have been taken, this subject will be dealt with in parallel with our joint work and I do not think I have ever failed to comply with my commitments every time I have proposed a concertation. The pension bill, which ends in committee, will therefore be discussed in this House, while we will do specific work on drafting the order to be applied to officials working overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u91	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What I want is for the decisions taken to apply systematically and automatically to the overseas countries and territories. I take farmers as an example, because some decisions affecting them have not been implemented, such as those relating to their pensions. The application of decisions to overseas countries and territories should therefore be systematically effective. I also stand ready, like all other parliamentarians, to participate in the dialogue you wish to hold on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u93	I call Mr Cazenove to speak on his question, No. 960, concerning the training of diving instructors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u94	As a preamble to my question, I would like to address a friendly thought to the Thuirinese Gilles Rodas, a victim some time ago of a diving accident. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the training of recreational diving instructors. In France, only state graduates can teach scuba diving for remuneration. However, the costs and pathways of these trainings organised by CREPS – centres of resources, expertise and sports performance –, regional bodies supervised by the Ministry of Sport, appear to be burdensome, relative to other certifications such as PADI trainings – Professional Association of Diving Instructors; The main organisation of divers in the world – licensed in France, recognised by European standards and allowing certified divers to work anywhere in the world, except in France. There is also a training course for federal instructors, whose technical levels are recognized by the sport code with the same managerial and safety prerogatives as state diplomas. However, if the holders of these federal degrees can teach for remuneration in other European Union countries, they cannot do so in France. A study by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Pyrénées-Orientales, with 17 professional diving structures, points to the real difficulty of recruiting and training staff. While the circular of 12 June 2019 on the implementation of the reform of the territorial organisation of the State mentions, for the field of sport, a transfer from the mission "certification training" to national education, I would like to know, Madam Minister, what the Government is considering in order to facilitate the training of diving instructors and to respond to the difficulties of recruiting staff in professional structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u95	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u96	I apologize, Mr. Member, for the absence of my colleague, the Minister of Sport, who was unable to make himself available this morning; I will read the answer to your question. In France, the profession of sports educator is regulated, in accordance with Article L. 212-1 of the Sports Code. In the field of underwater diving, located in a specific environment, you said, the professional must have a state diploma. There are currently 788 professionals with a professional card, trained over the last five years, and 3,000 professional sports educators have a diploma to teach diving. The regulations on vocational training in youth, people's education and sport – BPJEPS – mention "Subaquatic diving", provide for numerous exemptions and equivalences with the federal monitor industry, which you mentioned. However, holders of the BPJEPS did not acquire the status of dive director. This function, which is mandatory in the natural environment, could be obtained through a certificate of specialization or a complementary certificate backed by the BPJEPS. Work will be undertaken in this direction, which will benefit nearly 300 professionals. Pursuant to EU Directive 2005/ 36/EC, which has been transposed into the Sport Code, a European professional who holds a PADI certification – Professional Association of Diving Instructors – may also benefit from the recognition of his qualifications under the freedom of establishment or the freedom to provide services. In addition, the Ministry of Sports applies measures adapted to each candidate to facilitate the acquisition of State diplomas. Finally, you are concerned about the transfer of training and certification missions to national education. As part of the reform of the territorial organisation of the State – OTE – these missions will be entrusted to the rectors of academic regions, who will rely on regional academic delegations to youth, engagement and sport, in which the professional skills will be preserved. The regulations governing professional certifications will therefore not be amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u97	Mr Sebastien Cazenove has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u98	Thank you for your answer, Minister. With security as the only compass, we must have the ambition of developing the activity, a formidable asset for tourism in the Pyrénées-Orientales, but also probably overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u99	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to put his question, No 976, on fishing in the Celtic Sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u100	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, France remains the world's second largest maritime power after the United States and the fishing lines of our French ports are an economic asset that we must preserve. However, fishermen are concerned about the French Government's ability to defend their interests. Recently, on a proposal from Ireland, the Council of European Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries introduced new technical measures at the Celtic Sea to protect cod and whiting. These measures have a very serious impact on the economic activity of French fishermen, and mainly Breton fishermen. While the objective is for cod and merlan, I wonder whether the Council of Ministers should introduce a series of technical measures which will, in fact, make fishing by Breton trawlers in the highly strategic area of the Celtic Sea impossible. The entry into force of this European decision results in a 44 % loss of turnover for the vessels concerned, as several species such as baldfish, cardine or haddock could no longer be caught. The decision of the Council of Ministers humiliates France. Of course, the French delegation that you led, Minister, has obtained a five-month postponement of the entry into force of the new measures. That was the least you could do, even though the arguments put forward by the fishermen's organisations should have led to demand that such a decision be annulled outright! I believe that today our country is no longer armed to defend the interests of French fishing, which is being sacrificed on the European scene. From my point of view – and it is also the one that prevails in the Breton ports – the French Government lacks a real interlocutor, capable of following up on the fisheries dossiers and defending our fishermen. Mr Minister, it is time for France to take up the challenge of fishing and be able to maintain its position as the world's second largest maritime power, failing which we will now be able to consider, in our country, that a good fisherman is a fisherman who does not fish anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u101	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u102	Mr. Member, I've known you more nuanced in your analyses. The perceptible annoyance among each other is no doubt an effect of the storm that fell on France... I don't think France was humiliated, because it held on. Humilie, it would have been if we had accepted the compromise at 16:30, when the Council ended at 06:00 in the morning. I didn't want to let go. You know very well that it is not possible to cancel the measure. You know how European councils work: France was isolated; I was the only one who opposed the Commission's position. When we arrived, there were two solutions: either we voted for the compromise, or we didn't vote for it, which meant losing all the positive progress we had made. On the subject of fishing in the Celtic Sea, I have been in constant contact with fishermen and the chairman of the Regional Committee on Maritime Fisheries and Marine Farming, a person who is very much listened to but who sometimes has very different positions depending on whether he speaks with me or with Breton fishermen – which is quite normal. Stock in the Celtic Sea is a real problem, as we all know. I objected to the position proposed by the European Commissioner, that of "raise line", i.e. the lifting of nets, because this does not solve the problem. Only Ireland has requested this, but this solution has been accepted by all the countries of the European Union, without any exception, except France – I would like to stress this. It cannot be said that France is not being listened to, only in the European Union, it is the majority that prevails. The Council's challenge, shared by French fishermen and other Member States, was to achieve an increase in the total allowable catch in return for additional management measures: we have obtained it and are fully mobilized on this subject. A trilateral meeting was held with France, the Commission and the Presidency of the Council, held by Finland. This shows that we have raised the pressure to the point of partially unlocking the situation. I have managed to convince the European Commissioner of a compromise that the application of raise line is delayed by five months. Of these five months, there are now four to work. The Commissioner will be in Paris tomorrow and the day after; I will meet with him on Thursday morning to tell him that I totally dispute the method adopted today by the Commission: it is not acceptable because it is based only on a few studies which have not been validated by all the parties. Personally, I rely heavily on the study of the Institut français de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer – IFREMER. Again this morning, I was with the President of the Brittany region, and we discussed this subject. I hope that we will find another solution to the crisis. There is a problem of sustainable management, and all countries must be housed in the same sign: perhaps the fishery will be closed for a few weeks? But, in that case, it will be closed for everyone. There is no question that we accept the current situation, which is not satisfactory. The day after tomorrow, I will make a counter-proposal to the Commissioner so that he can bring it to the European level. I have made it very clear to him that the present position has been proposed by Ireland on the basis of studies that we are contesting. I have therefore asked IFREMER to work with the National Committee and the Regional Committee on Maritime Fisheries and Marine Farming and the Marine Fisheries and Aquaculture Directorate – DPMA – to achieve a result that I hope will be positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u103	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor very briefly, because the time has already expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u104	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I understand that things should evolve tomorrow or the day after: so much the better! What worries me is that these measures fall brutally on fishermen: last week it was Brexit and Guernsey, this week it is Ireland's business. All this really worries the world of fishing, and I think we should work on these measures long before they fall on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u105	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u106	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to raise her question, No 962, on veterinary desertification in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u107	Last summer, in the department of Aude, a young veterinarian, yet passionate about her profession, had to close her practice, to her great despair and for the greatest concern of herders in the territory. Veterinarian scarcity is becoming a crucial problem for rural areas, already affected by the remoteness of decision-making centres and the impoverishment of farmers. Veterinary practice covers two very different realities: a first activity, known as canine, concerns domestic animals. It is profitable and less difficult than the second, called "rural", which, on the other hand, covers a demanding and much less profitable exercise, involving long journeys and increased availability for livestock – cattle, sheep, goats or equines. Of the 12000 veterinarians registered with the Order, 3600 work in rural areas, and only 15% of new graduates choose it each year. The reasons? A tough job, demanding great physical resistance and availability, not to mention the poor remuneration of periodic penalty payments, the obligation to travel sometimes large distances in rough territory and a disparity in the cost of travel. Recently, the shift to two annual prophylaxis checks for herds of cattle leaving summer has further increased the workload of rural veterinarians. More and more firms are unable to balance their accounts, accumulating deficits. The sustainability of livestock farming is, of course, called into question: breeders cannot continue without veterinarians, and we know that veterinary control and prophylaxis are vital for food safety and public health. Mr Minister, what measures are you proposing in terms of pricing frameworks, real account being taken of travel and periodic payments, or contracting?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u108	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u109	Madam Member, you are well aware of these subjects, you who are elected from a very rural department where you see, year after year, the scarcity of veterinarians, especially rural veterinarians. First of all, it must be remembered that local veterinarians should not be opposed to rural veterinarians, which you have not done. We do need each other and, in the future, we will have to move towards more joint work. Veterinary meshing in rural areas is a very important subject, which I am with particular vigilance, as the ministry has been doing for years. This presence is decisive in the health safety, animal safety and public health system. It is also one of the 200 actions on the rural agenda defined by the Minister for Cohesion of the Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, and which you support, Madam Member. The situation has already been taken into account, and the Ministry has set up 18-week tutored internships in the fifth year of veterinary school. As a result of a partnership between schools and veterinary offices, these courses are intended to direct veterinary students towards animal production. Indeed, we need to encourage them to move towards what is not the ease, but the interest of the profession and the breeders. To date, approximately eighty students have benefited from these internships and funding from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. At the end of their studies, 95% of them chose to practise in animal production. The initiative, which I very much care about and which I wish to continue to support, is therefore bearing fruit. The situation in rural areas is the same as for doctors, even if it is here the veterinarians who matter to us. In 2019, I announced with Frédérique Vidal the creation of a new way of access to national veterinary schools for terminal classes. We really want to put the package on this extra method of post-bac recruitment: 160 places will be available, which will diversify the recruitment of large schools by allowing students with good school results to access it without going through a preparatory class. Considerations continue on other levers, including ensuring the sustainability of the relationship between breeders and veterinarians in technical and financial terms. Discussions are under way, and I speak regularly with professional agricultural organisations and veterinarians about the principle of contracting, including the obligation to care, the health monitoring of the herd and the sharing of health data. If it is not the primary work of the breeders, the absence of veterinarians in rural areas must be addressed at the moment. Local initiatives have already emerged and are functioning, such as the development of good practice charters. Local authorities must also be allowed to introduce incentives to encourage and maintain the installation of veterinarians in rural areas: just as there are health homes, there may be aids for setting up veterinary homes. Thanks to the deployment of new communication information technologies, teleconsultation must also be developed, especially in remote areas, because, as you have said very well, there are sometimes many kilometres and hours of travel for the veterinarian. It is on this basis, Madam Member, that the Department is considering the legislative and regulatory measures that should be taken to strengthen the practice of rural veterinarians. I really believe that we need to mobilize all of us in this direction: if we want to maintain livestock farming in this country, there must remain veterinarians. The contract may make it possible to compensate for their absence, as long as we strengthen the workforce.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u110	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva being kept by the weather on his beautiful island of Corsica, the floor is open to Mr Philippe Vigier, who is replacing him, to set out question No 977 on aids for pastoral areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u111	As Mr. President explained, Mr. Jean-Félix Acquaviva is blocked in Bastia and asks you, Minister, to excuse him. You are well aware of the problem of the eligibility of pastoral land for aid under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, the CAP. This is a crucial point for the future of Corsican island agriculture, but also for the Mediterranean regions in general or the Central Massif. These pastoral areas have, of course, less than 50% grass; However, they are agricultural land. They have a very strong agricultural but also social value because they guarantee, in the event of drought, a so-called resilient food resource, the importance of which is particularly evident in the context of climate change that we know. In addition, these areas make it possible to develop in agricultural land difficult territories, on which no other production is possible, often in a local context of agricultural abandonment. The recognition of their specificity is necessary for the maintenance of pastoral activity in mountainous territories, the maintenance and life of the earth, the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against fires, whose scale and recurrence, in all seasons, are worrying – all realities to which Jean-Félix Acquaviva attaches particular attention. However, these ancestral practices and areas, because of their heterogeneity, are not recognized to their fair value by the common agricultural policy. On the basis of the current rules, the assessment of their eligibility for aid and the monitoring procedures are made very subjective. Small farms, in particular, have seen their aid fall, while some, larger, have seen its aid explode. On this point, Minister, you have brought together the Corsican agricultural and political leaders: Jean-Félix Acquaviva thanks you for your concern. Transitional solutions have been found and you have participated in their application. Discussions on the new CAP have begun: there are concerns about the future of the first and second pillars, as well as the question of possible nationalisation that would allow the central State to intervene directly in these regions, which deserve special attention. I believe that contacts have been made with the agricultural professions in order to arrive at solutions. Can you reassure our island colleagues about the post-2020 CAP, and more specifically about the expected decline? Co-financing for the territories concerned deserves special attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u112	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u113	Thank you for asking Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, with whom I work regularly. This subject is important for Corsica, and for Mediterranean agriculture in general: I recently went to the Montpellier region and I was able to observe these pastoral routes. I am committed to maintaining the recognition of unproductive pastoral areas – PPS – in the future CAP. I said it in Corsica during my visit, I told Mr Acquaviva, and you can tell him again. Several arguments justify this retention. This is first of all a specific feature of island Mediterranean agriculture, with extensive livestock farming being a model that cannot be transposed everywhere; On unproductive pastoral surfaces, it contributes powerfully to economic activity, especially in Corsica. Its safeguard is therefore crucial in rural areas where no other model is possible. Some animals feed very little – grass, acorns, roots: above all, they contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and landscapes and contribute to the fight against fires, thanks to the passage of herds. France has fought a great deal to gain recognition of the unproductive pastoral surfaces in the CAP. Mr Acquaviva refers to controls: we have made sure that they take place, which is normal when public aid is paid, both in Corsica and elsewhere, and that it is carried out as humanely as possible. In this case, they went rather well. The importance of these areas has led the Government to devise new regulatory solutions within the framework of the future CAP, in order to extend the recognition of such areas to 38 departments, including all those in the South. I assure you of the will of France, which is also my own, to have the interest of the unproductive pastoral surfaces recognized in the future CAP, and I think we will succeed. This recognition, Mr. Acquaviva, wishes to engrave it in marble. If it is not certain that this is possible in the CAP, since negotiations are taking place at European level, this will be the case in France. There is no question of renationalizing the CAP, but the national strategic plans will enable us to ensure that these areas are recognised. If we work collectively with the elected representatives concerned and with the professional organisations, I am almost certain that the PPS will be recognised in the future CAP. I have made a commitment in Corsica as in other departments, and I will make sure to keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u114	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u115	I have heard your commitment; the message will be heard in Corsica, as in the other regions concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u116	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Furst, to put his question, No. 975, on the governance of the French forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u117	The French forest occupies 17 million hectares, to which must be added the particularly large forest surfaces of the overseas territories; The upstream and downstream wood sector accounts for 440,000 jobs. The forest covers 31 per cent of the national territory and increases by about 0.5 per cent per year, i.e. the area of more than 300 football fields per day, mainly due to agricultural decline, which is very high in average mountains. Our forest is therefore a green lung and a carbon sink for the nation; It is also an opportunity for our economy. In Germany, however, the forest covers 11 million hectares and provides 1.2 million jobs, suggesting the immense potential that we have. With 135 tree species, our forest is rich in biodiversity; However, we feel that France is not up to the current challenges. The scolyte crisis, drought, game pressure, adaptation to climate change, export of oak logs, loss of market share of downstream industries, the situation of the National Forestry Office: all this raises questions. The forest, in the broad sense of the term, currently depends on several ministries: those of ecological and solidarity transition, agriculture and food, economics and finance, national education and youth, and perhaps even cohesion of territories and relations with local and regional authorities. This gives the impression that this vast sector, which still concerns 6000 communes, is the subject of disorderly pilotage. Does the Government intend to remedy this very old situation – indeed there is no political background in my question – which is penalizing our country? Midway through our legislature, could you establish a milestone in government action and clarify your ambition for the French forest?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u119	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u120	Members are always right to ask questions of their choice, but yours is more relevant because it comes at a time when the French forest is at a turning point. We must collectively take care of this situation: the forest communes, the owners, the parliamentarians and the Government, but also all those concerned downstream, since the industrial sector is very important. You evoke the scolytes: their attacks are the first cause of the turning point in the French forest. She's sick, she's scoly: the situation is gravissim. We have adopted an emergency plan with €6 million to remove colyed wood. You know better than anyone else the situation of the forest: the task is made even more difficult by the multiplication of small plots, some of which are owned by people who do not even know how to own them. The removal of barkwood, which is the first part of the plan, must be completed. The second part, with EUR 10 million, aims to create a long-term reflection on the future of the forest. At the last strategic committee on the timber sector, I asked that the whole sector forward its proposals to us. We need to design a more resilient forest to climate change. In particular, some resino-feullous species may need to be changed. The recent reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) indicate that the forest is a bottomless carbon sink with exceptional properties, such as soils when covered. In this respect, the French forest is not exploited to the full extent of its potential. In addition, there are considerable opportunities for development. The Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 offer a fine illustration: the buildings of the Olympic Village, including the high buildings, will be constructed of wood, foreshadowing the constructions of tomorrow. Future environmental regulations on new buildings should help us in this direction. The low-carbon strategy, which is being consulted, will also include solutions to combat global warming. You also asked me about the NFB, which is actually in arrears. A new Director General has been appointed; We are working to fill the huge deficit so that the NFB becomes what it should be, that is, a public office, able to radiate and work with all the actors, particularly, I very much want to see, the National Forest Ownership Centre. Finally, the forest plan must be able to define the future we want in this area as regards the downstream. Logs go abroad and come back in the form of furniture that we buy: this is not admissible. We need to develop a real strategic sawmill and furniture industry: there is no reason why French wood should not be sawn, sliced and processed in France, and in doing so it should be a short circuit, for the benefit of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u121	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u122	Seventy years represent nothing on the scale of the shoot of a tree or a forest. So we do not, as here with you, politicize the subject. The forest represents an extraordinary opportunity, and it must be subject to a determined control in order to develop the wood industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u123	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to raise her question, No. 984, on Porte-Océane du Havre High School.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u124	I have been questioned by some teachers at Porte-Océane du Havre High School, concerned about the future of their school, which is experiencing a steady decline in the number of classes and teachers. More generally, these teachers, supported by many parents of students, have a sense of abandonment that I take care of. In their view, this steady and continuous decline has an impact on the quality of education. The demography partly explains this, but it is also the result of the school map. In particular, students come from priority education colleges, which send relatively few pupils in general second. On the other hand, the public received often experience difficulties and do not always have the required codes, which sometimes requires teachers to invest heavily in teaching and raises questions in downtown families. In fact, the number of students enrolled has been lost compared to the number of students in the sector. For example, students from REP and REP+ colleges – almost 80% of students – are overrepresented. Moreover, the share of vocational education, more than 70%, far exceeds the academic average, as does the percentage of pupils who arrive in second place at least one year late. According to them, this composition of the workforce requires better care, thanks to high resources, including small classes that promote appropriate teaching activities. With the continuation of the third first class, the number of pupils would remain at twenty or twenty-two per class, instead of thirty-five with two classes: this would, in turn, recognize the adaptation of the teaching profession to the audiences welcomed. It is therefore becoming necessary and urgent to work towards a better distribution of the workforce in the basin, by carrying out a genuine reflection on the duty stations. More broadly, in the face of the constant and significant decline in the number of students, the questions relate to the eventual closure of this high school. It would therefore be appropriate to reflect on a proactive policy of assigning Havre students, keeping from undue fear of family appeals. An in-depth reflection should also be undertaken on the map of training in Le Havre, with a possible redistribution based on clusters of skills rather than on scattered training. Finally, it will probably be necessary to work on the recognition of the specific needs of the public welcomed in the high school: to assess the means, criteria and objectives to be achieved, e.g. to obtain the baccalaureate in four years. For the second year in a row, a second class closed in July, which caused organizational problems since schedules had to be redone urgently, sometimes in disregard of the pedagogical projects already carried out by teachers. A first class could, as a result of this decision, close next year. In order to anticipate possible organisational difficulties in the summer, the teams should be reassured by receiving them now so as not to put them in front of the fait accompli. This process would generate less anxiety, prepare and work upstream with the teams. Thank you for informing the teams on the spot about the actions that could be taken to address their concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u125	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u126	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who participates in the national conference on disability. He asked me to answer you about Porte-Océane du Havre High School, for which we know your involvement and about which you asked him and his teams several times. I would like to reassure the teachers, the parents of the students and the students who have expressed their concerns to you. The Ministry of National Education and Youth is paying particular attention to this high school for social reasons which make the question of the distribution of pupils particularly important. You call for an in-depth reflection on the training map for the city of Le Havre. We are leading it to improve recruitment flows in each of the high schools and to strengthen the mix within the institutions, as many issues as you mentioned. The work, undertaken with all the principals, should lead to a new, more balanced training offer for the benefit of each of the establishments by the beginning of 2021. Porte-Océane High School receives special treatment. Its margin of autonomy was increased by fifty-three hours, equivalent to three additional jobs for the general and technological high school and eighteen hours, or an additional job, for the vocational high school. This important supplementary allocation has been allocated taking into account the characteristics of the institution, which you recalled, in particular the social indicators of the students received. It should also be remembered that Porte-Océane High School offers nine specialized courses at the first stage, while a classical high school offers only seven. In the new year 2020, this high school will continue to be the best accompanied by the academy. It will once again be the one with the highest degree of autonomy, in view of its specific social situation. This effort will make it possible, in particular, to take care, in the best possible conditions, of pupils from the priority education. To support the guidance of pupils is indeed a priority of the Government: we are mobilized to encourage school ambition and to support students in the construction of a chosen orientation project. This is particularly the case in this institution. It is also important to engage in dialogue with the teams. On 20 December, the Seine-Maritime department received a delegation of teachers to deal with this subject. We asked the Deputy Academic Director of National Education Services to visit the institution on March 5th to discuss the preparation strategy for the re-entry 2021 and the new training offer. Of course, we remain attentive to the situation of Porte-Océane du Havre High School.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u127	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to put his question, No 956, on schools in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u128	It is a cry of alarm that I am addressing you today, Secretary of State. Once again, because calls for help follow one another. Parliamentarians, local elected officials, trade unions, staff, teachers, parents of students are constantly drawing alarms about the situation of schools in Seine-Saint-Denis, and nothing changes. On the contrary: any empire. National education staff, students from our schools today die in Seine-Saint-Denis, in my constituency, in Aubervilliers and in Pantin. I repeat, how frightening, inconceivable and unacceptable this reality is: they die! I am thinking of Christine Renon, director of the Méhul nursery school in Pantin, who killed herself on the premises of her school last September, because she couldn't do it anymore. I am thinking of Kewi Yikilmaz and Djadje Traoré, students at Alembert High School in Aubervilliers, who died as a result of two attacks in October and November. Three dead in three months! Far from being singular, isolated episodes, these unspeakable tragedies are the consequences of an acute, daily emergency situation that affects a large number of institutions in the department. Everything cracks when the buildings are dilapidated or there is a shortage of space to accommodate the students. Thus, Aubervilliers would need a fifth high school. The material means are dramatically insufficient: the least well equipped of the Parisian establishments is better endowed than the one which is most endowed in the Seine-Saint-Denis. There are not enough teachers and administrative staff, principal education counsellors and school doctors: every college student in the department loses three whole weeks of classes per year due to absences of teachers, not replaced due to lack of teachers. Your hasty reforms have disrupted the work of staff and the education of students! You can only impose them by force: last week, five students were detained in Pantin because they protested against the E3C, the joint tests of continuous control! The admirable dedication of teachers, staff, parents of students is no longer enough. There is a lack of resources at all levels, in a department that is neglected and should be given priority. And the officials in the top place are deaf ears. Christine Renon said this in the shocking public letter she left before ending her life: "I don't trust the support and protection that our institution should provide. Créteil's rectorate is to the absent subscribers or seeks to "do not wave" – these are Christine Renon's words, again. When the Prime Minister announces additional means to carry out the essential work of doubling classes, they amount to 20 million euros over ten years, that is, barely the cost of a single college. Who are we laughing at? When will you really act to respond to the calls of the educational communities of the Seine-Saint-Denis? When will you finally unlock the necessary resources to launch a major emergency plan for education in the department?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u129	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u130	Again, I would like to apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who, who was selected at the national conference on disability, asked me to answer you. With regard first of all to Ms. Renon's suicide, this tragic event has upset the entire educational community and, beyond that, the institution of national education as a whole. We have taken urgent measures to alleviate and facilitate the daily lives of school principals, in particular additional days of discharge and a moratorium on the questionnaires and investigations requested of them. We intend to go further following the consultation of all school principals who have been 64% responding to OpinionWay on measures that could facilitate their daily lives and address the issues raised by Ms. Renon. It also seems that your request to the Rectorate to evaluate certain establishments has been unanswered. That's not acceptable. Every elected member of the Republic, every parliamentarian who asks the rectorate for information, must receive them. So I'll relay your message. Our political opinions diverge and we do not always agree, but we agree to deplore the unacceptable delay of the institutions of Seine-Saint-Denis compared to those of other territories. On the other hand, that is the point on which we differ, the Government is doing everything possible to overcome this delay by taking strong and ambitious measures, of which I will mention a few examples. To combat inequalities in the first degree, we have lowered the age of compulsory education to three years. In addition, 300,000 students have integrated double-staffed classes and we have opened 2325 teaching positions, while schools receive 46,500 fewer students. For this year alone, 284 posts were created in Seine-Saint-Denis. No less than 12% of all job creations in France are destined for the Seine-Saint-Denis. Since 2015, accompanying demographics in the department has resulted in the opening of fifty-three new schools and five new colleges. In this school year alone, we have ten new schools and two colleges. This steady pace will continue in the coming years for the benefit of the second degree. The opening of two new colleges is already scheduled in Gagny and Saint-Denis for the beginning of 2020; that of a college at the Courneuve for 400 pupils is planned for the re-entry 2021. Finally, the restructuring and construction of two high schools were decided, which will open in 2022 and 2023 respectively in Neuilly-sur-Marne and in the sector of Pierrefitte-Villetaneuse. With regard to listening to the educational community and taking into account its concerns, the Prime Minister announced that an additional €20 million...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u131	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u132	... would be devoted to the allocation of support for local public investment to the tune of €2 million per year for ten years to finance real estate investment and educational cities. We're taking action to catch up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u133	I remind you that the time limit for each question is six minutes, and thank you for sticking to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u134	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor to put his question, No. 959, concerning the sharing of information on the follow-up of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u135	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The content of television reports dedicated to social assistance for children has deeply moved public opinion. Although they have focused on demonstrating the dysfunctions of a system as a matter of priority, it is undeniable that progress still needs to be made in this sector. As a result of these reports, an information mission was launched by our assembly. The information report presented by Alain Ramadier and Perrine Goulet on social assistance for children makes several recommendations. Among other things, his proposal No. 14, which aims to "allow professionals in national education, justice, the departmental house of disabled persons (MDPH), ESA – social assistance for children – and the personnel surrounding the child day to day to exchange on the important elements of the child's life, by practicing shared secrecy". This proposal therefore highlights the importance of the exchange. Within the framework of child welfare, several dramatic situations have been identified. For example, in Périgueux, one child was defeated by another, who had already committed a similar act of violence several years earlier. The teaching team, completely unaware of the history of the minor protected by ESA, was unable to anticipate and take appropriate security measures. At present, there is no obligation to share professional secrecy. At best, professionals are allowed to share it. A sharing of information might have prevented this tragedy for the victim's relatives, but also for those of the aggressor and the aggressor himself, not to mention the teaching team, placed at the heart of this terrible tragedy. In view of these arguments, what do you think of the obligation to share professional secrecy, in targeted situations, especially in case of a major risk of violence and in the strict interests of the child?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u136	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u137	Mr Taquet, allow me to give you some of the answers that Mr Taquet would have given you. You are right, sharing information between professionals is essential both to identify situations of children at risk and to ensure the quality of their support when they benefit from a protective measure. The legislator has planned and supervised the sharing of information between professionals in order to guarantee its effectiveness through the law of 5 March 2007 reforming the protection of children. Thus, "as an exception to article 226-13 of the Criminal Code, persons subject to professional secrecy who implement the child protection policy set out in article L. 112-3 or who assist them are allowed to share secret information with each other in order to assess an individual situation, determine and implement the protection and assistance measures that minors and their families may benefit from". This sharing of information among professionals also builds on the project for the child, a unique document accompanying the child throughout his/her career in child protection. This document determines the nature and objectives of interventions in favour of the child and his or her family. It is drawn up in a multidisciplinary manner and is linked with the other documents relating to the care of the minor and the contract of reception in recovery. It is also shared with the authorities responsible for implementing the protection measure. Meeting the needs of the child means that professionals can exchange information. With regard to the tragedy you have mentioned, it is necessary to go further and strengthen the link with national education. I will not allow myself to answer questions about the work undertaken by Adrien Taquet, but I should like to know that the Government is paying particular attention to this matter. Mr. Taquet will be at your disposal to discuss the link between child protection services and all the structures that work around the child, since a child in a child protection institution is also a national education, which must have access to information about him in order to avoid drama.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u138	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u139	I thank you for the accuracy of your answer, Madam Secretary of State, and I hope that it will come to fruition. Without questioning the ethical conception of child follow-up, some obstacles seem to me to have to be removed, which is likely to require regulatory progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u140	Mr Fabrice Brun, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 970, concerning the medical and hospital organization in Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u141	When you are a member of parliament, you sometimes have the unpleasant impression of preaching in the desert – a medical desert, in this case. This risk is particularly acute in Ardèche, which, with 330000 inhabitants, is the only department of France of this importance without any hospital support within the framework of a hospital group of territory, a GHT. Will you correct that, Madam Secretary of State, and correct the mistakes of the past? By my voice, the Ardéchois ask you, to strengthen the technical plateau and the attractiveness of the hospital of Aubenas. I would add that we do not expect everything from the state and that we do not remain crossed arms: the total reconstruction of the emergencies, which is under way, and the future house of the interns attached to our hospital centre are there to testify to this, as the numerous initiatives of the collective of doctors of the Southern Ardèche, to which I pay tribute. Another question is on all the lips of the inhabitants of Saint-Cirgues-en-Montagne, Burzet, Valgré, Saint-Étienne-de-Fontbellon and elsewhere: how long can our health system hold without regulating the installation of doctors, generalists as specialists, at least the time to wait for the effect of the suppression of the numerus clausus, that is, ten years – because, like a good wine, that is what it takes to make a doctor? You will tell me that everything is done to facilitate the combined exercise of medicine. In this regard, we must pay tribute to the actions of mayors and local elected officials, but also to firefighters, nurses and hospital workers, who sometimes hold the system at arm's length. Nevertheless, Madam Secretary of State, the incentive logic has its limits and it is coming to an end in our territories. Are you and the Government aware of this? How are you going to help us resolve the issue of medical presence and support the hospitals of Aubenas and Privas, which are the focal points of our health organization?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u142	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u143	Mr President, first of all I would like to assure you that we take into account the specific nature of your territory. As the Minister of Solidarity and Health has already had the opportunity to say, we do not believe in coercion: in general medicine, France as a whole is underfunded and only 5% of young doctors want to settle. With a coercive system, we'd have zero. We therefore advocate incentives. The objective of the "my health 2022" plan and the various measures of the access to care plan is precisely to lead young doctors to settle by knowing the territory and patient. Your question concerns in particular the role of the hospital centre in Aubenas and the contours of the hospital group of territory. Please be aware that work is under way to issue, by the summer, an ordinance and decree on the governance of hospitals and THGs, which will contain in particular elements relating to the conditions for the application of article 37 of the Law on the organization and transformation of the health system establishing medical grouping commissions. The texts shall specify the composition and rules of operation of these new bodies and the matters on which they will be consulted. The establishment of group medical commissions should be effective by 1 January 2021 at the latest. Following the publication of these texts, it will be up to the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes Regional Health Agency to consider what changes they will lead to on the functioning of the GHT and to carry out a possible revision of the contours of these groups, including the GHT Sud-Drôme-Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u144	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u145	I also do not believe in coercive measures, but we have now reached such a level of medical desertification that certain forms of regulation, such as the ban on settling in overdoing areas, deserve reflection. Anyway, I thank you for this answer and invite you, together with the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes SRA, to understand the reality of our health basin. You won't have any trouble doing better than your predecessors. Even if the sector is highly regulated, we do not expect studies on the dossier of the hospital grouping of territories, but acts in favour of the creation of a hospital support ardéchois. This is a matter of fairness and equity in access to care. I take advantage of this privileged exchange to bring a slight flat to the enthusiasm that surrounds telemedicine: it certainly represents an interesting and important complement and brings an appreciable more technological, but it cannot replace the human and social dimension of medicine that you defend, I know, with conviction. Nothing will ever replace doctors in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u146	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, to put his question, No 971, on Schimke's disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u147	I came this morning with Brune's mother, who is watching us from the gallery of the Chamber. Brune is a lovely little girl full of life. Unfortunately, she has a disease called Schimke's immuno-osseous dysplasia. This terrible disease affects about ten children in France; It causes stunting and kidney failure and increases the risk of cardiovascular accidents. The life expectancy of children living with them is limited to early childhood, while adequate care would significantly prolong it. Little Brune is unfortunately not an isolated case: many children in France are suffering from rare diseases, perhaps too rare for the public authorities to take the necessary measures to accompany them and to accompany their parents, who often feel very alone. Yet, with courage that drives admiration, families fight with friends and volunteers to multiply the actions and raise the funds necessary to finance the care of their child abroad when there is no solution in our country. Despite many steps – I have written to the Minister of Solidarity and Health on several occasions on this subject – the Government does not provide any concrete answers to their difficulties. Families now feel abandoned to their fate and need to raise large sums of money on their own. The only solution for the little Brune is to take her to the United States; His mother told me this morning that the necessary sum was 680,000 euros. How do you want the family to bear such an expense? Even by multiplying the shares in the electoral district of Touquet-Paris-Plage, which we do, it will be extremely difficult to raise this amount. My question is twofold: what are we waiting for to mobilize to fight in France against Schimke's disease and all rare diseases, and to offer the treatments available elsewhere that would significantly prolong the life expectancy of these children? Moreover, why not take the lead in a European initiative, which would allow, if each country agrees to take care of a pathology, to provide an answer on our continent? France could ask the European Commission to take up this subject which concerns all Europeans; The entry into office of the new Commission, with a new President and Commissioners, would be an opportunity to give decisive impetus to this matter. Pending these solutions, can you tell us this morning whether the Government will finally help parents who want to have their children cared for abroad when a solution is offered to them? Can you tell them that they are not left to their fate and that, pending a medical solution in France or Europe, they will be helped financially to have their child treated strangely?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u148	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u149	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u150	Mr President, thank you for your question. I understand your concerns, both those relating to care and those which are, of course, concerned with the disarray of these families. Schimke's immuno-osseous dysplasia is a multisystemic disease. Life expectancy is limited to early childhood or early adolescence in most patients due to stroke, kidney failure or infections. Today, we need to work on a care path that is the same for everyone, in order to optimize resources and improve practices for the sick person. This is the primary objective of the networks of rare disease reference centres – MRRCs – which aim to ensure the fairness of the care of patients regardless of their place of life. They are the result of a strong commitment by the Government in the framework of the third national rare diseases plan for 2018-2022, so as not to leave any single patient in his care path. With regard to the medical and medico-social care of children, all the reference centres – MRRC – and all the competence centres – MRCC – of the constitutional bone diseases of the health-care system rare diseases, OSCAR – rare diseases of bone, calcium and cartilage – are competent to follow these children. This sector comprises five constitutive reference centres and 28 centres of competence spread throughout the national territory, allowing for community access to care and counselling for families and their children. The fifty-five reference and competence centres in the "Development Anomalies and Malformative Syndrome" programme can also take care of patients with Schimke's disease and their families. These centres, like all the reference centres for rare diseases, have been relabelled for the period 2017-2022. Three French research projects are currently under way; Although they do not specifically address Schimke's disease, they aim to improve the quality and life expectancy of patients. Finally, several French associations are interested in this syndrome in order to guide families and offer them contacts with other families concerned. In coordination with the reference and competence centres, these associations are true supporters for families too often isolated and help to meet their support needs. They have an important place in the declination of the actions of the national plan rare diseases 3 towards families. Thank you once again for your question and I hope to have given this family some support and comfort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u151	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u152	Thank you for your answer, but we are already aware of the network of care you mentioned and the role of these associations. It turns out that today, the answer available in the United States for little Brune and for children suffering from the same disease does not exist in France. His parents have no alternative, to extend the life expectancy of their little girl, but to send her to the United States; In order to do so, they must raise the considerable sum of EUR 680000, which is impossible. I therefore reiterate my request: that these parents be financially relieved, that they be allowed to have their child cared for in the United States! The Government would be honoured to assist parents in the care of their child abroad, pending a concrete solution, which we all hope, in France or in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u154	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to put her question, No. 978, on the nursing record.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u155	I would like to ask you about the implementation of the nursing record, the BSI, which will replace the nursing approach, or DSI. The BSI concerns nursing, classified as nursing care in the nomenclature of nursing acts and commonly referred to as nursing care, which is needed by many dependent, disabled or elderly people. On March 29, 2019, Amendment No. 6 to the National Convention of Liberal Nurses was signed. The ISB is part of the measures contained in this amendment, the implementation of which began on 1 January this year and will be gradually extended until 1 January 2023. Several concerns were expressed by the patient associations concerned, notably by the departmental delegation of the Isère de l'Association des paralysées de France, and by health professionals. Firstly, while users now have access to their medical records, the patient is not informed of the content of the assessment and does not have recourse. How can I restore access to the BSI? Secondly, the synthesis of the information collected and the classification of nursing care is carried out by a computer algorithm and only the attending physician can decide whether or not to validate the level of care – light, intermediate or heavy. Third, the new classification results in a decrease in remuneration of EUR 3.10 less for heavy care, compared with an increase of EUR 5.05 for light care, which penalises users who need heavy care. The additional criteria are also insufficient, since they concern only tetraplegia. There is also the question of the absence of night care between twenty-three and five hours. Is there a willingness to abandon care during this time frame, while patients are currently being cared for between twenty-three hours and five hours? In addition, the package of this assessment is entirely paid to a single nurse: how to do it when several nurses intervene, as is often the case? Finally, with the exception of doctors, all medical professions meet zoning criteria: these criteria do not take into account the proportion of persons with disabilities. I haven't even managed to get the exact number of people with disabilities in my department. Madam Secretary of State, what specific elements can you give us to respond to both the recipients of this care and the healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u156	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u157	The nursing record is an innovative system that aims to improve the home care of dependent patients and coordinated care. Its design has been the subject of extensive consultation between nurses' representatives and health insurance, in order to best meet the needs of both patients and nurses. As you point out, it introduces innovative pricing per package. These packages make it possible to value the time spent, the burden of care of the nurse and the level of complexity of the acts. Its realization amounts to 25 euros. Next, three types of packages are created according to the complexity of the patient's care, ranging from 13 euros to 28.70 euros per day. These packages take care of all the care actions. These packages may include acts such as dressings, injections, monitoring or observation sessions. The nurse may also charge sickness insurance for certain supplements provided for in the nomenclature of nursing acts, specific travel allowances and kilometric allowances. Thus, the implementation of this assessment should not lead to a decrease in the remuneration of nurses or to a deterioration in care. However, the Convention provides for an assessment of the measure as early as November 2020: if a financial imbalance were found, negotiations would be opened to adopt corrective measures. Patients requiring a nurse to pass between twenty-three hours and five hours will, of course, be able to receive care; Specific tariff increases are provided for in this case. I hear you regret that the nursing record is paid entirely to a single nurse, but that does not preclude the sharing of the record between several nurses. A specific provision has been made within the framework of the law on the organization and transformation of our health system to secure this sharing. Finally, the issue of zoning is based on objective criteria, set nationally, which cannot take into account all local specificities; However, regional health agencies have some flexibility in choosing subdenses. This system, which is closely monitored by the health insurance system and the representatives of the nurses who designed it, should be given a chance: let us look at it, evaluate it and adapt it if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u158	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u159	It is indeed necessary to evaluate this innovative system, since, although it really aims to improve the care of patients while facilitating the work of nurses, there are serious concerns. Thus, the guarantees provided to secure the sharing of the package are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u160	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to put her question, No 955, on the exposure of railway personnel to asbestos and fine particulate matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u161	Madam Secretary of State, it took almost fifty years for France to become aware of the dangers of asbestos, despite the numerous unanimous studies on the issue. Today, no one denies the danger, sometimes fatal, of regular exposure to this material, as already indicated in the information report of MM. Gérard Dériot and Jean-Pierre Godefroy in 2005: The use of asbestos is responsible for 35,000 deaths between 1965 and 1995 in France and could cause up to 65,000 deaths between 2005 and 2025-2030. Apart from asbestos, air pollution by fine particles is now a public health issue. This is of particular concern in railway enclosures. All studies show that fine particulate matter levels far exceed the critical thresholds set by the World Health Organization. Thousands of workers, including RATP, are exposed daily to this serious health risk, respiratory and cardiovascular risk, which is attested by ANSES – National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work. Users themselves are much less protected by environmental standards when using underground metro and RER lines. Several trade unions, including Solidaires group RATP and Sud Rail, have called their respective directorates to organize a cohort study to identify cases of pathology. My question, Madam Secretary of State, is therefore quite simple: when will the necessary measures, such as the conduct of a cohort study, finally be taken to the actual and effective protection of RATP and railway workers? They often ask you to be received: do you intend to see them soon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u163	ANSES was seized in October 2011 by the Directorate-General for Labour, the Directorate-General for Health and the Directorate-General for Risk Prevention in order to carry out expertise on the chemical pollution of the air of underground railway transport enclosures and the associated health risks for workers. The report issued on 7 September 2015 shows that the mass concentrations of metal-rich particles, suspended in the air of underground railway enclosures, are higher than those measured in indoor air. ANSES has also made a series of recommendations on measures to prevent and reduce workers' exposure, to improve knowledge, to better assess the risks to workers, and to strengthen the air quality monitoring system of all networks to measure the effectiveness of the measures taken. ANSES also suggested that consideration be given to revising occupational exposure limit values for different dusts without specific effects. Apart from the field of work, this subject obviously affects users: following the publication of the 2015 ANSES report, meetings were held with the main rail transport operators – RATP and SNCF – as well as with the metro operators of Marseille, Lyon and Toulouse. On this occasion, a harmonized protocol for measurements of air quality in underground rail transport enclosures was defined. It was developed with the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks – INERIS. In addition, the Directorate-General for Labour has engaged in an exchange with the main operators, so that the general principles of prevention can now be set out. ANSES published in November 2019 its opinion on a proposal for an occupational exposure limit value for so-called no-specific-effect dusts. The notice recommends that the regulatory values in R. 4222-10 of the Labour Code be reduced from 10 to 4 milligrams per cubic metre of air for total dust and from 5 to 0.9 milligrams per cubic metre of air for cellular dust. The results of this evaluation, which are expected in March 2020, will enable the Ministry of Labour to change the provisions of Article R. 4222-10 of the Labour Code to set new values for dusts without specific effects. This subject is therefore dealt with in connection with the Ministry of Labour and with professionals – representatives of employees and professional organisations – with a view to limiting their exposure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u164	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u165	Given the various measures taken in 2015 and 2019, can you confirm that workers and metro users are no longer exposed to fine particles above the standard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u166	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin, to put his question, No. 964, on the damage caused by drought to homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u167	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, concerns the consequences of the 2018 drought, in particular on the construction of pavilions in clay soils, as is the case in many communes in Charente-Maritime. The geological phenomenon of soil withdrawal-swelling has caused significant damage visible on walls, terraces and slabs, in the form of cracks that have weakened the houses: in the long run they are feared their possible collapse. The costs of this disaster are very high, and many Saintongese households are unable to bear them. The mayors of four communes in my constituency, Écurat, Ecoyeux, Nieul-lès-Saintes, Pessines, as well as that of the municipality of Saint-Sulpice-d'Arnoult, have drawn my attention to a problem related to the refusal to recognize the state of natural disaster following the 2018 drought episode. They were notified on 26 September 2019 that their files were not being retained. They argue several arguments, including that of the eleven municipalities with Saintes as their main city, four were recognized in a state of natural disaster. However, the climatic and geological conditions of this territory are homogeneous. A letter dated 10 January 2020 from the Minister of the Interior informed me that a review of the situation of these municipalities would be carried out. So can we hope for a successful outcome? If this state of natural disaster was not finally recognised, what steps could be taken to speed up and simplify compensation procedures? Finally, in the very common case where the 10-year guarantee would no longer apply, I would like to know the other options.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u169	Mr President, I would like to read out the reply addressed to you by the Minister for the Interior. The applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster of the communes of Écurat, Écoyeux, Nieul-lès-Saintes, Pessines and Saint-Sulpice-d'Arnoult, filed in connection with the episode of drought-rehydration of the soil of the year 2018, were in fact rejected by an interministerial decree published in the Official Journal on 26 October 2019. In view of the slow kinetics that characterize this phenomenon and the scientific knowledge available, two criteria are taken into account in assessing its intensity: on the one hand, a geotechnical condition – a base ground of constructions made up of clay sensitive to the phenomena of withdrawal and swelling; On the other hand, a weather condition – a drought in the soil of abnormal intensity. The method used to study the situation of each municipality under this phenomenon was revised last year and is explained in detail in the circular of 10 May 2019. The aim of this methodology is to process all communal applications filed for the drought-rehydration episode of soil in 2018. It is based on an analysis of the situation of each municipality on a case-by-case basis. This method led to the national recognition of 3983 communes for the 2018 drought episode, more than 70% of those who requested it. In Charente-Maritime, 41 communes were recognised on the basis of the above criteria. The Ministry of the Interior will carry out a careful analysis of the ex gratia appeals lodged by the municipalities mentioned and will provide all necessary details to the municipalities concerned. I would remind you, however, that in order to decide on the recognition of a commune in a state of natural disaster, the administrative authority is obliged to decide on the abnormal intensity of the natural agent causing the damage and not on the extent of the damage themselves. The Government does not ignore the effects of drought and soil rehydration on certain buildings in Charente-Maritime in 2018. However, only those communes where this drought episode has been shown to be abnormally intense will be recognized as natural disasters, in accordance with current regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u170	Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u171	Madam Secretary of State, I thank the Minister of the Interior for his answer. I will carefully follow up on this issue, especially as this concern is shared by many other municipalities. Beyond the ministerial decision, the slowness of the compensation procedures is a subject that we must deal with collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u172	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor to put her question, No. 967, on the accommodation of police officers in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u173	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the difficulties encountered by the officials of the national police in finding accommodation in the Alpes-Maritimes. I know how much the Government listens to the police and pays attention to their difficulties. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, it has taken many concrete steps to improve their working conditions. However, many police unions recall that it is essential that police officers be accommodated decently, together with their families, in the vicinity of their workplace. However, police officers in the Alpes-Maritimes, who are increasingly involved in all aspects of the maintenance of public order and the fight against terrorism, crime and crime, face significant difficulties in finding accommodation. Without sufficient income, it becomes almost impossible for a peacekeeper to access the property in the department, as the prices of real estate are exorbitant. This is also the case with rents. In my constituency, for example, many police officers at the Menton police station are forced to live in the hinterland, tens of kilometres away from their workplace. The issue of housing was of great concern not only from the point of view of the incumbents, but also for the future recruitment of police officers. Because of the situation I described, the police are no longer attracted to the department of the Alpes-Maritimes. According to the information provided to me, the 2018 mutation ranking table shows that the transfer pools are zero for the entire department, while twenty years ago, more than 400 police officers were waiting to be transferred there. We must guarantee the law enforcement forces living conditions up to the level of their investment for the benefit of our fellow citizens, but also recruit new police officers in the Alpes-Maritimes, France's eighth most dangerous department, affected by delinquency, violence, radicalisation and irregular immigration. It is also necessary to ensure the safety of the many cultural and sporting events taking place there. Is it possible to experiment, in the Alpes-Maritimes, with a plan of housing support for women and men currently in office but also for future recruits? We could bring together all stakeholders – police stations, departments, town halls and HLM offices, among others – to develop a protocol to ensure that all law enforcement officials have access to decent housing, close to their work, at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u174	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u175	Allow me, Madam Member, to provide you with the response of the Ministry of the Interior. Every day, police officers ensure, with dedication, professionalism and courage, the protection of our fellow citizens. The Government gives priority attention to their living and working conditions. He has taken strong initiatives in this area. I am thinking in particular of setting up a suicide prevention system to match the problem, but also of experimenting with new time cycles, which must, among other objectives, make it possible to better reconcile the constraints of working and personal life. The issue of housing is a sensitive one for many of our citizens. It is more so for the police because, as you know, of their particular rhythms of work. You are therefore right, Madam Member, to call our attention to this matter. The Ministry of the Interior is pursuing an active policy in this area, for which it mobilised 15.4 million euros in 2019. He has developed a policy of housing agreements directly with social donors, mainly in Île-de-France, where difficulties are concentrated. It must be possible to extend it to other territories. In departments which, like the Alpes-Maritimes, are experiencing particular tensions, police officers can benefit from prefectural contingent housing. I would also point out that, with regard to home ownership, the Ministry of the Interior extended a zero-rate loan scheme to the Alpes-Maritimes in 2014. This is a supplementary loan for departmental officials who wish to acquire their first principal residence in either the new or the old one. The amount varies according to the composition of the household. Nevertheless, the difficulties remain real, and we are well aware of them. You can be sure, honourable Member, that the Minister of the Interior will be attentive to the progress that can be made on this issue, of which he knows the importance for police officers and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u176	Mrs Alexandra Valetta Ardisson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u177	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for sharing with me the response of the Minister of the Interior. I will also be vigilant: I will make sure that the department of the Alpes-Maritimes benefits from all possible measures, so that its police officers are housed decently. I have duly taken note of the steps already taken by the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u178	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to raise her question, No. 966, concerning the university hospital centre in Angers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u179	In the territories – as you know, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health – health care workers are questioning the state of the health system. The university hospital – CHU – in Angers does not escape the strike movement. Despite a culture of appeasement dear to Anjou, it seems that social dialogue within the CHU is becoming increasingly difficult. Health professionals even evoke a breach of trust with the state. In this context, I have met various CHU professionals, three times since December. In particular, this provided an opportunity to discuss the plan to invest in the hospital, which plans to speed up the momentum. Although satisfactory in many respects, the measures in this plan are worrying about others. The questions relate in particular to the concrete consequences of the budgetary effort, albeit real. Will the increase in the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – only fund the necessary human resources measures or will it also help to address the investment gap in public institutions? In view of the justified concerns of public hospital professionals, it seems to me that concrete measures should be taken. The CHU has been calling for the restructuring and renovation of its emergency department for many years. With more than 60000 patients per year, emergency rooms are old and inadequate for their needs and those of professionals. Renovation of emergencies must be the first step towards a broader renovation of the technical trays, necessary to maintain the quality of care, but also to the attractiveness, from the point of view of both patients and practitioners. Finally, let us remember that the expectations of patients and, consequently, the needs of professionals will change as a result of the advances allowed by the future law on bioethics. Thus, the CHU's reproductive health service will also have to be restructured and expanded. The development of donation, ovocative self-conservation and systematic psychological assessment of couples engaging in LDC proceedings will require both material and human resources. I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, whether the vast restructuring project of the Angers CHU will be supported and implemented quickly. The challenge is to maintain, in the territories, this public service of excellence, carried at the end of the arm by exceptional professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u180	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u181	Thank you for your question, Member. It gives me the opportunity to take stock of the additional resources allocated recently to the CHU d'Angers. On the one hand, the institution benefited from a EUR 1699635 envelope in the framework of the investment plan for the hospital, presented last November, and, on the other hand, EUR 667383 in the framework of the emergency restructuring pact. The distribution of investment credits among the poles was discussed at a meeting of the management board of the establishment, which quickly met the needs and improved the working conditions of the teams. In addition, the Regional Health Agency – ARS – has committed to provide EUR 1 million per year for three years for current investment under the return-to-balance contract, whose trajectory is faster than expected. On 23 January, the Director General of the ARS, Jean-Jacques Coiplet, met with all the CHU's pole chiefs and the members of its Executive Board. The exchanges highlighted the satisfaction of the medical community with the support and support provided by the RSA under the return to balance contract, as well as with current and structural investment. The ARS supports and supports the Angers CHU in its project to restructure the emergency technical platform, which will be integrated into a larger restructuring project of the institution, which is a pavilion hospital. This project should be an opportunity to fully review emergency management, including the reception of patients at admissions and adult emergencies. The future set will also provide a modern and functional ambulatory space close to the new operating rooms, which will simplify the path of patients coming for surgery or interventional action. I would add that the Government will, in the coming months, present a plan to strengthen all the centres in LDCs, in line with the evolution of their activities intended by the legislator in the context of the work on the future Bioethics Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u182	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u183	For meeting with the Director General of the SRA, I know that working relationships are good and that the institution is accompanied. However, I believe it is necessary to recall that the substantial investment in it, in the interests of both staff and patients, raises high expectations. The attractiveness of institutions is related to their ability to deliver operational services that are aligned with expectations and needs. The investment will also have to make it possible to adapt the equipment, the establishment being in particular waiting for a scanner. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, and will continue to follow this file.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u184	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to put her question, No. 969, concerning the Gemalto site in Pont-Audemer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u185	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance. At the end of January, Thales Group's management announced that it was preparing to launch an active employment management plan – GAE – which would concern employees of the former Gemalto, purchased by Thales in April 2019. On the site of Pont-Audemer, a demonstration brought together several hundred people, at the call of the unions. Thales' decision is justified by the slowdown in the SIM card market, an area in which Gemalto is specialised. Projections show that this market is expected to decline from 2023 onwards. The production site at Pont-Audemer, which employs 330 people, is particularly vulnerable, with almost half of its workforce potentially affected by the EAG plan. The management of the company indicated that this procedure would not result in any termination of employment and that it would be based on volunteerism. However, this promise is difficult to reassure. Firstly, two thirds of the employees at the Pont-Audemer manufacturing plant are operators whose remuneration does not allow optimal professional mobility. Secondly, the EAG plan raises concerns about the eventual closure of the site, while it is one of the last industrial bastions in this rural area. Finally, in the event of a lack of agreement at the end of the EAG procedure, it may lead to redundancies. Trade unions and local elected representatives argue that the Pont-Audemer site has always been successful and has demonstrated its competitiveness. They call for a reindustrialization plan to ensure that its activity is sustainable. With more than 25% of Thales Group's capital, the state is the majority shareholder. What commitments does the Government intend to make to ensure a future for the Pont-Audemer site and its employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u186	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u187	You draw the attention of the Minister of Economy and Finance to the situation of the Pont-Audemer site, acquired by Thales in 2019 during the acquisition of Gemalto. You recalled, this site produces SIM cards and employs 330 people. Aware of the negative outlook of the SIM card market even before the acquisition of Gemalto, the Thales group decided to take an active approach to the management of skills and employment, in order to give the staff of this site prospects of professional development within the group. Enterprises too rarely engage in such an approach of anticipation and consideration of the prospects. Beyond the emotion that Thales' announcement can give me, I believe that he is responsible for looking at the reality of technological developments and preparing collectively to deal with them. In this case, beyond anticipation, it is important to take into account the specificities that you have mentioned, in order to ensure the full effectiveness of the approach undertaken by the company and its social partners. The Minister of Economy and Finance will pay particular attention to this. Be assured that the Minister will ensure that the comprehensive accompanying measures announced by the Thales Group are implemented without delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u188	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u189	The issue is not only job support – reassignments are likely to be difficult, as the other establishments in Gemalto are quite distant – but also the future of industry in this rural area affected by unemployment. What part of the company's potential can be redeployed to the Pont-Audemer site?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u190	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 981, concerning the classification of the Gallo-Roman wall of Le Mans by UNESCO.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u191	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Culture to the candidacy of the city of Le Mans, for its Gallo-Roman wall, to the World Heritage Classification established by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO. This request is currently being processed by the Ministry of Culture; the file can then be presented and supported by the State before the UNESCO bodies. Dating from the third century, this wall is one of the best preserved monuments of the ancient Roman Empire, like the enclosures of the imperial capitals of Rome and Byzantium. 800 meters long, for a perimeter of 1300 meters originally, it is one of the most important remains of the entire old Gaul. It is therefore a rare monument, made of bricks and russerd stones bound by a pink mortar. The public can still discover twelve doors and three poternes today. At this point, our country has just forty cultural sites and three natural sites on the famous UNESCO list. Since many countries are candidates for recognition of their heritage, there is a form of competition between communities and monuments in France, but also in Europe and around the world. What are the historical, conservation and valorisation criteria for the heritage, and does the State intend to make the French heritage prevail in order to establish a priority list of monuments and to determine whether this flagship monument of Le Mans should be presented in the world rankings? The latter must, by definition, take into account a wide variety of periods, structures, efforts and cultures. Is there any reflection between the countries of the European Union, and by the Union itself, to promote certain monuments in Europe and in the world? Does France intend to participate actively in this action? This would allow the recognition, on the scale of our continent and then that of the world, of many unique monuments, cultural elements whose shared past unites people and peoples beyond periods, such as the Roman wall of Le Mans. I thank you in advance for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, and will remain very attentive to the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u192	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u193	Since 2011, the city of Le Mans has been preparing an application for inscription on the UNESCO World Heritage List. The Government welcomes this and fully supports it. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition are responsible for the State's follow-up to the 1972 UNESCO Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. As such, they advise applicants to the World Heritage List, while ensuring respect for the spirit of the Convention and the priorities of the World Heritage Committee. In fact, according to the terms of the Convention, only goods of exceptional universal value may be included in the World Heritage List and applications must first be included in the national indicative list. In 2012, the French World Heritage Committee, on the basis of a dossier provided by the city of Le Mans, recommended that the application be further developed in order to demonstrate the exceptional universal value of the good in order to consider its possible inclusion in the national indicative list. Since then, the city of Le Mans has been working on a refocused file on the perimeter of its Roman enclosure; it will have to be forwarded to the Ministry of Culture in order to be expertised with a view to possible inclusion in the national indicative list, prior to the continuation of an application at international level. In response to your question on the subject, I would like to inform you that, at European level, various Member States of the European Union decided in 2005, at the initiative of France, to create the European Heritage Label. Today, adopted by the European Union, its aim is to highlight the European dimension of cultural objects, monuments, cultural sites, places of memory, witnesses to the history of Europe or to the construction of Europe. France now has several labeled sites, such as the Cluny Abbey, Robert Schuman's house and the European neighbourhood of Strasbourg. Beyond applying to UNESCO, we can only encourage the city of Le Mans to reflect on complementary forms of labelling. Be assured of the support of the Government to carry out these reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u194	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u195	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the information you have just given us. I can assure you that the city of Le Mans has been working for a long time on this candidacy which, to be supported, deserves to be expanded and enriched with new elements. We rely heavily on the examination of the file by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In fact, natural sites are located near the Gallo-Roman wall. Anyway, we're continuing our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u196	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-11-O1138.u197	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law of 23 July 2010 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law amending the law of 23 July 2020 on the application of the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution and extending the mandate of the members of the High Authority for the dissemination of works and the protection of rights on the Internet; Discussion of the bill ratifying Order No. 2019-235 of 27 March 2019 on criminal provisions and criminal procedure of the Saint-Martin Urban Planning Code. The meeting is adjourned.
