ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill by Messrs. Alain Bruneel, Pierre Dharréville and several of their colleagues in favour of a law of programming for the public hospital and residential institutions for dependent elderly people (No. 3004, 3073).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u3	"If today is still the time to mobilize to stop this terrible epidemic as quickly as possible, we must also think about the future, learn all the lessons from this health crisis and work already on the construction of the next day. From this paragraph, taken from the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the Government does not reject a word; It is proof, if necessary, that beyond our differences, we can agree on the essentials. First of all, I would like to commend the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for its long-term work and Mr Bruneel for his determination. This work is based on a French tour of health echoing that carried out a few decades ago by Jack Ralite, then Communist Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u6	The Government shares many of the diagnoses made by the authors of the bill. The health crisis that we are going through has been a revelation, an electroshock; It is a test of truth, which forces us to make choices, namely what values we place at the heart of our social pact. Among these values, solidarity and health have come before all others. Acting rigorously, blindly holding a budget heading when lives are at stake is no longer a matter of responsibility; It is to forget that the figures, in themselves, make little sense. The health of our fellow citizens, the solidarity that makes everyone protected, is what, in recent weeks, the Government has considered to be the fundamental values of our nation. There are, of course, costly decisions, but there are also issues that do not have a price. An unprecedented exercise, Ségur de la santé, is underway to provide new ambitions for caregivers and our entire health care system. Perhaps he leaves you puzzled; If that is the case, I regret it, because it has many hopes. We do not elucidate any subject that would allow for a better recognition of caregivers, of what they do, of what they are. Mr Bruneel, let me repeat this: it is not a question of drafting an umpteenth report, it is a question of finding concrete solutions quickly. What we want to build with caregivers is a health care system that is governed not by an accounting logic, but by the only thing that matters: care. The issue of careers and remuneration is not a secondary one; It's paramount. We won't dodge it, far from it. You are calling for a multi-year programming law for public hospital and EHPADs. We share this ambition in substance; We consider it necessary to increase multi-year visibility, which has been lacking in recent years in EHPAD and public hospitals. Should I remind you that last October, at the time of the review of the Social Security Funding Bill, we committed ourselves to giving this multi-year vision to health institutions, which have rightly been asking for it for a long time? In February, Agnès Buzyn concluded a memorandum of understanding with the federations of health institutions and, for the first time, recorded the progress of the resources of these institutions in a multi-annual way. In addition, the Government has been working for months to reform the old age and loss of autonomy sectors. In 1945 the creation of public social insurance against the risk of sickness or accident at work was decided; This week, the Assembly voted in favour of the creation of a fifth branch of social security, so that we can accompany our elders in the best possible conditions. In our turn, we make the choice of public insurance against a new risk to which all French people are exposed. Everyone knows that we are facing a demographic wall: in 2040, French people aged 75 and over will represent almost 15% of the population, or 10.6 million people, twice as many as today. The welfare state of the 21st century is not an expression intended to have a good effect in a discourse, it is a requirement: to protect each one from his or her first breath to his or her last sigh. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we can rejoice in being the ones that create a fifth branch of social security. Many had spoken of it, many had dreamed of it; We'll do it, at last. The fifth branch sounds worse than the big night, but for me, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the moment is no less solemn. Once these foundations are laid, we will have to build the house, that is, the public policy we want for our elders. Consultation with local authorities and representatives of the sector began fifteen days ago. Its overall objective is to preserve the free choice of seniors to the end, offering them the opportunity to stay at home in a variety of ways depending on their needs. This requires a strong ambition for the home care and accompaniment sector; by changing the model of EHPADs in order to make them real places of life, adapted to the heaviest needs thanks to a higher rate of supervision; through strong support for the development of a third path, i.e. shared habitat solutions, human-sized living units, but where medical support will be possible. This requires an ambition for the professions of old age, which must become the driving force behind the policy of caring, and an investment in the walls, through the creation or adaptation of diverse places of life for our seniors. The strategy resulting from this consultation will be implemented over several years; The aim is to be at the rendezvous, whether it is today's emergencies or tomorrow's demographic explosion. We will introduce new legislation to give the French a multi-year visibility. The debate is imminent. Your bill is an opening up to the immense challenges that lie ahead – or rather, that are no longer waiting for us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the verticality and national nature of the proposed method makes it difficult for the Government to agree to this bill. Our health system needs flexibility, simplification; It must be thought of on a territorial scale, not exclusively from Paris. If we diverge on the method, I have no doubt that in the coming weeks and months we will find ourselves around unprecedented ambitions for our health system, for our medico-social system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u7	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville spoke for a period of not more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u8	"White blouses, black anger": this is one of the slogans that we could read on Tuesday in the procession of the hospital staff of Martigues. A lot of them throughout the country were protesting – not to mention those who had not been able to do so because of a requisition: the hospital never stops. After the confinement was lifted, it did not take long for the parades to resume. The anger has even risen by one step, because the health crisis has spilled over into maltreated public hospitals, the demands remedied in every tone for months or even years, having not received an answer – and yet, it is not for lack of warning of the danger. Behind the applause that sounded every night at 20 o'clock, behind the support of hospital staff, there was not only gratitude for them, there was also a repeated call to hear their cry, to recognize their work, to take care of those who care, to give strength to our public service. I heard in committee that our bill is opportunistic. You will agree that we are poor in terms of opportunism. It's been so long since we've been denouncing the bias towards reducing health spending and the resources allocated to the public hospital! Madam Secretary of State, you have recalled, and I thank you, the tour of France of the hospitals that we have, with Alain Bruneel and Laurence Cohen, started in 2017. He confirmed to us the seriousness of the crisis, the destitution of the hospital, the ill-treatment inflicted on its agents. This turn of France led to this bill. It was developed on the ground, discussing with health actors; It includes measures to reorient our health policy as a matter of urgency. If other choices had been made, we would not have found ourselves in such a catastrophic situation. It is true that these choices are well before 2017, although they have been constantly followed since. Already in 2001, the Communist elected representatives of the Assembly were taking up the niche during the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security, the PLFSS; I understand that, in the absence of the desired guarantees, they abstained at the time of the vote on the budget. In any event, ONDAM, the national goal of health insurance spending, is still there, restructuring projects are still part of the landscape, and the major plan for the hospital remains elusive. In this context, it can be understood that the medals do not make a recipe. Staff do not expect rewards, rewards; He simply wants to be given the means to do his job properly. During the crisis, he didn't just lack masks, he missed everything. And this continues: the hospital lives in a shortage, to pronounce the word taboo. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left could not allow this day of parliamentary initiative to pass without trying to act in favour of the public hospital. We have left aside, for the time being, our proposal for a law in favour of maternity, which was to be on the agenda of this day, as well as the proposal to create a public drug service; We focused on the hospital and the EHPADs. Some people blame us. Yet it is an essential issue, a separate issue. When a disaster occurs, it is to the public hospital that one turns; He's the one who's been asked to welcome the patients. It is a common health tool. We therefore have a common, particular responsibility. The hospital is a public property, a popular property. We were often told that he only encountered a problem of organization and that, with some modifications, the screw tower would pass cream. But the public hospital is a living organism, which constantly adapts. It needs resources, a major hiring plan, which should already be under way, major investment plans, training, a large plan to raise wages, and not a depressing bonus. The damage is considerable; they call for action in the long term. That is why we are proposing a five-year programming law. It would bring us out of the immediate contingencies, while responding to them. It would free us from the hazards of the economic situation, from the short view of an annual budget which always tries to add to the pressure exerted by the previous one by providing resources that are less than the announced expenditure. We propose to give air to the hospital, to give it means, time. We propose to raise the head to look further. The hospital, already fragile, has just suffered a brutal shock; He must be given the opportunity to recover, to get out of the debt imposed on him. It must be removed from this wage tax, through which the State indirectly punctuates social security, and in reality hospitals. You have to take the time to put things down. Despite the difficulties encountered, new links have been established between professionals within the territorial health professional communities; the connection with the establishments has been revived. These ties must be strengthened. Staff and patients must no longer live under the threat of accumulated and sedimented restrictions. We must, not set ourselves targets for controlling and reducing health insurance spending, which would mean imposing a severe diet, but triggering a new momentum. These ambitions should be placed on the agenda and the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, if it does not rewrite Sophie's misfortunes, should be reflected in a law of programming as well as in immediate measures. The echoes we have do not reassure us, but we want to propose a framework for possible good proposals that could emerge from it. By the way, I invite you to really give what you promise. Do not make announcements that you plan to disappoint or not fully honour. So, really, give hospital managers the means to cope. I am thinking in particular of the premium announcements, which obviously have not fully met expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u9	And these were big!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u10	I have already said what I think about the bonuses and this method of intervention, which does not meet the demands, but I will still ask you a question: Is it normal for the Government to announce the payment of a premium to the personnel concerned for 2020 but to calculate the funding compared to the 2018 workforce? This process is questionable and inappropriate. We want to offer the same perspective to EHPAD as to public hospitals, because they also suffered, and how many, during the crisis. We must build a public centre of autonomy and launch a major training and hiring plan in the EHPADs, based on the recommendations from the report of our colleagues Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u12	...a large plan to reorganize the reception, a large plan to renovate the establishments, a large plan to adapt the territorial grid, a great plan to stop selling public EHPADs and to rely more and more on the singers of the silver economy and the appetites of the market. These measures will provide a framework for a comprehensive health policy that we must reshape by pursuing a drug policy, a prevention policy, a health policy at work, a policy of health equality, a new policy for city medicine. There is much to be done to ensure that health becomes a universal right and to remove it from the horrors of commodification. In order to bring about health, the human is sold and the sense of care is lost, at the risk of beginning decivilization. Colleagues, what have we learned from this terrible ordeal? What would we have agreed to look at? What would we have listened to from the country struggling to get rid of the claws of the epidemic? What will we have heard from staff, including caregivers? Nothing must be the same as before for the public hospital. I was still reading this formula on the leaflets distributed in my territory: "Enough beautiful words, we want actions! » [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and EDS groups. – Ms. Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] Our proposal is simple: it is a question of setting a framework and charting perspectives in order, from today, to strengthen our hospital, our EHPADs, our system of care and respect the agents, whatever their function. I think we could do it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u13	Mrs Iborra has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u14	While decompartmentalisation must be at the heart of our health system, while the health crisis has just shown that only policies that promote cooperation between the hospital, public or private sector, city medicine, the health and medical-social sector are effective, you are presenting us, Mr rapporteur, with a proposal for a law which is similar to a multi-year planning and programming exercise for public hospitals and EHPAD alone. While coordination between the actors in the territories should be improved, your project, which is highly reducing and centralized, ignores the territories, the reality of existing and differentiated organisations, which must cooperate in the greatest readability in order to take proper care of the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u15	Like they're not already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u16	Your proposal could be justified by the fact that it concerns many actors, who legitimately expect substantial reforms that have been too late. Recognize, however, that the President of the Republic and the Government have publicly committed themselves to meeting these expectations, in particular those relating to salary adjustments, recruitment of staff in hospitals and EHPADs. This is the subject of the Ségur de la santé, whose conclusions are expected to be made public in mid-July. So your bill comes too soon or too late. Too soon, because we could have recognized its relevance if it had planned to correct the shortcomings of a government plan that you would have found unsatisfactory. Too late...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u17	Oh, that's enough! We're tired of hearing these bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u18	... since some of the recommendations contained in the single article of your bill are already satisfied and in breach of the actions carried out by previous governments – the law on hospital reform and on patients, health and territories, for example – and which the following governments did not wish to amend. The report submitted today to Olivier Véran should satisfy you, in that it plans to change governance, particularly within the public hospital. We have made decisions, of which I will mention just a few examples. The measures taken for the 2019 tariff and fiscal year break with the long cycle of tariff decline that institutions have experienced in recent years. The principle of a multi-year progression of resources has been included for the first time in a memorandum of understanding signed with the federations of health institutions – what you are asking for today. The redemption of hospital debt and, since 2018, the progression of ONDAM are also decisions that meet your expectations. It is true that we will have to go further and faster, but the political will of the Government and of our majority is complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u19	Yes, in two words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will not vote for your bill, too reductive and centralized to be effective in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u21	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u22	The proposed law in favour of a law of programming for the public hospital and residential institutions for dependent elderly people, tabled by our colleagues in the group of the Democratic and Republican Left, attracts our full attention, and even that of all the French. It is undeniable that the public hospital suffers. The warning screams of healthcare workers, doctors, nurses and caregivers have been legion, for the time being their demands have not found any real echo; The Government's announcements and the many plans built by the majority have succeeded only in leading us to a dead end and aggravating tensions and discontent. The health crisis has only exacerbated tensions and highlighted the shortcomings of our health system – to which we are all viscerally attached. We all know that on these benches: the lack of resources, staff, quality infrastructure, equipment and facilities have led to this crisis. Unfortunately, the list is not exhaustive. We can only deplore these shortcomings, but we must, without further delay, fill them. The purpose of this bill is to introduce a programming law to plan, every five years, the resources allocated to hospitals and public EHPADs. I share your point, ladies and gentlemen: it is necessary and essential to include our health policies, with coherence and pragmatism, in a long-term vision. The health system has suffered for too long from split, short-term measures taken in the emergency of crises that have multiplied, intensified and aggravated. We must now define a clear vision, a rational strategy and a precise framework. However, this project must be comprehensive. It must concern all actors in the health system, not just the public sector. The removal of private hospitals and clinics could hinder the necessary coordination between actors and penalise our health policies. It is therefore essential to reflect on a comprehensive strategy that takes into account all stakeholders, whether private or public. As early as 2018, the Republicans Group alerted the Government to its lack of vision and strategy for the health sector and proposed concrete measures to address it. Our proposals included filling gaps, strengthening prevention policy and conducting a five-year public health policy to anticipate the needs and objectives of all stakeholders in our health system. We agree, without detours or fioriture, with the substance of your bill, but it lacks a part devoted to prevention. A care policy cannot be effective if sufficient financial resources are not devoted to a strategic policy of sustainable prevention. For these reasons, the Republican Group is not in favour of the bill proposed by our colleagues from the Democratic and Republican Left. Nevertheless, we are more convinced than ever that the re-engineering of our health system requires a long-term strategy that is coherent and defined with all stakeholders in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u23	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u24	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Alain Bruneel for giving us the opportunity to discuss a subject that concerns us all: the means of the public hospital and the EHPADs. Let us be careful, however, not to partition our reasoning. If we think about care by forgetting prevention and public health, the hospital will always ask for more resources and turn into a barrel of Danaides, which none of us wants. The health of the French must be our main concern. The hospital must be a priority, but not the only one. Our first concern must be public health, that is, our ability to act on the determinants of health, which is the only way to prevent the French from having to go to hospital. While our system of care, that is, the individual approach, is effective, the prevention and population-based approach to public health shows many shortcomings. Let me give you an enlightening example, recently highlighted by the Court of Auditors. Our country now has 87,000 patients with renal insufficiency who need dialysis, 14,000 more than five years ago. This 20% increase in dialysis patients has increased the need for hospital staff and funding. The first thing to do to help the public hospital is to act upstream, through prevention, in order to avoid the increase in the number of chronic patients, because the more there will be, the more expensive it will be. The patient must be our second priority. In your bill, you refer to the number of establishments, their operation, their organisation, the creation of beds, the recruitment of staff, the revalorisation of wages, the tenure of contract agents. All these issues are important, but the hospital must, first of all, be at the service of the sick. Is there any mention of the sick in your bill? No, it's only about the hospital's means. The proper diagnosis and diagnosis requires a comprehensive collection of data to determine the health status of the population, whether school, student, wage earners, the elderly or those placed in a medico-social setting. This compendium must be territorialised, in order to adapt health policies to the specificities of the territories. We do not treat in Brittany as we treat in the Great East: the size of the costume must be adapted to the size of the person who wears it. Finally, we agree on the need for more resources to be allocated to the hospital and to the institutions housing dependent elderly people: that is why, when considering the last draft law on the financing of social security, thanks to a proposal from the members of the Committee on Social Affairs, we have been able to adopt the principle of a multiannual budget for hospitals. This, as the Secretary of State pointed out, is an important step. While a clear and precise roadmap on the evolution of hospital spending is necessary, your bill is nevertheless hemiplegic: it deals only with the public hospital by ignoring the ESPICs – private health institutions of collective interest – and, more generally, the private one. However, the subject must be dealt with in a comprehensive manner. Similarly, the text addresses the only issue of means without addressing the issue of governance. The problem is not just financial! We need to rethink the hospital in its overall environment. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will make proposals, within the framework of the Segur de la Santé, to improve the governance of the hospital and in favour of convergence, in terms of objectives, of all healthcare institutions – public sector, ESPIC and private institutions – as part of a contract. As you know, the issue of loss of autonomy is on the agenda. A first step has been taken in the framework of the draft organic law and the draft ordinary law on social debt and autonomy, which sanction the creation of a new branch of social security, specifically dedicated to the loss of autonomy – 2.3 billion euros are spent on it thanks to the allocation of part of the revenue from the general social contribution to the national solidarity fund for autonomy. In addition, a conference of financers should begin its work soon, in order to reflect on the room for manoeuvre to finance the loss of autonomy and dependence, particularly within the framework of the EHPADs. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Of course, the proposal for a law is interesting, particularly with regard to staff. However, the issue of hospital and EHPAD cannot be reduced to that of staff or financial measures: developing prevention and serving patients must be our priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u25	We never said otherwise. It's essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u26	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u27	Our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left today invite us to consider a bill in favour of a programming law for the public hospital and residential institutions for dependent elderly people. If this is something we need because of the dramatic consequences of the covid-19 crisis on hospitals and EHPADs, it is neither a surprise nor a novelty. First, the epidemic has only strengthened and highlighted the difficulties faced by these structures and the personnel involved in the operation of these essential services to our citizens. Then, the Socialist and related group, which had identified these difficulties well in advance of the crisis, continued to multiply the proposals since 2017. This was particularly the case last fall, after eighteen months of strikes in the hospital public services, since on October 22, 2019, we had already proposed an emergency plan for hospital and autonomy, which consisted of fifteen measures that this government is now forced to put on the table as part of the Ségur de la santé. In particular, I am thinking of the need to improve the treatment of health care and non-care workers in hospitals and health facilities, to strengthen investment and to introduce a simple rule: zero removal of posts in the bed of the patient. However, while the Government had the opportunity to take up this issue in the context of the review of the latest bill on the financing of social security, it decided to listen, as always since 2017, to the proposals emanating from the opposition. In fact, when we examined this bill in the Committee on Social Affairs, we again heard the majority, with the aplomb we know, claiming that it was an opportunistic project. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that your speeches will not, once again, live up to the legitimate expectations expressed by health professionals, who have been at the front in the battle against the epidemic of covid-19. Today, they show their impatience and anger – as was the case this Tuesday afternoon, in the immediate vicinity of the Assembly. Where is opportunism, in a text that proposes concrete actions towards public hospitals, EHPADs, those who work there and those who are in charge of them, with the definition of a legal tool to engrave the measures envisaged in the marble of the law? We still do not know what will result from the health segur launched by the Government. That is why it is urgent to speed up the movement. Hospitals and EHPADs cannot wait for the hypothetical measures contained in the PLFSS for 2021: it will be too late! The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the fact that such a bill is submitted to our vote, because it gives itself the means to respond, at least in part, to urgent demands for remuneration, staff, number of beds, as well as to structural questions on the place of the hospital and its link with city medicine, on governance and on investments. We are used to examining public finance or military programming bills; In the case of hospitals and EHPADs, such a programming law would allow the State to make commitments over a long period of time, which would survive political alternations. The Socialist Party, based on its National Assembly and Senate groups, is once again making proposals on the hospital and the EHPADs, on the occasion of the publication of its recovery plan "For an economic, social and ecological rebound". In particular, we propose to invest heavily in the hospital and to resume the debt of public hospitals; increase the salaries of caregivers – who are far less paid than their colleagues in OECD countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; to put an end to staff cuts in hospitals and to make clear and quantified commitments to the creation of posts and number of caregivers in bed; reform the ONDAM, so that it contains objectives and quantified commitments in terms of staff and beds; Finally, to finance emergency services on the basis of indicators of precariousness, not just demographic indicators. As far as EHPADs are concerned, we call for an increase in the fixed remuneration of their staff, so that it is more in line with their daily commitment, rather than giving them a simple bonus, which will, moreover, be very difficult to apply on the ground. In addition, there is an urgent need to launch a major recruitment plan for the creation of an additional 800,000 posts by 2024. Finally, in order to improve the lives of our elders and their accompanying staff, the Socialists want a massive plan to renovate EHPADs and independent residences to be launched this year and over ten years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] All these measures, some of which are intended to be multi-year, would be fully part of a programming law for the public hospital and EHPADs. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u29	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u30	Mr Bruneel's bill seems extremely interesting to us. I will look at it from three angles: context, form and background. The context, first of all: we have known for many years that we need to review the functioning of public hospitals, to provide for a more correct remuneration of health-care workers and to have the public and the private sector work together in the national territory. In addition, due to the deterioration in working conditions for years as a result of the T2A – activity pricing – parliamentarians and the Government must give their full support to the healthcare staff and to the hospital as a whole. The form, then: a law of programming, as has already been said, is a good framework for working to improve the working conditions of caregivers. There is already a law on military programming; We call for an internal security programming law for police and gendarmes: it is not inconsistent to want a programming law for the public hospital. The bottom line is that more work is needed on the bill, particularly with regard to the relationship between the public and the private sector. In the Vosges, the regional health agency, the ARS, wanted to bring two public maternity wards together, completely ignoring a private maternity ward present in one of the two cities concerned. Through discussions – I thank the members of Mrs Buzyn's cabinet, then Minister of Solidarity and Health – we were able to promote territorial coherence between the public and the private, rather than a simple connection between two public maternity wards. However, the text does not sufficiently address the relationship between the public and the private sector. The link between the hospital and the city should also be deepened, especially since, in the majority of cases, mayors are the presidents of the boards of public hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u31	Not anymore. They don't have any more power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u32	At least that's the case in the Vosges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u33	The board of directors no longer exists. The body that replaced it is called the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u34	Well, it's usually the mayor who heads the hospital's supervisory board. In any event, it is important to address this issue. Why not give the presidents of the supervisory boards more power?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u35	As far as I'm concerned, I agree. That is what is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u36	If the idea is good, the favourable context and the appropriate form, the monetary aspect of the question should also be taken into account. This is where the bill hurts, since a bill does not necessarily include an impact assessment. We cannot therefore know the cost of the arrangements. We cannot afford to say to our fellow citizens: "We shave for free"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u37	We can tell them, "We're treating you all! We don't shave, but we treat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u38	If we want to be pragmatic, and I'm trying to be pragmatic, we need numbers. I repeat: the idea is good, but we must be pragmatistic and be able to estimate the cost of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u39	Let's fund the needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u40	That is why the IDU and independent group is thinking of abstaining in the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u41	All right! Nice speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u42	Mr. Philippe Vigier has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u43	Since the beginning of the Ségur de la santé and, above all, in the aftermath of an epidemic that has experienced them more than ever, the mobilization of healthcare workers has resumed all over France. This is proof that the consultation opened since 25 May is not yet up to expectations and that there is a need to provide concrete answers to the demands for improving working conditions and the quality of service provided by the hospital, both public and private – you will allow me, colleagues in the GDR Group, to mention the latter, which also fulfils public service tasks. These claims, the Libertés et territoires group, know and accompany them. These are, of course, the revalorisation of careers for staff, which is in all the mouths, but also the recruitment problems encountered throughout the territory and the sometimes untimely closures of the public service. I also greet the delegation of your political family who had moved to Châteaudun to announce the closure of maternity and emergencies – fortunately, we finally managed to save them. All these demands have one thing in common: the questioning of fiscal austerity policies. In this respect, it is necessary to make honourable amends on all benches: I have been in this house for a few years and, every year, I note that the budget allocated to hospitals is the adjustment variable – no one will be able to contradict me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u44	Anicet Le Pors, perhaps – but it goes back a long way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u45	Of course, as we have just been through an exceptional crisis, there will have to be an exceptional response, but it should not be forgotten that medical and social institutions and EHPADs have also suffered from the crisis. Thanks to the work of the fact-finding mission on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the covid -19 coronavirus epidemic, which was given the prerogatives of a commission of inquiry, we know that, unfortunately, one third of the deaths related to the virus occurred in EHPADs. You all remember the two important reports on the subject: on the one hand, the Libault report on addiction, which Jeanine Dubie frequently refers to; On the other hand, the El Khomri report, which, beyond the question of the means to be given to the management of dependency and loss of autonomy, addresses the problem of the training of professionals, their accompaniment and the upgrading of careers. Ms. El Khomri had estimated that, in order to respond to the challenges, it would be necessary to train, over the next few years, about 350,000 paramedics and attendants to practice at the hospital or at home. A few days ago, we created, in a relative discretion, a new branch of social security dedicated to autonomy and endowed with 1 billion euros – we did not get any real information on its financing. This is a first step, and we welcome it, but we know that it will unfortunately not be up to the stakes. On the basis of these findings, the Libertés et Territoires Group can only be sensitive to your proposal for a law, colleagues Alain Bruneel and Pierre Dharréville. Indeed, I do not see how it would be possible to dispense with a multiannual programming law. A hospital cannot discover every year the budget that will be allocated to it! The regional intervention fund is at the discretion of the Director General of the ARS: we will grant 6 million euros here, 2 million there, 3 million there... According to what logic? No one knows. For having had the honour and the chance to follow the work of the Committee on Finance for thirteen years, I can say that in the field of public finances, there are many multiannual programming laws. That the hospital has such a law seems to me the least of all, and this seems all the more necessary since the budget of all branches of social security is more important than the budget of the State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u47	As health policies are a priori part of a multi-year logic, you will have to explain to me, Madam Secretary of State, how you can establish a strategy such as "my health 2022" without multi-year programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u48	Programming's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u49	It should not be an adjustment variable that would be used every year in the PLFSS! If that were the case, this lack of coherence would need to be addressed. There is also the hospital debt case. Of EUR 30 billion in debt, EUR 10 billion should be recovered – even if there has been a paradigm shift: whereas initially it was the state that had to do it, it was learned that in the end it would be the CADES, the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, which would take care of it, established by establishment. But according to what criteria? Who will decide? Objective criteria should be defined so that we can best accompany all hospitals. We would have liked, Mr rapporteur, to have the private institutions included in the bill, because they also carry out public service tasks. In fact, during the crisis of the covid-19, it was necessary to rely on them. I am one of the long-standing advocates of complete decompartmentalisation, even if I then regulate pricing. Nevertheless, I know your fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u50	It's not a fear, it's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u51	In fact, everyone recognizes that the T2A does not work. It is the race to act – and we know how it ends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u52	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u53	The role of SRAs in territorial coordination should also be raised. I invite you to follow the work of the information mission on management and consequences in all its dimensions of the covid -19 coronavirus epidemic: it is clear that, from one place to another, the answers given are not the same; the proof: it was necessary to go out through the big door a director of ARS who had been particularly successful in the Great East! For all these reasons, Jeanine Dubie and I will introduce several amendments aimed at giving your bill a better footing and ensuring that it will not only deal with the public hospital, but also with the EHPADs, the medical-social sector and private institutions, because they form a whole. The patient doesn't care who takes care of him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u54	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u55	I'm finishing, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and Actir ens. groups, as well as on several benches of the GDR group]] Efficacy for the patient and recognition for staff: that's what it takes. One thing is certain: health is not what remains when we have forgotten everything, it is a necessary and fair budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u56	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u57	Five minutes to sum up your entire experience, Mrs. Fiat, it's not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u58	[[Smile]] And that even if Mr. Lecoq would like you to have more time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u59	I encourage those who know what they're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u60	The day before yesterday, hundreds of thousands of people were on the street. After months of strikes and as hospitals have just been under stress, as never before, the caregivers, largely supported by the population, are at the end of their lives. For the past three years, the Government has been deaf to their simple demands: 300 euros of salary increase for paramedics to stop being underpaid, the closure of beds and hospitals, decent working conditions so that they can properly care for patients and residents. Legitimate demands and unarming simplicity, which did not prevent caregivers from being copiously gassed in front of the National Assembly buildings. During the epidemic crisis, without masks, without tests, without hospital beds, we hospital staff were used as cannon flesh. Caregivers and patients are probably the greatest victims of government policy. It is this one which, for three years, has forced the hospital to tighten its belt ever more in order to save 1 billion euros per year. Yet, in his last televised speech, Emmanuel Macron found nothing better than sending flowers. Full of pride and self-satisfaction, he said he was proud of his management of the crisis. How can we be so disconnected from reality? He sent first-line caregivers, home helpers and doctors, without masks, without protections, with garbage bags as superblouses, and he feels proud? As a lot of consolation: medals and always the same ads, spectacular but empty. The Segur of Health, this "great plan", forget, excuse for little, paramedics and health centres. It is primarily used to bring pressure down, but it does not solve fundamental problems. A tip: if you want the pressure to come back, stop feeding it with publicity effects! [[Smile]] [[Smile]] The Secur of Health, you only have that in your mouth! That's your only answer. I imagine the head of Renault's boss, if you had told him, when he came to see you: "Hello, Mr. Renault, what do you want? Money? Wait, we're gonna make a car segur. No, that's not what you offered him: he left with 8 billion euros. And to Air France's boss, did you tell him, "Hello sir, what do you want? Money? Wait, we're going to make an airplane segur." No, he also left with 7 billion euros. Sometimes I regret to call myself Fiat: if I had called myself Renault, we might have gotten 8 billion euros for the EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u61	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u62	About two years ago, in a parliamentary report, I alerted the Ministry of Health about the extremely difficult working conditions of caregivers in EHPAD: they are victims of musculoskeletal disorders and the number of occupational accidents is higher than in the BTP. Dental care and escarre prevention, among other things, cannot be done for lack of time: it plunges residents into sadness and loneliness, and caregivers into depression. Suffering, abuse: how long will these words be associated with our EHPADs and our hospitals? For the past three years, the La France insoumée group has been calling, through amendments, for a moratorium on the closure of beds and the cessation of hospital groups. Over the past three years, we have been calling for the upgrading of care occupations, the recruitment of hospital staff, and a better ratio of caregivers per resident. Over the past three years, we have been calling for better funding from the hospital to cope with the aging population and the increase in chronic diseases. But, on the other hand, it is always the same hollow promises, many announcement effects and austerity that continue. In 20 years, 40% of maternity hospitals have closed; In 15 years, 68,000 hospital beds have been abolished. Over the last few months, the harmful situation of our hospital facilities has clearly been highlighted: at the beginning of the crisis, we had five times fewer beds per capita for resuscitation than the Germans! The dedication of staff has limitations. The GDR Group's bill provides for the development every five years of a programming law for the public hospital and EHPADs. Unlike the Government, which invokes the need for reorganizations to avoid the problem of financing, the Communist Group has identified the real stakes. How many health facilities and medical and social services do we need? What operating and investment costs do these needs entail? How many extra beds and staff are needed? How to upgrade careers? How to train and titularize sufficient numbers of caregivers? So many commitments to make! If you asked yourself these questions, you would be less disconnected from reality. On Monday, you announced that EUR 1 billion for EHPAD would be included in the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. Are you unconscious? Ensuring the minimum ratio of caregivers per resident would require 8 billion euros – and again, without raising wages! [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] All of us here hope to avoid a second epidemic wave, but nothing is less secure. And you announce us with drum and trumpet 1 billion euros for 2021? Not only is it not enough, but it is unforeseeable. If a second wave arrives tomorrow, what are you going to say? That we couldn't predict it? One can hear that one could not have known the outbreak of the health crisis, but if a second wave arrives, this time one will be entitled to blame you for not having planned anything and for not having done anything for the EHPADs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u63	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u64	What a number!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u65	Assume!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u66	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u67	The health crisis that we are emerging from has shed new light on the difficulties faced by hospital staff. These difficulties are not limited to low wages or lack of human resources; they relate to the organization, the attractiveness of the profession, the mere recognition of the work accomplished; They are global and long-term. That is why the bill tabled by the Left Democratic and Republican Group is one of the answers to the crisis. It deserves time because, unlike all the post-crisis texts discussed so far in the House, it is not a hot reaction and it is not an honour. Rather, it calls for real reflection on our health care system and its funding. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the GDR group]] By addressing the issues of reorganization, recruitment and training beyond the issues of salary revalorization and status, it provides part of the response to the demands of caregivers. Taking into account the resources of EHPADs in thinking about hospital funding also allows us to prepare ourselves for the challenge of the old age and the needs of our elders, therefore for our own needs. That is why the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will vote in favour of the text. We need structural texts that seek to reshape the health system as a whole. This is what our caregivers are demanding, not medals – the caregivers at the Alès-Cévennes hospital have sent the President of the Republic a symbolic medal. Short-term measures or lingering directions that only lead to the weakening of the public hospital must be stopped. Our health care system needs something else. The proposed law is criticized for not mentioning the necessary articulation between the public and private sectors and not waiting for the conclusions of the Secur de la Santé. But what do we know about the progress of the negotiations? What place is left to the legislator? What place for the long term, for a global vision of the future of the public hospital? Ségur, always Segur: it has become the alpha and omega of our health care system. How could it be otherwise when expectations had been so high for so many years? The health crisis, to which the carers paid a heavy price, nevertheless gave rise to a double hope in their home: that of finally being listened to and that a new direction be given to the public hospital. That's not how they feel anymore. As a result, the consultation process was undermined from the outset by the fact that paramedics and caregivers were less well represented than administrative staff; the meetings of forty speakers, in which discussion is impossible, followed; There is a lack of transparency in the conduct of the work; and on the issue of remuneration and hiring, things are unclear. As a result, the caregivers beat the pavement the day before yesterday to remind them of their expectations and needs. So, is the bill coming too soon? Should we wait for the results of the consultation? Caregivers don't think so, and neither do we. This text does not merely open up avenues for reflection; it provides a sensible framework, if not exhaustive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u69	[[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] For the umpteenth time, ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the caregivers. They have "key-in-hand" measures to propose to us. They don't take them out of their hats: they've been thinking about it for years. And when a bill translates their proposals, as Mr Bruneel does, we must give him a favourable reception, even if the text is incomplete and does not address all aspects of the problem. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] I do not know whether pessimism is in the air of time or whether it is in the national DNA that we must reject everything, but it would be a shame if we did not seize the opportunity offered by this bill to set concrete guidelines for the health system and to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u70	Bravo! Parliament must listen to the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u71	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u72	The French hospital is a hospital of excellence: state-of-the-art techniques, innovative treatments, extremely well-trained personnel... Many of us have had the opportunity to receive very sophisticated care. Even yesterday, their ability to adapt to the coronavirus crisis was remarkable. However, French hospitals are in crisis – we can all see this again, in particular by exchanging with agents, caregivers or not. Impaired organization, low-attractive careers, insufficient or poorly allocated means: there are many reasons to worry. Similarly, in the EHPADs, we all know fabulous teams that come in four to accompany the elderly, offering them multiple activities, maintaining the link with the families, accompanying them with humanity and benevolence. Unfortunately, we have all had the wind of settlements where the covid-19 has wreaked havoc, where residents are slipping, in unbearable isolation. The coronavirus epidemic and its consequences have only dramatically confirmed this fact: everywhere, our health care system struggles to accommodate patients. It is so fragile that accompanying measures will not suffice. A system that, despite the immense quality of professionals, is breathless must be completely rethought through a comprehensive and long-term plan. If the balance sheet is cloudy, we all agree that we need to reform the hospital and think about EHPADs differently. In fact, two very heavy and necessary projects have been opened by the Government in the framework of the Segur de la Santé, where consultations are increasing, and preparatory work for the draft law on old age and autonomy. The bill we are looking at today aims to reform the hospital and the EHPADs by providing for an improvement in indices, wages and careers and setting targets for job creation and beds. While we all share the ambition to reform the hospital and the medical-social institutions, our views differ on the actions to be taken. It is not a question of denying the need to give important resources to the health of the French and to the support of the most fragile, but the answer given by this bill is only partial, and sometimes even partial. The President of the Republic announced in Mulhouse a massive plan to invest and upgrade all careers, stating that the answer would be "deep and lasting". We will indeed have to rethink the hospital, not only in terms of the means to be given to it, but also as a link in our health system. Interactions between all health actors will need to be strengthened, but also rethought. Everyone's role will have to be clarified, and this will necessarily lead to major changes, both in practices and in our care consumer habits. We will also have to reassess our relationship to risk, anticipation and the precautionary principle, rethink the articulation between the public and private sectors, and ensure that all acts are useful and non-duplicative, as they sometimes are. We will need to work on the governance of these institutions, for greater efficiency and competence. Finally, it will be necessary to develop prevention policies, which will have to go through different lines of communication and target several actors in order for everyone to act in their area of competence. The list I have just made may not be exhaustive, but it does underline the need for broad consultation and very broad action. The title of the bill is promising, but its content is a little less so. To the incantation of the "more and more", it is necessary, not to substitute, but to add the "do better",...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u73	"Doing better" is actually doing less!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u74	...which takes a little time and, above all, method. I am thinking of broad-based consultations such as those that presided over the Libault report on the issue of old age or those that are currently taking place within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. Yes, we need to focus on long-term plans, not a succession of measures that look more like roughness than effective reforms. Yes, there is a need to reform the health care system in France. Yes, attention must be paid to EHPAD and other residences for the elderly as well as to the medical and social sector, not to mention the field of disability. But let's do it methodically, quickly, but without haste. We owe it to the caregivers we applauded, and we owe it to the French. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mr. Olivier Damaisin also applauds]] While welcoming your strong involvement on this subject for a long time, the rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party, will abstain from voting on this bill, because if we agree with its purpose, the method does not give us full satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u75	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u76	I now call the single article of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u77	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u78	During the general discussion, several colleagues regretted that private institutions involved in a public health service mission were not included in Mr Bruneel's bill. With this amendment, we therefore propose to add, in paragraph 2, after the words "public health facilities", the words "and private health facilities of collective interest", ESPICs. Similarly, in paragraph 3 on EHPAD, mention should be made, in addition to public institutions, of private non-profit institutions which participate in the reception of dependent elderly persons. In other words, our amendment aims to include the private not-for-profit sector in the scope of Mr Bruneel's bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u79	Mr Alain Bruneel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u80	Thank you, dear colleague, for this amendment, which aims to extend the scope of the bill, which is now limited to public institutions, to private non-profit institutions. Although our group's DNA leads us to defend the public hospital, we believe that all institutions play an important role in health, especially in the most remote areas. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As I will repeat earlier, I always leave this great idea: public hospital and health do not belong to any political party. We have tabled a bill, on which I know we will not all agree. However, we are ready to set foot on the first step to try to continue together. That is why we accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u82	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the scope of the bill to the private sector, and in particular to the private not-for-profit sector. Since we are opposed to the bill, we will in principle give an unfavorable opinion to all the amendments. I would like to take this opportunity to point out to Mr Vigier that, as far as the public sector is concerned, we have already planned a multiannual programme which we have been implementing since February.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u83	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1 and 2, which can be presented together. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u84	In your bill, Mr. Rapporteur, you have used the phrase "responsibility for loss of autonomy". However, I had the opportunity to explain, during the examination of the ordinary and organic bills on social debt and autonomy, that we should not speak of "taking over the loss of autonomy", because that expression does not make much sense. I therefore propose that these words be replaced by "aid for autonomy" or, even better, by "support for autonomy", since this is the wording we adopted in the two texts discussed a few days ago and which constitute the beginnings of a fifth branch of social security dedicated to support for autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u85	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u86	These amendments relate to form. We fully agree that aid for autonomy is linked to the notions of respect for the human person, respect for the elderly. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u88	Disadvantaged, although the proposed amendments correspond in fact to the terminology used in the ordinary and organic bills on social debt and autonomy adopted on Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u89	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u90	I do not want to prolong the debate, but I find it a pity that we are not making further progress on this bill. The hospital, or rather, more broadly, health needs a multi-year programming law. While Mr Bruneel's text concerns only the public sector and does not take into account all those involved in a public service mission, our rapporteur has accepted the amendments tabled by the Libertés et Territoires Group: the latter will therefore vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u91	Thank you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u92	In the explanations of vote on the single article, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u93	The text we have just discussed must be adopted. The public hospital must be managed by anticipating budgets and changing software. Stop the budget obsession! The suffering of hospital staff, which I heard last Tuesday in Le Havre, reached a peak today with the crisis of the covid-19. Many have set aside their demands to save lives and help control this terrible epidemic as much as possible. Yet their dignity has been flouted by the lack of masks, gloves, overblouses and resuscitation beds. Nothing has been done to facilitate the work of caregivers. Nothing has been anticipated, because anticipation and prevention have a cost that the State has refused to bear. You want to applaud them and give them medals, but you have to stop everything and put the human back at the heart of hospital politics – the human who cares and the human who gets cared for. A better framework for a better care setting. This will not be done by reorganizing hospitals; What is needed is to give them more resources. This will not be done either by managing beds as one manages any product on a production line at the chain. Putting people back at the heart of hospital politics is also putting listening back at the centre of the choices you make. The Sécur de la santé will only give birth to one more measure if you do not take the time to hear the suffering, anger and difficulties of the daily lives of these caregivers and hospital staff, and if you do not legislate to put an end to them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Austerity kills and killed again during the crisis of the Covid-19. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law of the Communist deputies providing for a large investment plan over several years and aimed at putting a large number of totems down is more than useful: it is salutary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u94	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u95	As my colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille pointed out earlier, the problem with this bill is that if it deals with the public hospital, it certainly needs to be done, at no time is it about public health. This is a matter of concern, as the hospital cannot be thought of independently of public health and prevention. However, prevention is at the heart of our current thinking on autonomy and is one of the strong axes of the Ségur de la santé. On the other hand, you said you were ready, Mr Bruneel, to extend the scope of your bill to private non-profit institutions, as Mrs Dubie proposed through her amendment. However, the hospital must be thought of in all its dimensions, including the public, private and private not-for-profit sectors. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not be able to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u96	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u97	As I mentioned earlier in the general discussion, the Socialist and Related Group supports this bill in favour of a programming law for the public hospital and accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people. We are doing so for reasons of form, of course, because such programming would allow the State to make commitments that would survive political alternations. It would also provide an opportunity for our citizens to link their contributions to the quality of the public service they receive. The crisis that our country has just been through teaches us at least one thing: nothing can be the same as before. We must, on every bench, show great humility, think about learning from our shortcomings and, above all, provide a lasting response, at the height of the stakes. As has been pointed out many times, our caregivers cannot be content with applause, medals or bonuses for any account. Our recognition must meet much greater demands. However, these requirements – in terms of personnel, organisation or investment – are reflected in this bill. They are in line with, or complement, the proposals of the Socialist and Related Group. Of course, we will support them. I will conclude my remarks by referring to the territorial issues. We rural people must have the same public health rights as other citizens. However, territorial equality between health services cannot be achieved through T2A and requires extensive cooperation between city medicine and hospital medicine, the public and private sectors. Health is also autonomy; So think of our helpers of life, so forgotten and despised. A public pole of autonomy – called for by our colleague Pierre Dharréville – is, I believe, an emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We would be well advised to pass this bill so that we can continue to finish our New Year's vows by looking at our citizens right in the eye when we wish them good health. Words are good; It's better to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u98	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u99	As I have said, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this bill, firstly because the rapporteur has agreed to extend it to the private non-profit sector, which concludes the debate on the inclusion of the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u100	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u101	By adopting Amendment No 3, we could indeed have incorporated both ESPIC and EHPAD from the private non-profit sector into the scheme. The second reason for our vote in favour is that, although it has often been stressed that a more comprehensive vision should be adopted and the links between city medicine and the hospital strengthened, the adoption of a hospital programming law would not prevent a second step towards a redefinition of health policy throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] In fact, some participants in the Ségur de la santé felt that the reflection undertaken in this context was too focused on the hospital, not sufficiently open to the outside world, and that it did not take sufficient account of all professionals, particularly those in the home care sector. So I think the argument is a little short.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u104	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u105	Mr rapporteur, it is with pleasure, honestly, that we would have adopted your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u106	Well, do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u107	Do yourself a favor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u108	Indeed, she had a very good feeling. Nevertheless, as I tell you clearly, we were disappointed. This is actually a planning exercise that takes only the public sector into account. However, a programming law cannot ignore other actors. If we believe, like you, that public hospital and public EHPAD should be the backbone of health policy and autonomy and that public sector leadership should be entrusted, we believe it is important to recognize the place and role of everyone: public and private institutions, city medicine, health and social medicine. Policies should be developed that promote cooperation, such as those that emerged during the health crisis. That is what is envisaged by the "My Health 2022" strategy, which, contrary to what you say in the explanatory memorandum, remains relevant. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group will therefore not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u109	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u110	I forgot to make that clear in the general discussion, but the La France insoumise group will vote for the bill. Indeed, we need to know the number of health facilities, the number of social and medical-social establishments and the number of beds needed; we need to know the amount of operating and capital expenditure to be programmed and the staff to be recruited; We need to know how we will improve careers, titularize and train caregivers in sufficient numbers. We need all of this! [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] We have all heard the testimonies of those who have experienced the health crisis; We have seen the disaster she created for the caregivers, as well as for the home helpers, who only wanted to go to work. We saw that nothing had been organized, that nothing was ready. The GDR Group proposes that you anticipate things by drawing up a programming law, in order to keep us ready in case something happens, and you tell us that you don't want to plan? Well, in that case, don't plan, but don't come complaining when there's a crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u111	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u112	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u113	I take this opportunity to congratulate Alain Bruneel once again on his field and census work. I'm happy to recognize the merit of this. I will not argue that I am opposed to a multi-year vision, since you have heard me defend this vision on several occasions when considering social security funding bills, both on the hospital side and on the drug side. As such, the reflection raised by this bill is relevant. However, we cannot overlook the fact that consultations are under way. We talked about Segur of Health,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u114	Do you know how this is going?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u115	...and the Libault report. We look forward to the next bill on the financing of social security. We know that answers will be given in the direction of a multi-year vision, and we will be able to be demanding in this respect. Therefore, as I said in the general discussion, the Group of the European People's Party will abstain from voting on this text, while keeping in mind the quality of the work done, which may be useful when considering future texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u116	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u117	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u118	First of all, we can welcome this debate, which bears witness to the long road ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u120	[[Smile]] This, with the walkers, is sure that there will always be a way to go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u121	I would like to thank the groups that have trusted us and have approved this bill. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for her comments on the commitment of the Communist Group to health, particularly in the context of the French Health Tour which he has carried out. If we agree on the observation without changing a comma, we do not take the same path to reach the goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u122	You mustn't take the one on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u123	That is regrettable. I said, we are not competing with the Segur of Health; We believe that there is a need for a change of method. It is not necessary to develop the FSLP, then look at the available budget envelope, we must do the opposite: we must first define the needs of caregivers until 31 December of the year, for five consecutive years. In addition, the caregivers demonstrated on June 16 to express their disagreement and request that their needs be met. They have said so forcefully, and their movement is united: all the unions, all the collectives, all the associations have called to protest! This means that everyone has chosen not to highlight their own ideals, but to work with others. For your part, you have told us everything that is missing in this bill, but, apart from the Libertés et territoires group, no one has proposed to amend the text! However, amendments could have helped to improve it; proof of this is that we accepted, after discussion, those that had been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u124	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, LT and EDS groups]] Let's go to the question of the public hospital. Who tasted the most in twenty-five years? The public hospital! Where were the 100,000 beds that were closed? In the public sector! Where were two thirds of the maternity wards closed? In the public sector! Where is the lowest number of staff? In the public sector!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u126	And who closed those beds?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u127	I do not accuse anyone in particular, dear colleague. I simply note that in twenty-five years it was the public hospital that suffered the most. There is no revalorisation of wages. There it is, the observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u128	There aren't enough beds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u129	There's nothing left!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u130	It's time to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u131	So I'm saying it was the public hospital that suffered the most. This is what caregivers say: they demand immediate solutions. And I don't think, even if we can always hope, that the Segur of Health will provide it. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you know what is happening in public institutions, hospitals and EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u132	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u133	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] You know the suffering, the lack of resources and the lack of materials. You also know that what the health care staff wants is the amount of salary adjustments, the number of people who will benefit from them, and the budget envelope for the equipment. The President of the Republic spoke, but he did not say how many billions would be put on the table! We don't know the amount of that amount, and it's serious. I repeat: public hospital and health do not belong to any political party. They are a common good, to which we have a responsibility, all of us who sit in this House. This responsibility would mean that we put our own ideals and sensitivities aside from time to time. If we had all agreed, the Government would have drafted a programming law, which we could then have enriched and improved. We would have taken a step forward in trying to meet the needs expressed. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. I am telling you frankly, I find this regrettable. I hope that we will not have to take up this proposal in forty months, as was the case with André Chassaigne. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] I believe that we are lacking in doing something great, which we could all have accomplished together by disagreeing on certain points, but agree on the essential: to respond immediately to the needs of caregivers – and that is the only thing that should have counted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u134	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u135	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u136	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Marie-George Buffet and others, calling on the Government to set up a student income (point 2751).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u137	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u138	Last week, the volunteers at the Resto du cœur de Stains told me, beyond an extremely worrying general context, about the sharp increase in the number of students, in particular the universities of Saint-Denis and Villetanuse, coming to ask for food aid, while solidarity gatherings are already organized within the institutions themselves. These are thousands of young people across France who contact associations or rely on free meals from the CROUS – the regional centre for academic and school works – to feed themselves. At the beginning of the crisis, the Government released 10 million emergency loans and this month began the payment of €200 in aid for those who lost their jobs or internships, as well as for ultramarine students in metropolitan France, far from their families. This emergency aid is welcome, but it remains ad hoc and of a very modest amount. I recall that young people under the age of 25 are not entitled to the RSA – active solidarity income – and do not have safety nets that protect other categories of the population. Without being able to build an effective system of upstream solidarity, public authorities need associations to enable students to live properly. It is a raw light that is thus cast on the precariousness in which those who are the future of our country live. She stressed the importance of a structural response. A structural response is the ambition of this motion for a resolution. It is intended as the starting point for work involving the Parliament, the Government and youth associations and unions, aimed at creating a student income that is geared to the specific situation of each young person. Two main axes guide this work on student income, sometimes called "student salary": first, to respond to a material emergency; Second, to recognize the student's social and salary work and future production. It is therefore first of all a question of responding to a material emergency. Student precariousness was unbearable even before the current crisis, and the crisis accentuated it – this motion for a resolution was drafted before confinement. Among students, 20.8 per cent live below the poverty line. Their average income is 837 euros – 737 euros if they come from the working class. Thirty per cent of students drop out of medical care or examinations. 46% of them work next door – 19% more than half-time – and 54% say they have no other choice to support themselves. The impact on their studies is indisputable. In its study on the impact of paid work on the success and continuation of studies, INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economics – clearly states that if they did not work, the probability for paid students to pass their year would be 43 points higher. The current aid system, in particular the CROUS grants, does not provide lasting solutions for all these young people. While 38 per cent of them receive grants, the low amounts, threshold effects and inadequate consideration of particular situations do not allow these grants to be fully effective. Family solidarity alone cannot fill these gaps, with 31% of students not receiving assistance from their families. While student employment, which often competes with education, was already a problem before the crisis, it is all the more so today when we measure the precariousness of these so-called student jobs. Do not fight against forced wage earners is to accept, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of these young people who, having lost their jobs as a result of confinement, are now turning to charitable associations. The payment, subject to compliance with school obligations, of a fixed sum enabling each student to live in dignity and to devote himself to his studies is indispensable. This payment would respond to a logic other than that of the scholarships: it would recognize the work provided by the student. A social status of the student is to be defined, even if it is not part of the classical wage earner, within the mechanisms of production. I therefore propose that student work be formally recognised as a process of both technical and social qualification, with the right to remuneration. Far from being new, this idea is constitutive of student unionism. The charter of Grenoble of 1946, which is the basis of it, explicitly recognizes the status of a worker to a young student. Article 4 provides that, as a worker, the student has the right to work and rest in the best conditions and material independence. Since then, the assertion that the student is a worker continues to irrigate the demands of many youth organizations, who claim an autonomy allowance or a student income or salary. A student who provides work that produces present and future value does so without providing him or her with remuneration. Some will receive support depending on their family situation, others will not be eligible for scholarships, but none will receive money as a student. Moreover, when the student works for remuneration in the course of his studies, whether on probation or on alternance, he usually receives remuneration well below the SMIC, which is a form of double punishment since he is never recognized as a full and complete status because of his work. The question of income is also an entry point in a broader reflection on the valuation of work done outside the traditional patterns of production. This issue has long been known about domestic tasks and the dual day of women or family caregivers. These are questions that we are debating in this Chamber: how can we better recognise and support the different forms of work? For young students, student income is a solution for the future. Beyond the status, an income linked to the individual situation of the students, independent of the income of their families, would improve equality of opportunity and reduce the determinism linked to the differences in economic and cultural capital, which has been repeatedly demonstrated. Student income will not put all students on an equal footing, it is obvious, but it will provide everyone with the financial margins necessary to support themselves independently and to devote themselves to their work, that is, to their studies. If this resolution specifically concerns students, it is the whole of youth that must be our priority and be the subject of strong and innovative measures. The under-25s, whether in apprenticeship, training, employment or job search, have specific needs, but all aspire to emancipation: this is what we need to mobilize our energy. This text participates. It is in this same spirit that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has proposed to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the consequences of the current crisis for young people, and that, alongside the youth organisations, we await the guidelines that will be taken on the universal income of activity – RUA. Some colleagues will probably refer to the RUA to defend our proposal! Last year, on the day reserved for our group, while I was defending the end of taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities, I was told that the forthcoming arrival of the RUA would solve the situation. The RUA, however, was not the solution. The text in question ended up being voted on, including by the majority, some time later! Beware of believing that the RUA, a simple merger of pre-existing aids, will allow students to be accompanied. Above all, it responds to a logic different from the one we propose. Student income is not a budget utopia: while about €6 billion is spent annually on scholarships, it would require an additional budget of €10 billion. It is not up to me or my political group to decide how much it is, how it is paid, how it is financed and how it relates to other student income: it is up to all political groups, with the Government, student unions, youth organisations, CROUS and universities. We have to start this important project. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If you share the observation that the current system is incapable of responding to student insecurity, if you think that students produce value, present and future, through the work they provide, then vote our motion for a resolution! We offer you a collective invitation to work on a strong, ambitious measure that is not unrealistic but simply requires political will. The context is conducive to innovation, rethinking models of solidarity and redefining our priorities. Youth is one. Let's make her self-governing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u139	From the height of sight, bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u140	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u141	To offer all young people the opportunity to conduct studies in good conditions, to recognize the value of their investment and the time they devote to it: this ambition, we share it. Already, we are acting to improve the sometimes precarious situation of students. This is a major focus of action that we have been conducting since 2017. Our goal is clear: to accompany as many students as possible in the success of their project of study and professional integration. A broad reflection has been made in this direction since the beginning of the legislature. It gave rise to the student plan and, as of March 2018, to the law on the guidance and success of students, the first objective of which is to improve the success of these young people, regardless of their career and aspirations. The more you know where you're going and what you're doing, the less time and money you're wasting on extending your studies, at the risk of getting lost! This law contributes to the fight against the high rate of licensing failure, and enshrines the importance of guidance. It also reflects a significant investment in student life. A few figures attest to this: the abolition of students' social security contributions increased their purchasing power by 100 euros; 4000 student housing units are renovated each year, and 176000 places are available in CROUS. This investment is also reflected in scholarships, which benefit 38% of students. Of course, we would like them to be higher, and we are working to ensure that they can respond as accurately as possible to the situations that students are experiencing. Many schemes and allowances therefore help students during this crucial period of existence. I commend the Government's efforts towards students during the covid-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u142	Very late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u143	It is already reflected in the amending finance bill – PLFR – which was introduced last week. For example, €75 million will be used to finance emergency aid for vulnerable young people who have lost a rewarding internship or paid employment as a result of the health crisis. Nearly 400,000 students received exceptional assistance of 200 euros in June, and the payment of scholarships was extended in July. In total, the next PLFR will provide an additional €150 million to students. But this is only part of the answer. We share the observation of student insecurity and have demonstrated our willingness to accompany young people, and even to go further. On the other hand, Mrs Buffet, we do not share the method that you recommend to reduce the precariousness of students, and above all to prepare for the future. We see three reasons to deepen the reflection beyond your proposal: first, a student income could create new inequalities; Second, it should be extended beyond the students; thirdly, this financial provision can only be a part of the quality accompaniment due to students. The first point, therefore, is that a student income should be paid "to any person enrolled in a higher education course". The assistance a student may receive from his or her family would therefore not be taken into account. Is such widespread attribution not likely to create inequalities or widen existing inequalities? The grants seem to us to be more appropriate, even if they deserve more personalized follow-up. Similarly, we could reflect on a more generous and fairer lending policy that takes into account the situation of young people upon graduation from school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u144	You have to pay them back for the loans!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u145	It's the American system, and it's going to lead to a crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u146	Secondly, limiting this income to students alone is a lack of ambition: why not extend it to all young people, such as a universal income of activity or a citizen base, in order to respond to the extremely different situations that young people between the ages of 18 and 25 are experiencing? We cannot limit ourselves to the fight against the precariousness of students, we must fight against the precariousness of young people as a whole. The Government and the majority are fully convinced of the need for a more comprehensive view of these issues. Finally, and this is probably the most important point for me, if financial aid is welcome, it cannot hide a need for more comprehensive support. Guidance and support must be given in-depth work to ensure that young people move to areas that they like and recruit, so that they thrive in their profession. They must be given opportunities and encouraged to take risks. Studies must remain or become an immense opportunity, thanks to which everyone can find their place in society. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, we share your diagnosis, but not the unique solution that you advocate to reduce the precariousness of students and recognize their value. That is why the La République en Marche Group will not vote in favour of your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u147	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u148	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u149	We are all concerned about the future of our youth, and your proposal strongly reminds us of it – this is its first virtue. Muriel Pénicaud, Bruno Le Maire and Gabriel Attal are working on a global plan for young people, which will be presented before the summer. Your motion for a resolution is a useful addition to the debate that we owe to young people, and in particular to students, whose economic and also professional precariousness, if not, sometimes existential, is unfortunately reinforced by the crisis. We have to act, it's obvious. We must also show boldness, audacity of history, the kind of audacity that we usually lend to youth – of which we are no longer really, but no matter: as Jean Cocteau said, boldness is formed on the margins of the daring, and we find bold a man who prolongs an old audacity! It is indeed an old audacity that you prolong with this proposal of student income, after the MP Henri Wallon, who submitted this idea in 1947. As you rightly recall, there is a certain nostalgia in this resolution. I share with you two convictions. I am convinced, therefore, that action must now be taken. As in 1945, we face a historic challenge of national reconstruction, and must show equally historic audacity in the area of solidarity and the fight against poverty, especially among young people and students. Like you too, I am convinced that we must rethink how our society enables everyone to be an active citizen and to see its contribution to living together recognized to its worth. Students learn, train, work, volunteer, sometimes campaign. A student life, when made possible by a minimum of material means, is a full life, rich in multiple activities, all of which create economic, human, ecological and civic value. Students bring a lot to the pot of living together, but in return, are they fairly recognized or even paid? Like you, I don't think so. This raises, beyond students, the question of recognizing the active engagement of everyone in society. But is student income the solution? I don't believe it. To justify myself, I will not put forward budgetary arguments as a good pupil of the majority: I will not therefore tell you that the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth or the increase in employer contributions are unsatisfactory or insufficient solutions. After all, it is a motion for a resolution, not a bill! I will therefore prefer boldness and let the turbulent child answer in me, if you will allow me to paraphrase the famous work of Henri Wallon, who was not only a great communist, but also a great psychologist, founder of the psychology of the youngest. If I do not believe in student income, it is because I do not believe in the misleading ease of categories: I prefer to them the complexity of individuals. I don't trust public policies that serve French categories or, worse, political clienteles. The country needs unity, and we need to talk to all the French. We must make them vibrate a common destiny, while giving them control over their individual destiny – beyond the communities of belonging, including age. The new solidarity that we must build at the end of the crisis must be universal and national. If I don't believe in student income, it's because I don't think only young people need an emancipation income. Emancipation is the business of a life: it can start at 70! Our responsibility is to give every Frenchman, whatever his age, the freedom to make his way into society, to be protected in the event of shock and to always bounce back, to undertake his life tirelessly and become who he is. That is my audacity: I do not want to give a few years of hope to students, I want to give a sustainable horizon of destiny to all the men and women of our country! If I don't believe in student income, it's just because I believe in universal income. That's why I am addressing you today a no, with a certain audacity, asking you to give me a yes tomorrow,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u150	No, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u151	[[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] ... when the group Take Together will propose a universal income for each Frenchman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u152	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u153	On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I would like to thank you, Mrs Buffet, for drawing up this motion for a resolution and for presenting a topical subject for discussion more than ever. At a time when hundreds of thousands of students, sometimes already precarious, have been further weakened by confinement and the economic crisis, national representation has all the legitimacy to debate it. To a large extent, the release of material concerns from daily life is one of the keys to the success of studies, as you have pointed out perfectly. That is why I also want to stress how much this republican ambition – that as such we all share – has allowed higher education to be open to as many people as possible in our country. This was made possible by the commitment of all Republicans immediately after the war. This majority has itself been part of this movement. For example, one of the very first texts discussed during this mandate, the Student Orientation and Success Act, dealt, among other things, with the construction of new housing – an extensive investment plan is under way – the reduction of registration fees, the attachment of new students to the general social security system or the abolition of the social contribution as early as 2018. The crisis, however, requires us to imagine new responses to new situations, such as the one you are proposing this afternoon. Several emergency measures have been taken, which is the least of all. I will mention the exceptional assistance of the State of 200 euros, which you mentioned, paid to 800,000 students, in particular to compensate in part for the loss of employment or internship, the maintenance of the CROUS scholarships, and, for this summer, the freezing of the rents of student residences, food and computer vouchers as well as multiple aids provided by the higher education institutions themselves. The context has thus highlighted the difficulties that we all face, as well as the support and solidarity that we are all capable of in exceptional circumstances. You thus propose the creation of a student income, taking up in this the proposal made at the end of the war by various groups of the National Assembly. Who in this House can stand up against this impulse of the heart? Who would want to oppose this intention of great generosity? Political responsibility, however, obliges us, beyond the spirit, to consider means and objectives. That is where your resolution finds its limits. It does not indicate the purpose you intend to give to this income, which should have been the starting point of our reflection. As a result, it also does not sever its scope. Does student income aim at equality? In this case we should instead consider strengthening or even expanding the stock exchange system. We could also think of an extension of the RSA before the age of 25, for example. Is student income aimed at emancipation? In this case, it must be universal and not linked only to the specific situation of the students. Your resolution offers an income for anyone enrolled in higher education. Given the very relevant fact that you have drawn up, it therefore does not touch the heart of the target you are talking about, the precarious students, and is not a measure of justice, as Céline Calvez explained. We believe that an indistinct income is not the preferred solution: we believe much more in improving the public service provided to students, in addition to improving the various aids that target the most fragile. Finally, I find you tiring on the essential issue of funding, which you simply do not address.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u155	Not enough, anyway! While the original proposal had been rejected because of the same pitfall, you are renewing the experience by proposing an ambitious measure but leaving it to others that you are dealing with the issue of funding. The foundations are not sufficiently established so that we can all commit ourselves here. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] While welcoming your generous idea, the MODEM Group cannot follow you and will therefore not vote for this resolution because of its too weak technical and financial base. On the other hand, I heard earlier the ambitious proposal of our colleague from Agir together. Throughout the coming year, we will help to nourish the reflection that will lead to a generous measure, a heart momentum that responds in a much more focused way to the needs that you have identified very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u156	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u157	All indicators attest to this, the living conditions of the students are deteriorating. Nearly half of them now have to work in parallel with their studies to cope with the rising cost of housing and student life, and one in five is below the poverty line. This precariousness was particularly accentuated by the crisis of the covid-19. Some students have been confronted with the inability to support their most basic needs in the face of rising current expenditure. Others have remained confined to sometimes unhealthy housing. This impoverishment, which has been denounced for many years by student unions and sociologists, does not come from anywhere. First, higher education and labour market reforms have been the driving force behind rising inequalities and poverty. On the other hand, successively in power governments have reduced the amount of public funds allocated to CROUS and higher institutions. Moreover, since 2017, personalized housing subsidies have been constantly being revised downwards – a disengagement from the state that has led students to follow the path of resourcefulness and precarious jobs, and to be particularly exposed to psychosocial risks. Despite the warnings and student mobilizations, notably in November 2019, during the immolation of a young Lyon student, the state never took this problem with its hands. With La France insoumée, however, in 2017 we proposed the introduction of an autonomy allowance of 800 euros per month for young people between 18 and 25 years of age, for a period of three years, with the aim of guaranteeing, for students in particular, decent living conditions. During the health crisis, together with the Member of Parliament, Muriel Ressiguier, we drew up, on the basis of the thematic booklet on youth, a series of emergency measures which could provide a response to this economic insecurity in the short and medium term. We requested, among other things, the extension of scholarships during the two summer months and the immediate freezing of rent payments for university students. But faced with the consequences of its own policy, the Government has not taken our proposals into consideration. During the health crisis, it merely granted one-off and insufficient assistance of 200 euros to less than half of the students. Many young people are now at risk of paying the high price of the health crisis and this inaction. The future economic recession does not in fact augur well for the future of the most precarious. Already, the summer period will be particularly difficult to find an internship, a first job or a food job. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This context requires us to work urgently on the construction of a new student social protection. For this reason, I will vote with the La France group in favour of the draft resolution calling on the Government to establish a student income. The Government must give the means of material independence to those who, once graduated, will build the future of our country. In addition, the student income proposed by the communist group partly supports our proposals. This resolution refers us to a common political struggle: the emancipation of youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u158	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u159	This motion for a resolution deals with a very important problem, as has been pointed out by previous speakers: student precariousness. In our country, too many students are facing financial difficulties; Some refuse to take care of themselves or fail to pursue their studies. From one student to another, the conditions are not the same: one has to work, the other does not. This, of course, depends on the family structure and the income level of the parents. To solve this problem, you propose to introduce a generalised income. What shockes us is precisely this idea of generalization. While the allocation of such income to the most vulnerable and middle-class students seems self-evident, we do not understand why children from well-off families should also benefit from it. We believe that more needs to be done to review our scholarship system. Many countries, mainly Nordic countries, have much more efficient systems than ours. It is necessary to review the conditions for awarding scholarships on social criteria and merit grants to enable new families to obtain them. Too often, our fellow citizens explain to us that they may pay taxes all year round, when their children go to school and ask for a scholarship, they are still above the threshold! We would therefore rather like to work on issues such as easing the criteria, leaving more room for individualisation. We find another reason to be wary of generalization in our ultramarine friends. Our group consists of two members from New Caledonia, where the criteria for awarding scholarships are the same as in metropolitan France. Families do not have access to it because income is higher in New Caledonia – but life is also much more expensive! Rather than making the choice of a general income, we would therefore like to take the opportunity of this discussion on the possibilities of supporting students to put our scholarship system to a standstill. This is essential because, as I said, we are very late compared to other countries. There is no reason why some students from less well-off families may not be able to pursue their studies. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The IDU and independent group will not vote for this resolution, but we recognise the importance of the problem, which will have to be addressed again in the coming months, but with a place for individualisation. Students who work and try to continue their studies in our country deserve more support, both in terms of housing and in terms of access to health or the ability to study on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u160	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u161	We must do everything to ensure that our youth is not a sacrificed generation. The President of the Republic announced last Sunday a massive investment in education, training and youth jobs. But, behind the announcement effects, these announcements must be quickly followed up. Since March, young people have been among the most affected by the devastating economic and social consequences of the health crisis. I am thinking in particular of the students who have seen their internship abolished, postponed or disturbed, those who have experienced the worst difficulties in finding alternations, those who have not been able to continue their student work or who will not find a summer job to finance their studies. As we know, almost half of them are forced to work while studying, despite the higher risk of school failure. Even before confinement, almost 20 per cent of students already lived below the poverty line and almost 40 per cent of them depended on at least financial assistance. The financial difficulties of the students have worsened with the containment and the consequences of the health crisis. Despite the aid granted by the CROUS and despite spontaneous associative initiatives, some find themselves in extremely precarious situations. In addition to these financial difficulties, there have been difficulties in accessing digital tools, i.e. information and courses, as well as psychological difficulties, especially for some students who have not been able to return to their families. In this context, the Libertés et Territoires Group can only share the GDR Group's findings and concerns. We have also repeatedly called upon the Government to address the situation of students, particularly during confinement. We agree with you about the need to find devices not to let the younger ones sink into precariousness. However, we question the introduction of a universal income for all students. On the one hand, it seems to us that if we really want to guarantee equal opportunities with a view to social justice, then it is essential to take into account the family situation of the students. On the other hand, we consider that, more than ever, the situation of young people between the ages of 18 and 25 must be dealt with in a broader way, because beyond the students, it is a whole generation that sees its chances of continuing their studies calmly and finding a job. The Government had referred to the establishment of a universal income for young people aged 18 to 25. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of this mechanism? Will he ever be introduced to us? If so, on what date? And above all, will he be able to benefit the younger ones? Today's youth is bathed in an ocean of uncertainty and anxiety. Of course, the Government is beginning to provide answers. The plan for learning is one. The time to seek an alternation has increased to six months – but I would have liked it to be longer. I had tabled an amendment to that effect to the Emergency Provisions Bill to extend the duration of registration in an apprentice training centre to twelve months. It is also planned to grant 5000 euros of premium to companies for the hiring of alternants under 18 years of age, and 8000 euros for major alternants. This is a first step that obviously calls for others. In addition to learning, it is also imperative to provide solutions to encourage the recruitment of trainees without delay. Professional experiences are indeed essential to the student to validate his or her career. Particular attention must also be paid to the 700000 new graduates who find themselves in a sluggish labour market, without any real hope of hiring and without any social assistance. In April alone, the number of declarations of employment fell by 65%, mostly affecting young people under 25 years of age. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] While the Libertés et Territoires Group has supported the extension of active solidarity income to 800,000 young people under 25 years of age without training or employment, an extension which could be envisaged with integration objectives in return, we believe that a simple financial mechanism will not be sufficient to support young people in their quest for vocational integration on a sustainable basis. That is why, as you will understand, our group will not support this motion for a resolution, although it raises a considerable challenge for the future of an entire generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u162	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u163	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u164	The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to create a student income which would be paid to any person enrolled in higher education, depending on his or her own situation and not that of his or her family, and which would rise to a level sufficient to enable him or her to provide for his or her material needs. Undoubtedly, the proposed scheme addresses an increasingly acute problem within society, namely the precariousness of students and young people. The Explanatory Memorandum cites several facts in favour of such student income. Yes, 20.8 per cent of students live below the poverty line, 24 per cent of students from popular backgrounds report serious financial difficulties, 30.9 per cent of students do not receive any help from their families, 46 per cent of students work during the school year, and 54 per cent of those working students believe that their employment is essential to living, while, according to an INSEE study, regular work significantly reduces the likelihood of successful completion of the year-end exams. The observation is clear: the precariousness of students and young people is an important phenomenon that exacerbates social inequalities. That is why, in order to repair the social elevator, we must act to give the same opportunity to every young person who starts in life. In addition to these social issues, there is a territorial divide. A study conducted by Chemins d'avenirs, the Jean-Jaurès Foundation and the French Institute of Public Opinion among young people between 17 and 23 years old on their choice of guidance and their relationship to the future, according to their social and geographical origin, shows that almost half of them – 48% – feel that their parents cannot finance student housing that is not close to their home. A trend that is growing among rural youth: 56 per cent report it, compared with 47 per cent among those living in the city. This is even more obvious among suburban youth with a higher standard of living: they are only 40%. Jérémie Peltier, one of the authors of the study, reported a psychological self-censorship among young people from these isolated territories: they felt that it was not for them that they were unable to do so. Because of this self-censorship, they tend to close the hatches to what they could do in the future. There is also a material aspect to consider, in particular the difficulty of moving around. In order to combat these inequalities, whose origins may be geographical or social, the Socialist and related group defends several proposals, including our economic, social and ecological rebound plan, published last week. We ask for a basic income paid automatically from the age of 18, a first job rebound bonus for all companies that hire a young person for a first job – a response to the health crisis, while about 700000 young people will be looking for a first job. We are also asking for first job rebound aid for young people with low resources. The aim is to restore and strengthen aid for the search for a first job, a real boost for the state to seek its first job with more tranquillity, introduced under the previous quinquennium and abolished in 2019 by the current government. We call for full coverage of the costs of all apprentices for 2020, regardless of the level of qualification, and for a strengthening of the youth guarantee, a support mechanism in partnership with local missions, which makes it possible to secure young people financially and remove obstacles to integration. We call for an immediate one-year extension of student scholarships for those who decide to extend their studies, thereby delaying their entry into the labour market. We are calling for a recasting of social assistance. The health crisis has, of course, brought new light to the precariousness of some students. We agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution: social assistance, based solely on the income of the parents, is no longer adapted to the reality of the living conditions of the students and the resulting threshold effects are difficult to understand. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs. Émilie Cariou also applauds]] The Socialist and Related Group therefore defends ambitious proposals to combat the precarious situation of young people and students, which the current crisis is likely to exacerbate strongly. In the name of the convergence between these proposals and those of the GDR Group presented by Mrs Buffet, our group will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u165	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u166	Students are now 2.7 million and almost 20% of them were already living below the poverty line before the health crisis. In 2019, the unemployment rate for 18-25-year-olds was around 19%, almost 10 points higher than for the rest of the population. Prioritised by precarious jobs, such as fixed-term contracts, temporary assignments or so-called uberized jobs, students were already experiencing a difficult daily before the crisis, forced to juggle their desire for academic success with their financial survival. According to estimates from the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – OFCE –, of the 620,000 posts destroyed during confinement in France, more than half were fixed-term contracts and temporary contracts, where young people are over-represented. According to Eurostat, in 2019, 54% of people under 25 were on temporary contracts, compared to only 13% of those aged 25-49. Today, their situation has worsened and many have fallen into poverty. These young people are among the public most affected by the economic and social crisis that we are beginning to experience and social policies are struggling to protect them. It is therefore urgent to remedy this situation. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group wants to give priority to this youth and is in favour of experimenting with a student income. However, the contours will have to be discussed in detail with all student organisations: the Union nationale des étudiants de France – UNEF –, the Fédération des associations générales étudiants – FAGE – and all those that are representative. We believe that this system will have to take into account the situation of each student – in particular his or her place of residence, with the cost of living varying greatly from one city to another – and that the question of the future of the half-tax to which parents are entitled when students remain attached to their home will have to be asked for funding. The majority of our group will therefore vote in favour of this resolution. But we will have to go further: students are not the only young people who deserve such an income. We must not forget all those who have a job or who are looking for one and who will experience precariousness. Young people with low or no qualifications, young graduates, young workers, precarious... the list of different profiles is long and young people are not the only ones concerned. It is therefore necessary to create a financial and human safety net in order not to leave anyone on the side of the road. Today, young people under the age of 25 do not have access to the AHR. We believe that this discrimination should no longer be: there is no age to be poor. It is therefore time to put an end to this by opening up this right from the age of 18 to deal with the future social crisis. The youth guarantee, already mentioned several times, accompanies 100,000 unemployed young people, without internships or training, but it is not a right. It is also limited in time and does not cover all profiles of young people in need. That is why our group will be tabling amendments as soon as the next draft of the amending finance bill to extend its scope and extend its duration for the beneficiaries arriving at the end of their rights, amendments which we propose to co-sign, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, in addition to the support for learning and the assistance of 200 euros for 800,000 precarious young people, we expect strong measures from the Government concerning the 700000 young graduates about to enter the labour market. How can we get a job as the country sinks into a recession announced as one of the most brutal among the industrialized economies, according to the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development? Very strong recruitment incentives for young people will have to be asked of the companies assisted during the crisis, as well as a meaningful eco-conditionality, because young people will refuse solutions to the discount, bullshit jobs or polluting activities and threatening the living, so that the world according to the covid is not worse than the one before. For many, a deeper malaise, linked to the search for meaning, is added to social suffering. The pandemic has intensified their concerns about environmental disaster, their sensitivity to injustice, racism and inequality. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups]] Their commitment to the poorest, since the beginning of the crisis, and the latest demonstrations are indicative of the changes in society that they expect and that we must accompany and not dictate. We are already talking about a covid generation, a sacrificed generation for which the future would laugh with disillusionment, while these young people barely enter their adult life. Let us accompany them to rebuild their projects calmly, while many have seen them fly out since the beginning of the crisis. Let us not wait, ladies and gentlemen, for the next drama to take action: what happened in Lyon with young Anas must never happen again. Let us therefore make the future of our youth a top priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u167	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u168	No one can hide their face: yes, the precarious student situation exists in our country, when 20% of French students live below the poverty line, when 46% work during the school year, and when, in one in five cases, this work dramatically undermines the success of studies. The unbearable, untenable, dramatic images of this student wishing to put an end to his days, in Lyon, to denounce the precarious student, must make us collectively think about the future that we want to offer to our students. The constant increase in student prostitution and its new forms must also alarm us. All of us here agree: the primary objective of a student must be to study. But words should not be transversed. The student is not a worker. He is not a worker because he has neither boss nor clients. He works for him, for his future, to prepare his future,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u169	For the nation, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u170	...not for a person who pays him in return for his labour force. Thus, by definition, he cannot receive income solely because of his student status. To a real problem, student precariousness, you answer with a bad solution: the massive functionalization of millions of young French people and their standardization. Your student income is the antithesis of republican meritocracy. Student income denies particularisms. It locks in a protective status instead of allowing emancipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u171	Emancipation is more difficult when you're the son of workers than when you're the son of executives!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u172	It offers temporary comfort instead of preparing for a future and forging an ambition. He develops even more this state assistance because, without being able to help the person in difficulty, the nation prefers to pay him a pension in order to apologize for not having been able to answer his problems, hoping through it, loosely, to buy his silence. [[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the GDR Group]] Again, you put the dust under the carpet, you treat the symptoms without tackling the origins of student insecurity. If some students are precarious, it is because the state has failed. Massifying access to higher education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u173	There's too many students, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u174	So there... reactionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u175	Of course, let's reduce access to university!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u176	... it has not upgraded its offer of services for students, in particular the number of student residences and university restaurants. In Paris, there are 6,750 student housing units for 700000 students in France. So, of course, students are forced to pay 800 euros for 15 square meters, simply because they are obliged to stay, and therefore to work to pay their rent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u177	And for food! To cultivate! Sporting for their health!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u178	Creating a student income will not change that. On the contrary, this will reduce rents, permanently excluding the non-student middle class from the centre of our metropolises, where our universities are also concentrated. Because access to higher education has been massiveized without upgrading student support services, republican meritocracy has been swept away by a social reproduction of no other kind for seventy-five years. From now on, those who study in the best higher education institutions in the capital are no longer the best high school students in France but those whose parents have the financial means and can support their children's material needs. Yesterday, a good provincial bachelor, a kid from Calais, could dream of entering the École normale supérieure or the Sorbonne; Today he can no longer think about it, the places being reserved by some happy few having attended the same Franciscan high schools. Today, France must allow the middle-class children of Calais to dream again of going to study in the most prestigious establishments, from the capital or elsewhere. This does not involve assistance, the infusion of all the young people of France, but through concrete services benefiting as many young people as possible, especially the middle class, those whose parents are too rich to receive any state aid but too poor to support their student child. This involves the massive construction of student residences and university restaurants, the development of digital and online courses, and the dissemination of knowledge. This also requires an upgrading and broadening of the criteria for awarding scholarships in order to directly reach the children of this middle class who are always good to pay, but never to receive. [[Smile on the benches of the GDR and EDS groups]] Nicolas Sarkozy had courageously acted in this direction during his quinquennium by creating a sixth step and introducing a tenth month of scholarship.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u179	He's got references!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u180	The restoration of republican meritocracy does not involve the functionalization of the students that you propose to us in the form of a terrible confession of failure and impotence, repeating what yesterday has already failed in other sectors of society. That is why the Republican Group will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u181	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u182	I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda, which gives us an opportunity to discuss together the urgent need to combat student insecurity. You have collectively expressed this wish in the explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution: "The National Assembly must once again be the driving force behind the fight against student insecurity. Let me join you and assure you of the Government's unbroken determination to take its full part in this struggle. We have often said so in the Chamber in recent weeks, and you have recalled, Mrs Buffet: the crisis of the covid-19 has put some students in situations of great insecurity. I am thinking in particular of isolated ultramarine students, those who no longer have access to university restaurants or those who have lost a job or internship. These exacerbated difficulties have led us, with the valuable support of local and regional authorities and associations, to mobilize ourselves from the very first days of this crisis, at every point in our territory, so that these young people can meet their basic needs. These difficulties have also led us to pay a specific benefit to 800,000 young people, whether they are students or not, up to 200 euros. Unfortunately, however, these difficulties did not date back to either the crisis of the covid-19 or the quinquennium. That's why we started a fight against student insecurity as soon as we came to power. The Ministry of Higher Education initially mobilised an additional €46 million to finance student scholarships. A total of €5.7 billion is spent on student aid in the State budget. The Ministry has also made a strong effort to ensure that students in precarious situations have access to housing and emergency assistance specifically for them. My colleague Frédérique Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, recalled that more than EUR 15 million of emergency aid is not consumed every year. This is why last January the Ministry set up a national telephone number for all students in situations of social emergency. He also called on the entire student community, trade unions and university presidents to ensure that no students in difficulty remain unanswered. The fight against student insecurity is not limited to the question of scholarships. It also requires determined action to promote access to housing and access to care for all students. With regard to access to housing, in 2018 the Government launched a plan of 60000 new student housing units, in addition to the 40,000 built in the previous five years. At the same time, the Law of 23 November 2018 on Housing, Planning and Digital Development made it possible to make many advances in the access of students to housing, in particular thanks to the Visale guarantee. It provides unconditional rental guarantee to all young people under 30 years of age. As far as access to care is concerned, I would point out that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health has engaged in a merciless struggle against all forms of non-recourse because, as you pointed out, there are still too many students who give up certain treatments or tests. As Céline Calvez mentioned, we have also abolished the student social security system, which is part of the general scheme, which is a major simplification and an immediate gain in purchasing power. The annual contribution of 217 euros on student finances has thus disappeared. In addition, when we created the complementary health fund, we excluded the grants from the resources taken into account for its allocation, so that this health fund now benefits a large number of scholarship students. This health supplement allows you to access a series of consultations at the doctor's, dentist's, hospital and also to benefit from a wide range of eyeglasses, dental prostheses, medicines and medical devices without any expense. It is a major tool for combating cessation of care, which we continue to deploy for the benefit of students. The factors of precariousness mentioned require an exemplary and concerted mobilization of all actors, and we must tirelessly struggle to ensure that everyone has equal access to academic success. If I agree with you on the findings, I would like us to look together at ways in which we can combat the precariousness not only of students, but of young people as a whole. I am confident that we will benefit from a more comprehensive view of these issues and from looking at the situation of all young people between the ages of 18 and 25. We will gain in reasoning by age group and in addressing the pressing challenges faced by our fellow citizens between the ages of 18 and 25. This age group is most affected by poverty: one in four young people aged 18 to 24 years is in poverty and 775,000 of them are not in employment or training. We will have a higher number of young people looking for jobs in the next half-year, particularly affected by the crisis. We cannot let what some already call the "covid generation" settle down. We must collectively give ourselves the means to reject the idea that a generation can be permanently weakened. Both students and dropouts, apprentices, unemployed young people and all those in need must be accompanied. Whatever their status, all young people must be able to meet their basic needs, have access to care and housing, and be accompanied to activity and employment. No young person shall be left on the side of the road. For both students and all young people, the fight against precariousness is a fight that I had waged long before the current crisis. Precarious young people are the priority target of the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, which includes a training obligation for all young people up to the age of 18 from the start of 2020, the mobilization of more than 100,000 places as guarantees for young people, and increased support for young people who have left the system of social assistance for children. However, we must go further: not only accelerate the deployment of the measures intended for them in the framework of this strategy, but also commit new means to ensure that, in the current exceptional circumstances, all young people have access to the necessary support. The motion for a resolution defends the profound modernity of the project to create a student income. I believe, for my part, that profound modernity is to be sought on the side of a comprehensive approach to the place of young people in our model of social protection,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u183	That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u184	... an approach that would address both access to benefits and accompaniment to employment. The State cannot simply pay young people money for the balance of any account. The work carried out in the context of the preparation of a future universal income of activity had made it possible to draw two conclusions which, in my view, we must remain faithful. On the one hand, opening up the universal income of activity to young people aged 18 to 24 would mean taking into account the real resources of young people, hence the help they receive from their parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u185	It's not very complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u186	Otherwise, we would risk paying a benefit to young people who do not need it, thereby reducing the State's ability to help those who are most in difficulty, in a context of great tension on State and social security budgets. On the other hand, accompaniment is at the heart of any policy to combat poverty, and that is the meaning of my work. In this respect, the Youth Guarantee scheme, which combines the payment of monetary aid with intensive support, can inspire us, as well as that of the second chance schools, to name but a few. The obligation to train will also be a major tool in the fight against drop-out. Monetary support and support must therefore go hand in hand. I agree with you that monetary support is of real importance. This is what guided my commitment to the universal income of activity, which I wish to be able to resume at the beginning of the year. These extremely complex subjects deserve in-depth training to target the right people and provide the necessary support for young people in difficulty. I am working on this, and we will be able to discuss it again with Parliament on this important subject, since many of you want to make proposals and enrich our own. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] While the Government does not support the study of student-centred income alone, I remain very sensitive to the inclusion of this debate on the agenda and once again thank the GDR Group for this contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u187	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u188	Since the position of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left on the motion for a resolution supported by Mrs Marie-George is no secret to anyone, I will use these two minutes of explanation of vote as a forum to try to convince colleagues who are still undecided to vote for this text. All of this pushes us to introduce student income to recognize the work of students in our country and the value they produce. Yes, dear colleague Dumont, you have heard! Perhaps you will discover today that the work is far from being defined by the mere fact of having a boss or employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u189	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u190	This is not even the definition of employment, especially that of work. It can even have a value that is not marketable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u191	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u192	Our motion for a resolution sets out an extremely serious mechanism to put an end to student insecurity. It is also a promise of emancipation for all. Student unions that have been fighting for many years for an autonomy allowance or for a student income support the recognition of students as young workers or intellectual workers. The granting of such status requires the allocation of an allowance or income. How can we accept today, at the end of the crisis of the covid-19, the state of precariousness of the students of our country? How can we accept that, every year, 90,000 of them drop out of school for financial reasons? It's absolutely unbearable. The measure we propose is all the more useful as student insecurity has been growing for several years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Aurélien Taché also applauds]] At the end of the last war, if the Langevin-Wallon plan had not been implemented, the longer lifespan had led to the recognition that older workers were, in a way, entering a new age and had to be covered by retirement status. Today we propose a student status. The period we have just lived should convince you to create it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u193	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u194	As I said in the general discussion, the Socialist and Related Group will of course support this motion for a resolution which will enable our young people to study under acceptable conditions. Everything has been said about figures by Mrs Buffet: more than 24 per cent of students are in financial difficulty; 30% are not supported by their families; 46% work at the same time as they study, half of which feel it is essential. Our social elevator is down. We do not know how to accompany our students, do not allow them to study in good health and do not allow them enough time for their studies. Families living in territories far away from universities, already strangled by travel costs, find it even more difficult to finance student housing. How do you want rural youth to project themselves into studies, to imagine a better future? The student income proposed to create Ms Buffet is welcome. Far from being an expense, it is an investment of the future for a young person who is in trouble of hope. It is also an opportunity for the territories because it is the condition for rural young people to have access to education. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I repeat, we support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u196	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u197	Among the students, there is an unsustainable precariousness: many of them are forced to work or starve. Yet, since 2017, we have been working to improve their living conditions, through scholarships or purchasing power gains. Thus, while protecting their health, we exempt them from paying their social security contributions. Beyond financial assistance, we are also trying to give them the keys to their future, through our orientation efforts. You want to offer them an income; But it risks widening inequalities. Indeed, you only take into account the situation of the student and not that of his family. In doing so, you may give money to a student who doesn't need it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u198	Yes, he needs it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u199	...to the detriment of others. This is the main flaw of this proposal. The text has the merit of raising a real debate, but we would like to pursue it from a broader perspective: rather than keeping students in a statute, we must promote recognition of their work, whatever it may be. Training, short or higher, is an investment time that then allows the company to be given. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The question you are asking is interesting, but your solution is not the right one. The Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u200	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u201	The subject of student insecurity is central to our society. A few years ago, I was one of them: I didn't need to work to support myself, but many of my friends had to do it and take care of it. However, you approach the subject from a wrong angle. You are now attacking the symptom: the fact that students have to work to support themselves; the fact that, because they have to pay rent and food – prices in university districts are often fierce – they don't have enough time to devote to their studies and struggle to succeed. But the heart of the matter is that the state has not built enough infrastructure to accommodate them, so that they do not have to stay in the private park.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u202	That's true, too. One doesn't prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u203	A real answer would be to build massive student residences. This would avoid always replicating the same system, a functioning system, where social peace is bought with aid and subsidies. The student income you want to create would in fact not serve much since you would miss your target. Even if I understand the objective pursued, which is right – to allow students to work calmly without worrying about the payment of their rent – I sincerely think the way is wrong. It's been fifty years since we've been working this way, without ever imagining a different system, for example, I said, by building massive residences to house students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u204	How many students have to work in university cities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u205	In France, university fees are low compared to other OECD countries, if not non-existent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u206	Oh! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u207	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Consider: 170 euros in license, 243 euros in master... Compare! Every year, our country invests 15,000 euros per student in higher education. For the Republicans group, a real social measure would be to allow students to benefit from decent housing outside the private park. That's where the state is expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u208	We're gonna have to go back to the field, or college!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u209	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u210	A lot has been said. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement shares the same observation: the need to act quickly and strongly with students in difficulty, who cannot conduct studies as effectively as they would like because they have to spend too much time supporting themselves. But your proposal, to the point of praise and generosity, is poorly calibrated: it affects a target far too broad. The objective must be retained, but different answers must be sought. For my part, I support the Group's proposal to act together: to rework the proposal to better calibrate it and to better establish the sources of funding, without necessarily limiting it to students. And among them, we must target those who are in need. I have children, for example, who manage to support themselves by working a little. In our society where we have to move forward, fight and stand up to global competition, do we have to give a student money in principle, just because he's a student?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u211	So, we're forging character for them, so they can compete later? That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u212	[[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Some need it and they need to be targeted. Others don't need it. I do not want an advantage to be offered to all students, whether needy or not, simply by virtue of their status.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u213	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u214	I thank the comrades of the GDR Group for this motion for a resolution. I find the positions that have just been expressed amazing. Sclerosis, clinging to old models, you can't imagine a solution to students' problems. The question is not to know, as I have heard, whether to exclude from the scope of the measure students whose families can support themselves: students need time to study, but they also need to emancipate themselves, including their families! Whether they come from an affluent environment or not, they must be able to dispose of a dwelling without having to beg for payment from their parents. In fact, our colleagues' proposal is in no way contradictory to the fact that more student housing is being built. As for Ms Calvez's argument, he refers to a fundamental difference between our approaches. You are talking about the students whose families would have sufficient income, but it is not on the student income that the necessary distribution of wealth must be carried out: this is the role of tax! Consent to tax and the sharing of effort are one of the pillars of living together that underpins the Republic, the most affluent of which must contribute more. The fair distribution of the tax, this system that you recognize laminating,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u215	Not at all, she never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u216	... would allow all students, regardless of the fortune or misfortune of their parents, to benefit from an income to study in a normal way, and not immersed in the fierce competition of the world of sharks that Bruno Fuchs dreams of. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is not the world we dream of, it is not the world we defend with our comrades in the GDR group. That is why the Group of the European People's Party supports this motion for a resolution and will vote without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u217	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u218	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u219	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u220	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and others in favour of the contribution of high incomes and high heritage to the effort of national solidarity (No. 3003 corrected, 3076).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u221	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u222	For the past three months, we have been fighting a crisis that has shaken the lives of the French, and brought to light the social fragility of many of them. Moreover, the historical economic recession in which we have entered will create difficulties that we may still be far from imagining. We will all agree that, in such a situation, the State is the guarantor of national cohesion, and that its action will be decisive to prevent the tragedy we are experiencing from destabilising the foundations of our republican pact on a lasting basis. Unfortunately, in spite of the circumstances, there are still some old dogmas that have not been shaken by the crisis and which some cling to until the end of the nails, under which it would be forbidden to ask the most fortunate citizens to participate fairly in the financing of the public authorities, at a time when they so much need it. During the examination of this text in committee, I was struck by the conservatism of some. Since the 1980s, we have been the victims of a myth that tax cuts would mechanically stimulate growth and promote a spontaneous reduction of inequality. To my colleagues always convinced that the race at least so-called tax preserves virtues, I have only one thing to say: doubt. If not, you will ignore all the studies and research that show that as the redistributive system fades, poverty increases. Doubt because otherwise you will not hear the ever stronger protests of our fellow citizens who no longer bear that the social choices that founded our common life die with little fire. I am convinced that a fair contribution must be sought from the most fortunate. It is not a revancuous or punitive logic, it is justified by an indispensable effort of solidarity. First, despite France's most sophisticated redistributive system in the world, it is no longer able to reduce inequalities in living standards. The main reason for this is the deterioration in tax escalation. Today, the effective tax rate of the richest 0.1 per cent is equivalent to that of the poorest 10 per cent. In addition, 1 per cent of the wealthiest households own a quarter of the private wealth of households. In order to reverse this trend towards the ever-increasing concentration of wealth, Article 1 of the draft law provides for the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – in the form that was itss before its abolition in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u223	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u224	The creation of property tax – IFI – in addition to participating in increasing inequality, is an economic nonsense. The Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – INSEE thus shows that 340,000 people, located in the vast majority of the last twenty years of standard of living, shared a gain of 3.4 billion euros. The economic effectiveness of removing the ISF has not been demonstrated. First, as the Senate Finance Committee indicated last October, the reform did not generate returns from taxpayers. In any event, the exile of the ISF's debtors represented only 0.2% of the taxable persons: regrettable, but negligible. In addition, the IFI is unlikely to encourage increased productive investment. A survey showed that in 2018, only 29% of the taxpayers surveyed spent part of the gain from the removal of the ISF on business investment. On the other hand, 41% of them report using these sums to feed their savings. As we could expect, the IFI only allowed the wealthy to accumulate additional wealth. I will certainly be told that job creation has reached a record level in the last two years. But can you demonstrate a direct causal link between these results and tax reforms since 2018? During the committee's examination, I was told of the report of the Capital Tax Reforms Evaluation Committee. However, this report proposes only ex ante evaluations. Its editors even indicate in introduction that they have forsaken has assessed ex post the impact of the reforms, to be content with "positioning the landscape". On the other hand, it is indisputable that the IFI plate was badly constructed. When taxing so-called unproductive capital, it strikes rental investment, which remains an important economic sector in our country, while it exempts individuals from placing their savings in foreign bonds, which does not generate any positive effects for the real economy. However, in an emergency context, what I am proposing is a simple restoration of the ISF, which does not purge it of all its defects, the first of which is its heavily reduced plate. This issue will have to be addressed in the next finance bill – PLF. Article 2 of the bill provides for the abolition of the single flat-rate levy – PFU – the famous flat tax. The Institute of Public Policy shows that the economic effectiveness of this reform is not obvious either. We were told that the reduction in taxation on dividends should reduce the cost of capital for businesses. This assumption has no basis because the increased taxation of dividends can encourage the same companies to mobilise their profits in order to feed their self-financing capacities. In addition, the UFP has contributed to increasing income inequality: the gains of the reform are concentrated on the 5% of the most affluent households. You will surely retort me that the PPU has reported more than expected in 2018 and 2019. These initial results, however, mask the future abyssal cost of this reform. In order to strengthen the neutrality of the French tax system, however, the PFU generates major economic distortions. Combined with the decline in the corporate tax rate, it will result in an unprecedented 13.4 points difference between the taxation of wage income and the taxation of dividends. The forecast made by Gabriel Zucman, anticipating a cost for public finances of almost 10 billion euros per year, has been ignored by the Government. Finally, Article 3 of the draft law provides for an increase of the rates applicable to the exceptional contribution on high incomes to 8 and 10 per cent. As a reminder, this tax was created in 2012 by François Fillon's government, in order to involve the most wealthy in the country's recovery. The urgency of the moment demands that we re-mobilize this tool. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that in the coming years we will have to face new challenges. In a context of exceptional deterioration of public finances, which will encourage some to advocate more rigorousness, the safeguarding of the planet or the protection of public health calls on us to strengthen our means, not only to make the bet – which can be risky – of growth. For my part, I do not intend to offer you a solution that is sufficient for itself in the face of the task ahead. Nevertheless, the bill we are considering is a first step towards restoring the tax justice we lack, and building a more just and supportive society. In order to achieve this, we must call for the mobilization of all – I said well of all. And we will succeed, for your certainty is shaken. Within your majority, the doubt has settled, some have told me. Don't worry, I won't quote anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u225	Names!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u226	Even the Speaker of our Assembly did not reject the idea of an exceptional contribution. That means it's growing in the back! The fact that the President of the Republic feels obliged to speak about it on Sunday, even to repel it, is also a sign. [[Smile]] [[Rites and applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I feel like in a few months, you've had a hell of an old man's shot... and we've had a hell of a young man's shot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u228	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, FI, EDS and LT groups]] Our proposals, yesterday swept away by a back end, are today of a glaring topicality and widely supported by a majority of French. Join us, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u229	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u230	We're going to hear about the poor rich again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u231	What this crisis shows us is that the old recipes are no longer working! It therefore requires us to find a new solution to boost our economy and support our citizens. I can only subscribe to your objective, which has always been that of the Government: to redistribute added value among all citizens and to reduce inequalities – not only are they economically ineffective, but they are also the root of social division. Let me remind you, however, that, according to economic and sociological studies, France is one of the countries in the world where public policies most strongly correct income inequalities, by reducing disparities by a significant redistribution towards the most modest. At the same time, these same studies point to inequalities of major destiny. In France, it takes five to six generations to change the socio-professional category, whereas it takes two to three in our neighbours and it also took two to three in our country about forty years ago. Therefore, we must not mislead ourselves with a fight, nor with an instrument to carry it out. The fight you are proposing to us is limited to the taxation of high incomes alone. The instrument you suggest to us means a step back, since it is the pure and simple recovery of the ISF. The French expect much more from us: they expect us to invent new effective tools and new solidarity, not that we resist devices that we know are ineffective...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u232	It is your liberal policy that is not effective! The Americans show it to us every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u233	...and that they would be counterproductive today. The French are waiting for us on the fight for a school, a health and a work accessible to all, that is to say, as many subjects as we have taken to arms-on-body, as we think about the duplication of classes in REP – priority education networks – and REP+, on the poverty plan, on the plan "my health 2022" or, in a completely different register, on the territories of industry and on the plan "heart of town action". Is that enough? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Should the answer be fiscal? No.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u234	Taxation is solidarity! The tax is revolutionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u235	Many countries have better results in terms of inequality with a much lower level of taxation: before sharing wealth, they still have to be created.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u236	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u237	Allow me, as a first step, to return to the reforms of the Government in the area of capital taxation, clearly announced by the President of the Republic. Their aim was to improve the readability, predictability and competitiveness of our taxation, which is too often approached from an ideological point of view – we hear it again today,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u238	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u239	You're the one who's making ideologies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u240	... while it is necessary – even more so than yesterday – to exercise pragmatism. Before the reform we initiated, wealth taxation was significantly higher than in our European partners – we are far from a race at least called tax! The results have not been delayed: this has affected the economic attractiveness of our country and, subsequently, our social situation and the state of our public finances, strengthening our preference for unemployment at the expense of employment. The finding has not changed; It is even stronger now that we are going through the biggest economic crisis that we have experienced in almost a century and that we are going to have to revive our economy. The reform we have initiated is effective. It has enabled France to strengthen its competitiveness, attract investors and create massive jobs. Taxpayers' expatriations to wealth tax slowed down: departures were divided by three in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u241	Because they're all already gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u242	In 2018 and 2019, France was the first European destination for industrial investment and research and development. Our tax policy is clearly cited by investors as an explanatory element of this renewed interest. The people who have benefited from the job creation linked to this reform thank us! It was guided by the search for a collective benefit for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u243	For the shareholders, yes! For the French, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u244	We have not touched on the exceptional contribution on high incomes, because we believe that it is legitimate for the most affluent taxpayers to contribute more to the tax effort. We turned the ISF into another tax, the IFI, to which it became much more difficult to escape. Paradoxically, the ISF, because of its income cap, taxed very high assets less strongly than lower assets. The Committee for the Evaluation of Capital Taxation Reforms, an independent committee, was asked to give an ex ante opinion on the effects of the reform and issued its first conclusions shortly after it had been implemented – other reports should of course follow – while only the first signals had been sent to investors – who did not fail to respond. Experts on this committee agree that the new tax system for household savings is much simpler and more legible than the previous one. This new regime discourages tax optimisation behaviour, which was an induced effect of capping and was detrimental not only to public revenues, but also to the lives of companies, particularly during transmissions. I would remind you that in Germany, one in two companies is transferred, compared with 17% in France. I would add that the reform has helped to reorient household savings towards productive investment and corporate financing, which will be the cornerstone of our recovery and exit from the crisis. At a time when, on these banks, we are being asked about the necessary strengthening of the equity of companies, in the same movement, we want to tax it. This is totally inconsistent. I want to point out, then, that our fiscal policy has focused on the popular and middle classes, largely forgotten during the last two legislatures. The facts are stubborn; Let me call them back. The tax cuts incurred during the quinquennium are expected to reach €27 billion for households and €13 billion for businesses, which still puts us high enough in terms of tax competitiveness. Again, we are far from the race at least so-called tax! With regard to income tax, a reduction of 5 billion euros was voted at the end of 2019: it will substantially reduce the tax effort of the middle and popular classes and will erase the effect that you mentioned of a tax rate of entry into the levy marginally at the same level as that of the richest classes. We have taken the necessary steps, because we do not make ideology. It is 17 million tax households that will experience a reduction in their income tax, for an average gain of around 300 euros. The gain will be even greater for the 13 million households taxed on the first instalment of income tax, i.e., modest taxpayers and the middle and middle classes. We will not give up these strong measures for our most troubled citizens, because they are even more necessary after the crisis. We also decided to extend, in 2020, the exceptional premium exempt from all social contributions and contributions and income tax up to a limit of EUR 1000. Between 11 December 2018 and 31 March 2019, it was paid to more than 400,000 establishments, to about 5 million employees, which represents 2 billion euros. On average, it reached nearly 400 euros. All these devices allow redistribution to be rebalanced. And these are just a few examples of all those we have created to help, even before the crisis strikes them, our working, middle-class fellow citizens. Finally, to deal with the crisis, we have taken a powerful and unparalleled action in our recent history. For the support plans alone, we have mobilised EUR 110 billion, the bulk of which is for employees, thanks to partial unemployment, but also to the self-employed, the traders and the craftsmen who have been most exposed, thanks to the solidarity fund. We must collectively live up to the challenges of re-creating the confidence and growth needed to support our recovery and the changes it will promote: the ecological transition, digital accessibility and territorial inclusion. This is the project defended by the President of the Republic – a project of the future, which will allow, in France, the creation of wealth, including tax. If there are fights to be waged on the subject of taxation, they are European: the taxation of digital platforms, the minimum taxation of enterprises, in the course of the work of the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – or the fight against tax fraud, particularly in the area of VAT – value added tax – to which I add, even if it is not a tax itself, the mechanism of carbon inclusion at the borders of the European Union. These are effective reforms that we have undertaken and that we are defending on the international stage. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Nicolas Turquois also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we are proposing in this text is to fall back on the same path without a solution. On the contrary, what we are proposing is to draw a new common path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u245	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u246	Let's say it clearly: we're going from very far to convince you – and therefore convert you! – to give even a wisdom opinion on one of the three sections of our bill. As we know, this text has been at the opposite end of the Government's political choices since 2017. You have consistently defended the idea of a steady reduction in taxes on households and businesses. It's one of your guidelines. We have been challenging the validity of this policy since 2017, as our analysis and assessment show that this policy fully disproportionately favours the income and profit margins of large companies. In addition, it increases social inequalities and weakens our major public services. When the recast of the tax on wealth became emblematic, for a majority of French, of the breakdown of the solidarity pact of the nation, you maintained your rigid and ideological posture. In your opinion, this tax had not demonstrated any efficiency or usefulness in tax justice or budgetary surplus value. The same logic prevails with the single flat-rate levy that you have introduced to cap the tax on taxpayers in the higher instalments of the scale. So we have no illusions about your answers to this question. The EUR 3 billion that the state could, at a minimum, remobilise following our first two proposals are now untouchable in your opinion. You have said in unison that you are avoiding any increases in household taxes to cushion the effects of the crisis in the short term and to enable it to emerge in the long term. I would point out that our proposals are a matter of positive discrimination: it is not, far from that, all taxpayers who would be affected, but a tiny minority of them, those who live in the greatest ease. But is this remark really such as to question you? Will the third proposal of the text find more thanks to you? It concerns the exceptional contribution on high incomes created during the previous crisis ten years ago. The expression "exceptional contribution" is, you will admit, more reassuring than the vocabulary of the tax or tax, which you accuse the communists of making constant use of. It almost covers the idea of a voluntary donation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u247	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u248	... limited in time, able to flatter the sense of charity of the "two hundred richest families" of France, Lagardère, Arnault, Pinault and the others. We propose to increase the rates of this contribution somewhat to benefit from an additional $1 billion in return. But, you will tell me, it's so little – and for what? Bercy defends a policy of support for supply – in short, massive aid plans that are first and foremost directed towards companies – but the new amending finance bill – probably not the last one – also incorporates, as you said, Madam Secretary of State, exceptional direct aid for 800,000 precarious young people under 25 years of age and for the most fragile households. Given that this amending budget contains only 13 billion direct budgetary expenditure – the rest being cash-flow measures – we claim that this additional revenue of 1 billion would be significant and just to consolidate, in time and volume, the support and solidarity to all those who suffer, and will suffer, the effects of the crisis. You must admit, Madam Secretary of State, that what we are proposing here is elementary and modest in ambition for Communist Members, far below our strategic orientations. However, these measures would contribute to resistance to the crisis and to the recovery of society in cohesion. We do not claim to reinvent ourselves, but the situation invites you to reconsider your political responses. [[The speaker takes off one of his shoes, with which he beats in rhythm on the table. – Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] All observers believe that the consequences of this crisis will be felt for another two years. So we can't recommend too much that you be very attentive to the feeling of your action – and therefore to our proposals. A real flasher tells us that this must be the case: it is background noise. As a politician, you listen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u249	Mr. President, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u250	Mr. Wulfranc, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u251	... and hear many voices say that the ISF has nothing radical or extreme and that it can be considered for recovery. Follow that background sound!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u252	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u253	Put your shoe back on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] No doubt it will still take a lot of powerful reminders to the people's order for this to be the case. This bill aims to contribute to it, because otherwise your policy will always be as worn out as the sole of my shoes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u255	Don't forget your paper or your shoe, Mr. Wulfranc. Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u256	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Our communist colleagues once again invite us to discuss labour taxation and capital taxation. Mr rapporteur, you will not be surprised if I tell you that the Group of the European People's Party is not going to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u257	Are you going to abstain?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u258	It is not for us to protect the rich, as you would like to repeat everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u259	That's still the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u260	Simply put, we do not want to make the French believe that a confiscatory approach would succeed in reducing inequalities and that redistribution would ultimately depend only on the redistributive function of taxation – it is a lie over thirty years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u261	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the legacy of the French Revolution, and even before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u262	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We have had this debate with your group on a number of occasions, and I have no doubt that we will have it again and again, because in reality, the assessment of the reforms does not matter to you. You are driven by this ideology of making people believe that by confiscating some...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u263	We don't confiscate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u264	... we will succeed in reducing inequalities for others, or by increasing taxation, we will be able to respond to all the economic, social and ecological problems of our country. But let me remind you that this has already been tried in the past and that it has not worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u265	You make what exists disappear! It's since your ideology is on the move that it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u266	In 2013, the government of the time significantly increased the taxation of savings. What happened? While it expected 400 million euros of additional tax revenue, in the end there was 1.3 billion euros of decrease in tax revenue due to the flight of capital abroad...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u267	Run, that's the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u268	It's an international auction! It's no use, and you know it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u269	...and the unemployment rate has increased. The instability and increasing tax pressure have had a negative impact on France's attractiveness and competitiveness, which are essential at a time when we are talking about industrial relocation and economic recovery – a revival that we all hope for in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u270	It is social justice that we call for!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u271	It is for these reasons that we have changed our paradigm. Believe me, we do it with great humility. We want the money that is no longer used by the state funds to be used for our economy, so that small and medium-sized enterprises can better finance themselves to create jobs, to strengthen their own capital or to invest in innovation. And because we believe in it with humility and without dogma, rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u272	Yes, I do! The liberal dogma!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u273	... we have set up by legislation a committee to evaluate the reform of capital taxation. Under the aegis of France Stratégie, it brings together a parliamentarian, the INSEE, the Directorate-General of the Treasury, three economists, including the president of the economic analysis board, trade unions and employers' organizations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u274	Let us know who it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u275	... the Council of compulsory levies, the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Bank of France. His evaluation work continues and we will present a second report in the fall, enriched by the aggregation of data from these structures and the research of economists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u276	Long live the reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u277	[[Mr. MounirMahjoubiapplaudit]] If the first report could only focus on ex ante evaluations, it is because tax reform does not take place the next day but over the long term, in contrast to your impatience and that of your group. Until then, you cannot preempt the conclusions, let alone assert with as much conviction that tax reform has aggravated social inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u278	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u279	On the other hand, we can agree on the situation in France before the health crisis: an unemployment rate which had fallen to 8.2%, its lowest level in 15 years; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u280	Precarious jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u281	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... an investment in our companies that was growing, to the point where France was even ahead of Germany and the United Kingdom; dynamic growth; a division by two of the number of tax exiles; 500 000 industrial jobs created and 40 billion euros of additional purchasing power redistributed to households. And during the crisis, what did we see? A government that chooses to fund almost all support costs by nationalizing wages through partial unemployment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u282	Who pays?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u283	... by ensuring a minimum income of 1500 euros through the solidarity fund, by offsetting the decline in the cash flow of companies thanks to the state-guaranteed loan, by accompanying the most fragile households with the exceptional aid of solidarity, by requisitioning hotel rooms for people on the street or to remove violent spouses, by issuing service cheques to the most precarious of our fellow citizens – and the list of measures and actions to be cited would still be long.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u284	What do you pay with? What's the recipe, if it's not tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u285	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You see, Mr rapporteur, that if we agree that the health and economic crisis will first affect the poorest of our fellow citizens and the most precarious workers, we do not share the solutions, since yours is once again trying to raise taxes in our country. On the contrary, we believe that France's future lies in the liberation of energies, in the protection of our most fragile citizens and in national unity. Unfortunately, your bill does not meet that ambition in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u286	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u287	Today we have to take a decision on an issue that has already been discussed many times in this House. Members of the GDR Group must be credited with the merit of consistency: they were already calling for the restoration of the tax on wealth and the abolition of the flat tax during the yellow vest crisis in order, once again, to point the finger at the "rich", or those considered to be such, as the real ones responsible for the crisis of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u288	Not at all! We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u289	But pointing at each other, opposing the French, has never been and will never be the ambitious, pragmatic and necessary policy that would benefit the country as a whole. It goes without saying that these are punitive measures, which are also counterproductive, since they could cause investment to run further out of France without improving the daily lives of the most modest. Members of the Republican Group are opposed to any creation or tax increase. This would be incomprehensible and ill-advised, even though for many years there has been a ras-le-bol fiscale and our country is the champion of Europe's tax blundering,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u290	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u291	... with a compulsory levy rate which already amounts to 45% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u292	That's not true! It's a question of redistribution! Pedagogy, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u293	At a time when tensions are tangible and disturbing for national unity, on the contrary, our Assembly must establish a moratorium of at least one year on tax increases. Our country is suffocated by taxes, contributions, taxes and other levies, while the daily life of the vast majority of French people is not improving. I know that the ISF is a totem and that asking for its recovery makes it possible to attract the sympathy of public opinion at little cost, but it only warms up the debates, exacerbates the stresses and creates polemics as useless as sterile. With each crisis, you answer "taxes", without even measuring the real impacts on the economy that result from it; to each problem, you find an umpteenth new tax forgetting that everything is already taxed and overtaxed. In fact, as you know, restoring the ISF would be both inefficient and unfair. You also know that this tax actually affected the upper middle classes much harder than the great fortunes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u294	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u295	On the other hand, it should be noted that the ISF has not really disappeared, since it was replaced by the IFI, which has increased its unfairness by favouring the richest of former taxable persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u296	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u297	Indeed, the IFI saves the largest fortunes, those whose wealth is essentially financial, while very hard affecting the upper middle classes who have invested in the stone. I would add that this stigmatization of property wealth reflects the biased view of macroism, which considers real estate investment as an annuity, which would obviously have to be taxed, whereas this is often a way for families to pass on a wealth to their children. The economic recovery to which we all aspire will inevitably involve a significant reduction in taxes and the removal of the constraints that hinder or even impede the economic development that our country so much needs. Restoring the ISF three years after its abolition would further exacerbate fiscal instability, a French specificity that has disastrous consequences for our economy. Taxpayers and businesses, on the contrary, aspire to greater tax coherence and legibility. It is imperative and without further delay to free up the room for manoeuvre of our businesses and households. For all these reasons, the Republican Group is not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u298	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u299	I will begin my speech by recalling that the tax reforms undertaken by our majority since 2017, in conjunction of of course with other reforms, have increased France's attractiveness. In 2019, our country became the first destination for foreign investment – it's not nothing. Before the health crisis, France's economic and financial health record had improved considerably. Read, ladies and gentlemen, the INSEE analyses: they show that thanks to the measures taken during this Parliament, notably the reduction in taxes, the increase in purchasing power had led households to consume more and businesses to invest and create jobs – and the reduction in unemployment is not nothing. We are far from this story that we have been serving for months these agitators in constant revolt and those opponents who dream of a country in ruins and describe it as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u300	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u301	The reality is quite different and it is not by restoring the ISF or by increasing taxes that our economy will be better. The French and our companies were calling for fiscal stability: we heard them and we want to maintain that stability. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, brandishing the ISF totem here on a regular basis, still today with this bill, thus helping to send a negative message to the economic world and to our young entrepreneurs does not make sense and contributes dangerously to making France a repulsive place for those who dream of doing business.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u302	All we have to do is become a tax haven!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u303	The ISF, which was set up under François Mitterrand's presidency, nevertheless had a morally noble objective by the desire to restore tax justice. But it must be noted that its economic efficiency was particularly controversial before it proved to be non-existent. There are some arguments against the re-establishment of the ISF. First, it is a tax confiscatory and unfair...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u304	It's the fortune that's unfair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u305	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] ...because, to pay for his ISF, you had to sell assets or take on the income from his work or his savings. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the island of Re syndrome – the fact that low-income farmers and land owners were subjected to the ISF as a result of the boom in real estate and treated as rich in spite of them. Who can now validly argue that our farmers are rolling on gold? Besides, this syndrome did not disappear with the creation of the IFI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u306	You want to go further!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u307	In addition, the ISF was sometimes higher than the family's meagre incomes. This is an absurd situation for a tax supposed to correct the inequalities of the heritage! Second argument: it was an anti-business tax, anti-entrepreneurs. Not only did the ISF encourage – and even invited – entrepreneurs to leave, but it discouraged those who remained in France from developing their business. Those who left no longer paid the ISF, no more taxes, no more VAT and, in some cases, the same people were forced to transfer their productive activities. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the net expected gain of the ISF was actually very low or even negative?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u308	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u309	The ISF cost more than it did.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u310	It's an old adage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u311	I still have other arguments, but I will settle for one last: the ISF is a tax that is like double taxation, or rather overtaxation, because capital is just the accumulation of already taxed income. The MODEM Group therefore expresses, of course, a strong opposition to this first article. With regard to the second, in which you plan the repeal of the UFP, our position is also clear: we are equally strongly unfavourable. Is it worth recalling that this scheme has generated more revenue than expected, i.e. 3.5 billion euros instead of the 2.9 billion foreseen in the finance law? With the introduction of the UFP, there was a 24% increase in dividend distributions, where SMEs no longer distributed dividends and left money dormant. Such an increase corresponds to additional revenue for the State and social security accounts. I conclude with section 3, by which you want to introduce an increase in the exceptional contribution on high incomes. Our group expresses an unfavourable position on this article. Although an exceptional contribution in a period of crisis is a tempting idea, such an increase in this contribution must be excluded. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is why our group rejects your bill as a whole and why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u312	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u313	This proposal put forward by our colleague Jean-Claude Dufrègne, from the GDR Group, tends to introduce an exceptional contribution from those who are going rather well, and even very well, a contribution that could be called, in these times of difficult history, an effort of war. Indeed, after this exit from confinement, the Government, the largest economists and forecasters and the largest institutions agree that our country is entering a strong recession, which will require a stimulus plan that we hope will be powerful, in any case commensurate with the economic, social and ecological rebound plan that our group is proposing. There is also the question of the enormous debt resulting from emergency measures taken to support our economy and to safeguard employment and skills. In addition to the presentation made by the rapporteur on the situation in our country, OFCE, the French Economic Observatory, is particularly alarmist about the deterioration of the indicators. It believes that GDP should not return to its current level until mid-2022, after a fall of more than 10%, and that the unemployment rate is likely to exceed 11%; consumption is forecast to fall by more than 9%, business investment would fall by 23% and the savings rate could be set at a historical level of 22%, to the tune of EUR 100 billion, which speaks volumes about the serenity of the French. Faced with this particularly deteriorating and disturbing situation, the President of the Republic, in his last speech before the announcement of his recovery plan, set out the way: the war effort will be financed by debt. Far from it the thought of putting this debt to bear for future generations: it is growth to come that will give us the ability to repay this debt, he tells us. The path is set: we will have to produce more and, above all, we will not increase the tax, in particular the production tax. In short, it will be a neoliberal supply policy focused on competitiveness. This path to which the President invites us questions about its social consequences and its effectiveness. Work more cheaply? "Working more to earn less" is an expression that seems to me to stick to his skin. This job blackmail, which is beginning to be observed in many companies, has become unbearable. The repayment of the debt without going through the tax contribution to the extent of each person's possibilities also questions the measures that will be introduced. Will there be, in particular, a new course for austerity policies and, above all, less public service? Our colleague's proposal, which aims at better balance between supply and demand policies, seems reasonable, fair and supportive: it is a question of asking for an exceptional contribution on very high incomes and very important assets to those who go at best to simply give us the ability to redistribute purchasing power to those who lack it, in order to revive our economy through consumption, and thus provoke activity and, consequently, employment. The Socialist and Related Group will also use this time to propose, by amendments, to enrich this text with provisions aimed at giving our budget more revenue for a fairer redistribution. In this way, we will propose the restoration of the upper part of the wage tax, a levy of 0.5% on life insurance stocks exceeding 100000 euros and a ceiling on the marital quotient. Our proposals, like those of Jean-Paul Dufrègne's bill, do not affect competitiveness or consumption. Taxpayers are very largely able to support these additional contributions. We will therefore vote for this bill, which is synonymous with a balance of economic policies and social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u314	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u315	I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Christophe Naegelen, who has had to return to his very beautiful constituency. A lot of things have been said, a lot of opinions have been given. So here comes the eternal debate, which has so much to do with every crisis. Today's attack on our country requires us to think again about social and fiscal justice measures. The first question we have to ask ourselves about taxation is its usefulness: what is the purpose of taxation? Its first purpose is, in fact, the financing of public expenditure and it is appropriate to remind the French that their taxes are being used for something. It is, then, economic development: by reducing taxes, we favour our economy. The tax also has a social and solidarity aim, in the direction of a redistribution policy to help those who need it. Finally, it has an incentive function, particularly to encourage investment. This bill is interesting because it raises a crucial question for our country, to which we must find an immediate answer: how can we deal with the financing challenges that the crisis imposes on us? Should we reconsider our fiscal policy, built since the beginning of the quinquennium, by returning to the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and the creation of a flat tax, and by increasing the rate of the exceptional contribution on high incomes, as proposed in this text? Indeed, the solidarity tax on wealth was transformed in December 2017 into a property tax, focusing on the only taxable net real estate assets of more than 1.3 million euros. The Government had decided to exclude bank and financial investments and liquidity – which, personally, I regret because, as we know, financial stability is an essential tool for rebuilding confidence and reviving the economy, and businesses and individuals alike are very sensitive to it. However, in these exceptional times and in view of the significant impact of the Covid-19 on the French economy, we can legitimately ask ourselves the question of solidarity, but we must also focus on the form it must take, at the risk of creating a confiscatory taxation, and combine the various interests – our attractiveness and the recovery of our finances – without forgetting that France is not alone in the world and that it is essential for us to coordinate with the other countries of the European Union. The temporality of the debate is perfect, as the task of monitoring the reform was to assess this year, in 2020, the effects, in terms of investment in enterprises and distribution of wealth, of the abolition of the ISF and the creation of the IFI and flat tax. The figures are already telling: the IFI raised 2.1 billion euros in 2019, while the ISF raised 5 billion euros. For my part, I am convinced that in order to participate in the recovery of our public finances, we should instead make a contribution to the financial sector, by increasing the revenues from the tax on financial transactions. A better return on this tax would indeed help to contribute to the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis and to respond to the need to improve the management and control of the tax by rethinking its base, as stressed by the Court of Auditors. Talking about taxation with serenity and objectivity is not easy, but it seems to me that this text does not solve this problem. You can't just make a tax out of it and a tax out of it. The taxation of wealth requires a review as a whole in order to regain political and economic logic. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u316	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u317	The crisis which has just struck our country and whose effects are massive, lasting and serious, is destroying all the maps. A new ecological, solidarity and economic course must be set, without which the French will not adhere to this necessary effort to redress the country and continue its transformation. The programme on which the majority has been elected must no longer be an unsurpassable horizon for it – and it is no longer, judging by the adaptations that you have been making over the past few weeks. The President of the Republic stressed the need to reinvent political action and reinvent himself. It is in this context that the GDR Group is proposing an interesting debate, which questions the Government's fiscal policy and which must be conducted without any taboos. Mr Zumkeller was at the moment referring to the tax on financial transactions and I myself introduced a bill in 2007 to create that tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u319	In 2017, with the transformation of the ISF into an IFI and the introduction of a flat tax, the State lost 4 billion euros in profits. You said earlier, Madam Secretary of State, that France had become the first investment destination in 2019, which is true; But, as you read carefully the notes that economists make for you, you know very well that these measures are not the only cause and that there are other external factors, which I am prepared to develop whenever you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u320	Why don't you go ahead?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u321	However, as my colleagues have said, the inequalities and the feeling of injustice they create have progressed. Thus, the purchasing power of the ninety-ninth percentile has grown the most since June 2017, while at the same time 20% of the most modest households have seen their disposable income decline by about 1%. What about the measures proposed by our colleagues in the GDR Group? The abolition of the single flat-rate levy is, in my view, undesirable, as it could have a perverse effect on public revenue. The urgency of the moment, on the other hand, requires us to vote for the increase in the rates of the exceptional contribution on the high incomes that you remember, dear Jean-Paul Dufrègne, that it was introduced in 2012, at the initiative of Charles de Courson and your servant, to put the most fortunate to contribute. This is a reflection we must have. The key question with this text is whether or not we are restoring the ISF. To answer this question, the Libertés et Territoires Group believes that there are several avenues. The first is to reshape the taxation of wealth and inheritance rights, a solution that many economists consider to be the most effective in taxing capital and avoiding the maintenance of inequalities. In this sense, the choice should be left to the French, proposing two solutions: to pay a tax on the holding of assets from a certain threshold, without any inheritance tax, or not to pay it, in return for which the transmission of their assets would be imposed. This would be a concept of choice and responsibility. A third alternative, mixed, would be to consider the holding tax as a deduction from the transfer tax. This would not affect our most modest citizens, nor even the middle classes, since less than 15% of the inheritances exceed 100,000 euros, which is the amount of the discount for a direct line transmission. The second track, the one I prefer, would be to go beyond the heated debates about the re-establishment of the ISF or the validity of its transformation into an IFI. Let's try to move on a little! The Libertés et Territoires Group proposes the creation of a modernised capital tax, which would not only be symbolic, but would contribute to ecological and economic solidarity. Thanks to a mechanism of taxing and shifting revenue, its product would be fully invested in the ecological transition as well as in supporting very small enterprises – TPE –, SMEs, small and medium-sized industries – PMI – and mid-sized enterprises – ETI. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you will have understood, the question of the re-establishment of the ISF raised by this bill is inextricably linked to a much broader reflection on the taxation of wealth, but also on the financing of the ecological transition. Life insurance accounts for 2000 billion euros: when will we be able to move some of this money? More than adjustments, backsliding, because we need a minimum of continuity in tax matters, or ideological debates, we need a recast of our taxation. It must be thought of in the context of the ecological, economic and social emergencies on which our group has alerted you since its creation and which the crisis has just set as its top priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u322	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u323	The bill before us is intended to contribute high incomes and high wealth to the national solidarity effort. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Dufrègne on his unwavering commitment to the fight against inequality in our country. I would also like to thank him for the thorough documentation provided by his report on the samples in question. Article 1 of this text aims to restore the ISF as it was before the 2018 Finance Act transformed it into an IFI. Article 2 concerns the taxation of income derived from dividends, interest or capital gains: it tends to remove the single flat-rate levy – PFU – or flat tax, to return to a progressive scale. Finally, Article 3 provides for an increase in the exceptional contribution on high incomes, the ECHR, from 3% and 4% to 8% and 10%. The CEHR applies to incomes of more than 250,000 euros, thus to the most affluent households, the return on the measure is estimated at 1 billion euros. In short, you propose to increase the taxation of capital, high wealth and high income, in order to make them contribute more to the national solidarity effort. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group shares, in substance, this desire for tax justice, this vision of a contribution to national solidarity and to the financial balance of our public services proportionate to the means of everyone. That is why we will be proposing a series of measures to that effect ourselves when we consider the third amending finance bill next week and then when we consider the 2021 Finance bill. It is true that the transformation of the ISF into an IFI has allowed the defiance of financial products that should most certainly have remained on the basis of a wealth tax in the service of the economy. I want to talk in particular about liquidity, current accounts, life insurance accounts. The initial logic was to preserve a productive asset to maintain and increase the presence of investors in France; In this sense, only securities and shares, in no case cash or other investments, should be excluded from the scope of the tax. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss this again, Madam Secretary of State. With regard to the PFU, we are not in favour of a dry return to the progressive scale for capital products. Allow me a little historical reminder. In 2012, as part of the 2013 Finance Bill, it was planned to subject to income tax, among other things, capital gains on the disposal of personal securities. The tax could reach high rates, which are described by some as confiscatory – I would point out that a rate is not considered to be confiscatory beyond 5%, but beyond 60%, and that this concept has been specified by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u324	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u325	Above all, this baremization had given rise to the movement of the "pigeons". The solution at the time, together with the entrepreneurs, was to apply base discounts based on the length of the holding of the securities, in order to encourage long-term investment. It was an interesting but extremely complex option, with the disadvantage of misaligning the interests of investors, making divestitures and restructuring very difficult. We therefore propose to retain the UFP and recast it, in particular by increasing its rate by a few points, since in this time of crisis, high incomes must contribute more to the effort to recast our public services. In spite of what Mr Laqhila said, last year the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement was interested in this proposal: I therefore imagine that we will return to it in the course of our work in the Committee on Finance. Finally, with regard to the ECHR, we too believe, once again, that, in the current context, everyone must contribute to our system of solidarity according to their means. That is why we will be proposing, as part of the review of the third amending finance bill, to increase this contribution, although with a little more moderation than Mr. Dufrègne. At the same time, our fellow citizens expect other measures: those that will put an end to fiscal optimisation, that fiscal manipulation that multinationals are massively engaged in. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] In this regard, we will have proposals to make at the time of the consideration of the third amending finance bill, because we believe that the considerable state aid to the economy cannot be based solely on debt: in addition to the highest income, multinationals must contribute to it. Dear Jean-Paul Dufrègne, let us meet again on this occasion, pending the finance bill for 2021; I have no doubt that we will reach common positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u326	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u327	Four days ago, Emmanuel Macron said he wouldn't raise taxes. This is not the way to pay the additional debt created by the covid-19. We know who those words were. Ever since you came to power, you've been giving them wonderful tax gifts. They are the richest, precisely those of them who live on their rents, that is to say the shareholders, who have already profited a great deal from your widths. In recent years, they have received millions from the state. The French who work in the first, second or third line, those who can only rely on themselves to live, those who are mostly unknown, shopkeepers, cashiers, building workers, sometimes without papers, those who have been asked to ensure that the continuity of the nation's life is worth it, have had to remain at their post, more or less protected, often rather less than more, from the risk of contamination. On the other hand, when it comes to asking the rich for a contribution, even on an exceptional basis – we could have conceded this – you are the absent subscribers. The La France insoumée group has already proposed such measures on the occasion of the draft amending finance laws and the texts relating to the state of health emergency. Each time, as in the face of this bill by my friend and comrade Jean-Paul Dufrègne, we were told that there was no question of touching the richest, and above all of restoring the ISF. We have heard different versions of this answer. You told us that the ISF was purely symbolic and did not report anything: the lack of luck, the Institute of Public Policy, the IPP, whose reputation is well established and whose economists are not among the most anchored on the left, estimated the ISF's return from year to year at 3.2 billion euros. This is almost the equivalent of what the health care unions and the Inter-Urgences collective demand: 200,000 hires in EHPADs, just over 100,000 in hospitals, plus the targets for increasing wages and the number of beds. The least we can say is that such a sum is not merely symbolic. You also argued that you had not given gifts to the richest. The abolition of the ISF saves the 100 richest people in France 1.2 million euros per year! I do to you thanks to what the others subject to the ISF have gained from this measure; It's true that it's a little less. I will return to this point in the discussion of the articles. But money is not magic: you refuse to create money, which would prevent the debt resulting from the epidemic from weighing on the population in the future; So it had to be taken somewhere. You took it from those who produce wealth. According to the laws of the economy, some realize profits because others are paid less for their work than they should be. To this levy resulting from the very nature of the system, you add the tax levy. For example, the 10% of the most disadvantaged French people have seen their purchasing power diminish due to your tax gifts to the richest and measures such as the reduction of the LPA, personalized housing assistance. Finally, you tell us that the re-establishment of the ISF would bring the richest taxpayers abroad. But tax exile cost France 20 million euros a year, 160 times less than the 3.2 billion reported by the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u328	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u329	In the light of the situation, none of your arguments stand. We need to re-establish the ISF. As for the PPU, which is on the list of your tax gifts, I heard one of our colleagues in The Republic on the move explain that it reports more than the progressive scale, because the increased amount of dividends compensates for the drop in the rate. That's right: instead of paying wages, we pay dividends; There is a kind of shield of capital. In the long run, you will see the cost to the State of the difference between contributions and taxes on wages, on the one hand, and the taxation of dividends, on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u330	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u331	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I conclude, Mr. President. If you finally want to show that tax justice matters to you, you must pass this bill; Do not refer this question to the Greek calends, at least as long as your majority lasts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u333	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u334	Alphonse Allais said, "We have to ask more about tax and less about taxpayers. This is the difficult equation proposed by this bill. Since March, the State has been forced, in the light of global circumstances, to play its full role as a guarantor of national solidarity. Public spending has exploded. In the face of the economic crisis associated with the pandemic, the State has introduced a massive plan to assist the sectors most affected. In total, nearly EUR 500 billion was mobilised for the economy, for entrepreneurs, for workers, for French citizens whose situation was most uncertain. We must welcome these decisions: on this 18th June, we can affirm, once again, that the State has played its part, ignoring partisan ideologies and doctrines. The proposal for a law of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left rightly emphasises that the health and economic crisis will first hit the poorest citizens and the most precarious employees. Does this situation justify a return to taxation? In 2017, the ISF was transformed into a property property tax and a single flat-rate levy was introduced. The unproductive dormant savings have been gradually transferred to productive savings, which invest in our businesses and create social value and employment. This is the challenge of our modern societies open to the world. Macro-economic indices show that this policy is not a mistake, as I could have feared at the beginning of the legislature. Let me, ladies and gentlemen of the Communists, engage in a somewhat perilous exercise by trying to prove to you that Emmanuel Macron is certainly a Marxist who does not know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u335	He's not a Marxist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u336	What is at stake in our globalized, integrated, connected economies that know no borders or barriers? During the confinement, I reread Karl Marx's Gotha Program Criticism, which I had read during my youth. He wrote: "In today's society, the means of work are the monopoly of landowners and capitalists; Most often, the capitalist is not the owner of the land on which his factory is built. In short, there is a productive fortune and an unproductive fortune within the heritage. Indeed, Karl Marx criticizes the passage of Gotha's program which does not distinguish between capitalists, on the one hand, and landowners, on the other. In the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen, there is no class as such – you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u337	Who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u338	Everyone has become a powerful capitalist. The booklet A, owned by nearly 60 million French, is the best of the demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u339	He's not making any money! What rate of pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u340	The Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which you know very well, Madam Secretary of State, invests this money in projects of general interest, of course, but also in companies and in financial markets, in order to be able to pay the saver. There has never been so much liquidity available in France. On the one hand, thousands of billions of euros sleep, produce nothing; On the other hand, companies are struggling to find financing to create value and to invest. Today, therefore, the challenge is to give more power to employees in the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u341	On this point, we can agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u342	Everyone can and must become owner of a part of his business where possible and taxation must be concentrated on the holders of the property. On this, I am ready to follow you and go even further. Thus, with its 2017 tax reform, the President of the Republic has enabled this dormant property annuity to become more productive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u343	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u344	There is every indication that these reforms have been beneficial. Before the health crisis, growth was dynamic and investment increased. Paris had become the world's first capital for foreign investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u345	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u346	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] Helping the poorest to break out of insecurity is honourable and desirable – none here will disapprove of it. But doing so by pointing out the richest fingers and giving the impression of returning to the 19th century class struggle is, let me think, an outdated doctrine. If Karl Marx were with us in 2020, I think he would not be far from being a macroist, as I have just demonstrated. Your bill has one virtue: it allows us to reflect and take a step-by-step step on the tax reforms undertaken in 2017. Madam Secretary of State, what is the amount of capital that, by circulating, has ceased to be unproductive in order to become productive? How many jobs did it create? These are the questions I sincerely ask myself. For my part, I will abstain, while the rest of the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u347	Mr Ludovic Pajot, the last speaker, was not present. The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u348	I wish that, contrary to what you would like to repeat, we would once and for all understand that we are not trapped in an ideology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u349	Don't move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u350	It is true that it is easy to argue that if we return to these issues, it is because we are still in the last centuries and we would have old accounts to settle, revenge to take and punishment to administer. That's not it at all! Eric Coquerel pointed out, you did not see that the context had changed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u351	Yes, it is. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u352	...or rather, Madam Secretary of State, if you have realized this, you have not drawn all the consequences. Our bill is nothing revolutionary: I haven't said it yet, but it would be worth €6 billion. So she won't feather anyone! Does our country today need these means?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u353	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u354	A lot more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u355	More needs to be mobilized. You made the choice of debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u356	Job!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u357	I do not systematically dispute the choices you make,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u358	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u359	...and we validated it as part of the first amending finance bill. But it is now a question of finding ways to repay this debt. The question of national solidarity is therefore necessarily raised, and it is in any case the question that we are asking. I heard Philippe Vigier talk about an ecological and economic tax; As far as heritage is concerned, an opening should be made. We are not attached ad vitam aeternam to the word "ISF". On the other hand, we are convinced that the possessors must give a little bit. Again, $6 billion is not much. While Mr Coquerel wishes as we do to abolish the single lump sum levy, our colleagues in the Republic on the move and in the Democratic and Related Movement have declared their aversion to such a proposal. I also heard that the PFU rate could be increased. Mrs Cariou, for her part, recalled that the exceptional contribution on high incomes applied from 250,000 euros of income: not everyone is concerned! Two rates are provided for: for the part of the reference tax income between 250001 and 500000 euros and for that which is more than 500000 euros. These are the rates we propose to increase, in an exceptional way: do so for the next three, four or five years, because the country needs them! You demonstrate that if we are locked in the past, you are as much as we are, since, if we are clinging to our certainties, you too remain clinging to yours. I am pleased that this text will allow us to raise questions about the financing of the measures that the country needs to recover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u360	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u361	What guides us is employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u362	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u363	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] It's a good thing we didn't create a single one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u364	Employment means investing in businesses. I am not clinging to certainties: I am content to observe and observe that we have never created more jobs than in the last three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u365	You didn't create jobs, you created CSDs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u366	This, I repeat, should guide us. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is always possible to move money more productively: it is legitimate to discuss it. But that is not the purpose of this bill. And while companies lack equity, it would be counter-intuitive to prevent those who can put money into equity in companies, because that is what creates employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u367	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u368	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u369	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u370	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1, 2 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u371	We are trying to go beyond totems and to move forward: that is why I thank the rapporteur for allowing us to feed our reflections. Moreover, the various positions taken by the groups on this text – I am thinking of M'jid El Guerrab's – are not all hostile to asking those who have the most means to contribute to the effort in which we must commit ourselves. Madam Secretary of State, your priority is employment. After this crisis, I have several for my part: apart from employment, there is solidarity, which concerns not only health issues, but also the future climate risk, which will be much more destructive for our society than the crisis of the Covid -19, which nevertheless affected millions of French. We must therefore arm ourselves to live up to the climate threat that is looming. Today the 150 proposals of the citizens' convention for the climate, which had complete freedom of reflection, except on the question of taxation, are made public, as decided by the President of the Republic. How do you want to consider innovations to transform the country if, from the outset, the President of the Republic decides to do so? I note that one of the key proposals of this convention is to increase to 28 hours a week: this is proof that citizens want to move forward on climate issues. As you know, the Libertés et Territoires Group brings together Members from a wide variety of backgrounds, some of whom may not have shared the idea of this amendment, which is to create a tax not on wealth, but on ecological and economic solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] The proceeds of this tax would be directed towards financing the energy transition, which would allow money, Madam Secretary of State, to be reinjected into the real economy, that of the territories, in order to finance thermal renovation or renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u372	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u373	The aim of this amendment is to make the solidarity tax on wealth, which is reintroduced by Article 1 of the text, more progressive between the rich, while widening its base. Madam Secretary of State, stop pretending that tax gifts to the richest shareholders create jobs! Even among liberal economists, there is not one serious one to see the trace. On the other hand, these gifts always create more separatism and communalism. Communityism, in fact, is the fact that people practice endogamy while imposing their law on the state. That's exactly what rich people do in rich ghettos...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u374	In the 16th arrondissement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u375	[[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] ...and that's exactly what you're always promoting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u376	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u377	It is intended to clarify the provisions of section 1 of the proposed law. In view of the re-establishment of the ISF – I have no doubt that you will vote for it – the amendment coordinates the various provisions of the General Tax Code by repealing the articles on property tax. It also specifies that the date of entry into force of the provisions of Article 1 shall be 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u378	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u379	I think they're interesting. [[Smile]] Amendment No 1, tabled by the Liberties and Territories Group, was not considered by the committee. It aims, as Mr Lambert has explained, to create a new tax of ecological and economic solidarity, the basis of which would be broader than that of the current ISF. Indeed, seeing Charles de Courson's signature on such an amendment made me smile. I thought anything was possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u380	But it's very open!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u381	The amendment also seeks to establish a more progressive tax scale and to allow the various tax reductions to be charged against the amount of the contribution due. This proposal corresponds to the project that I am defending for my group, and I thank you for contributing to the debate. I would also like to point out that, despite the presumptive differences between the political groups regarding a tax debate, the Libertés et Territoires Group is also in favour of a proposal. This shows that the idea of a contribution of high incomes and high heritages to the national solidarity effort is gaining in mind. I reiterate that this contribution will be made in the coming months, in one form or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u383	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, I'm betting on it! We also support Amendment No 2, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which also tends to make the ISF a little more productive. The arguments of the supporters of a re-establishment of the ISF have already been widely presented before; We are also in favour of extending this tax. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] Therefore, although the committee has not considered Amendment No 1 and has delivered an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 2, I will personally deliver an opinion in favour of both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u384	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u385	What is the Government's view on the three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u386	I will not surprise you by announcing that he is unfavorable. Amendments Nos 2 and 4 propose adjustments to the solidarity tax on wealth, although Amendment No 4 could rather be regarded as a co-ordination amendment. As for Amendment No 1, it tends to make the ISF a lever of the ecological transition. But I believe that we do not need this to support the ecological and energy transition, which is at the heart of all our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u387	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u388	It is also included as a counterpart in economic support plans. Unfavorable opinion on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u389	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u390	Ah, it's gonna be good for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u391	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The ecological transition, we know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u392	[[Smile]] Of course! There's never been as much ecology as today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u393	We defended her during our campaigns, we defended her in bills,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u394	We had to do something, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u395	... we have adopted measures that are beginning to be implemented: the ecological transition is at the heart of our mandate and our fight! Stop systematically trying us for intent! (Applause from the LaREM Group. – Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups.) Mr Lambert, there's one thing I don't understand. We have brought together a citizens' convention for the climate, composed of French and French people who have to make proposals on these issues. But you don't even wait for the result of this work and go over it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u396	And the "Macron buses" are ecological?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u397	Finally, I am very surprised by one last point. Previously, the ISF base did not take into account professional goods, which are the working tools of citizens. Today, however, you want them to be included, including for winemakers and farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u398	Yes! By lowering the threshold, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u399	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group.]] But their property is the land and, for the wine growers, the stocks of wine. I am sure, Mr Lambert, that the winemakers of Bouches-du-Rhône will greatly appreciate the gift you are trying to give them! When I think that this morning we unanimously passed a bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u400	That you've changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u401	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...to ensure that agricultural retirement pensions are raised to 85% of the minimum wage for growth, the SMIC!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u402	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u403	This is not because the law aimed at combating hate content on the Internet, known as the Avia law, has been widely censored by the Constitutional Council...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u404	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u405	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...that you must continue to state fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u406	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u407	I will reply on the only point which interests me, which interests us, which interests future generations: your comments on the civic convention for climate. If I understand what the majority is saying, we should not do anything until the 150 citizens of the convention propose to the President of the Republic their revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u408	But we've already done something!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u409	We should wait, still, for a future referendum to happen. It would make us vacation, but good! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let's get back to the bottom. It seems that you did not listen to what I said earlier: if the President of the Republic instructs the citizens' convention not to address the tax issue, how do you want a proposal of this nature to be formulated?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u410	Yes, that's the taboo subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u411	To respond to the climate emergency, the citizens' convention has just proposed to increase to 28 hours of weekly work. I hope that you will applaud and vote in favour of this measure in the House, so that we in France spend four working days a week. But will you be on the rendezvous? No, of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u412	What about the winegrowers? Answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u413	So don't use the citizens' convention to counter our proposal! Madam Secretary of State, the economic and ecological solidarity tax that we are proposing is intended only to allow everyone to win. Indeed, this reinjected money in the territories will benefit not only the communities and citizens, but also those who will pay the tax, because we are not mistaken: they too will benefit from the economic growth that will be created in the territories and from the new non-relocable activity, thus preserving our national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u414	You propose to tax the work tool of the winemakers, you, the deputy of Bouches-du-Rhône!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u415	In short, in the words of the President of the Republic, it is the foundation of "resilience". We are therefore part of his project, but with adapted tools. So look at things more closely, rather than saying anything! As for the winemakers of Bouches-du-Rhône, they are very well, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u416	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u417	It aims to restore the upper part of the wage tax by taxing the fraction exceeding EUR 152279 at 20%. It is therefore in line with the aim of our colleague Dominique Potier's bill to reduce wage differentials. The abolition of the upper wage tax in 2018 is also part of a long list of measures that have, in a way, weakened our social cohesion. The crisis we are going through today, if it is obviously health-related, is also social, economic and territorial. We are in a period of urgency, but will then come the time to build France according to: like the bill, the restoration of the upper portion of the wage tax calls for fairness and tax and social justice. It is therefore a measure that links today's urgency to tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u418	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u419	Despite my encouragement to vote otherwise, this amendment was rejected in committee. As I pointed out at the committee meeting, at the time of the abolition of the upper part of the wage tax, the Government justified its decision by the need to strengthen France's attractiveness in the context of Brexit. In doing so, Madam Secretary of State, we have embarked on a race at least the so-called fiscal race that ultimately only fuels public impotence. I therefore encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u420	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u421	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u423	Unfavorable opinion. The argument to invoke a race at least so-called tax has its limits: in this case, if we compare with other European countries, such as Germany, which has a good industrial base and whose ecological and social model seems to me quite reasonable, we continue to be the European country that imposes the most on its citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u424	Because you account for social contributions and pensions in compulsory levies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u425	[[Mr. MounirMahjoubiapplaudit]] Moreover, thanks to our actions in the field of attractiveness, we have managed to attract thousands of jobs and to make Paris one of the most attractive places. But the jobs created are all people who consume from our merchants and order from our artisans: I believe that the French and Parisians have understood this well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u426	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u427	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u428	It proposes to introduce a levy of 0.5% on life insurance outstanding in excess of EUR 100000. The amendment we tabled in committee contained a ceiling of EUR 50000, which we have chosen to raise in this amendment. In order to avoid financial transactions aimed at reducing the levy, it is proposed that the scheme be retroactive to 1 June 2020. As of 1 January 2020, life insurance outstanding amounted to EUR 1800 billion. The performance of the measure is therefore not neutral. The amendment proposes to mobilise the solidarity of the most affluent households to co-finance the exceptional effort of the State to combat the consequences of the covid epidemic -19. This tax, which does not affect the purchasing power of households or the competitiveness of businesses, is, in a way, an additional means of redistributing wealth to meet the tax equity issues underlying the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u429	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u430	A virtually identical amendment was rejected in committee. However, the amendment before us has been amended in the light of the comments made at the meeting. The proposed idea seems relevant to me: the average amount of life insurance outstanding for the 10 % of the most affluent households amounts to €66000. However, this customer also accounts for 40% of the outstanding life insurance contracts. The stock of the least affluent 90 % of households is on average EUR 19,000. These figures demonstrate that the targeting of the measure is consistent. In committee, we were accused of a lack of knowledge of the savings of the French. But I think we will agree that by setting the tax threshold at 100,000 euros, we are not targeting the little saver! Maybe you'll tell me that older people have been able to save their entire lives. However, for those over 75, the average amount outstanding is only 65,000 euros. Therefore, and in my personal capacity, I am in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u431	You have taken my remarks into account...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u433	Unfavorable opinion. I understand the idea behind your proposal, but today, the stocks of life insurance contracts are already much lower than before the crisis. For quite obvious reasons, I think the French will appreciate that you are deepening the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u434	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u435	Everyone can agree that life insurance is one of the largest tax niches for individuals in France. Many parliamentary reports have dealt with the subject, particularly during the previous legislature. It therefore seems reasonable to me to look more closely at the taxation of life insurance in order to try to find new balance. We will propose measures to this effect in the context of the next FLP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u436	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u437	It concerns what it is agreed to call the flat tax, this shield of capital. My intervention allows me to bounce back on the words of the Secretary of State: if I have understood correctly, the gifts to the richest, whether it is the abolition of the ISF or the creation of the flat tax, are aimed at ensuring the capital supply of companies so that, I suppose, they can invest. The result is the opposite: the flat tax is not intended to benefit, in one way or another, people who invest, but to allow shareholders to collect more dividends. Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to insult you to explain that dividends are anything but investment: they are the share of shareholders in a company's surplus value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u438	After tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u439	As a result, the more dividends you promote, the more you will encourage a company's senior executives, who can be paid in wages or dividends, to turn to dividends. Wages are subject to tax levies and social contributions: if wages do not go through wages, they will therefore pay less to the community. On the other hand, everything that goes unimpeded in dividends does not go into investments – it is the whole problem of gifts to the richest. A company must have a collective dimension: its purpose cannot be limited to the profits of shareholders. You take advantage of the profits by hoping that those who benefit from it will bring back into the economy the gifts you give them. Look what's really happening: it doesn't work, the theory of runoff is not demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u440	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u441	This amendment is coordinating to remove the provisions on the single flat-rate levy defined after the publication of the Finance Act for 2018. It shall also specify the date of entry into force of Article 2. With regard to the single flat-rate levy, it was said and reiterated earlier that the undistributed surplus-value was a dormant savings – the Secretary of State even confirmed it. No! What is not distributed is not a dormant savings, but is used for self-financing by businesses. A number of truths must be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u443	Unfavorable. The single flat-rate levy does not only concern income from dividends. I would also point out that it is not the employees of the companies who benefit from the dividends, but generally the self-employed or the large shareholders of these companies. I therefore think that there is a fairly general confusion on this subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u444	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Not at all! You don't know anything about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u445	Mr. Coquerel never hired any employees in a company!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u446	Employees rarely own the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u447	Senior executives can have actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u448	Revise your papers, Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u449	Amendment No 5 by Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u450	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, in support of Amendment No 10 on the additional Rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u451	The French income tax system has a mechanism to discourage women from working. In 1945, France made the choice of a compulsory common tax model for married couples, or now pacsés. The tax rate for a couple is then calculated on the average of the two incomes: this is called the marital quotient. If income is different, spouses often have a tax advantage to be in a couple – 60% of the time, according to INSEE. Indeed, with the marital quotient, the total amount of tax paid by the tax home is lower than if the two persons were each considered a tax home: this is a consequence of the progressive tax rate. In a November 2019 document, INSEE showed that 7 million households benefited from a reduction in their income tax due to this famous marital quotient, for an average gain of 1,700 euros. This gain can reach €37500 for the 0.01% of the richest households. Thus, the marital quotient severely undermines the progressivity of income tax, especially since the tax advantage it provides is not capped. The purpose of this amendment is precisely to cap the marital quotient, which would make it possible to strengthen tax escalation by increasing the contribution of the most affluent married or married couples. The setting of a ceiling identical to that of the family quotient, i.e. EUR 3134 per year and per share, would lead to an additional tax revenue of around EUR 3 billion according to the OFCE. This is not neutral! This reform would have the merit of saving the most modest 40 per cent of tax households. The higher the incomes of a married or married couple, the higher the tax, in accordance with the principle of progressivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u453	This amendment aims to cap the marital quotient at EUR 3134 per share for taxpayers subject to joint taxation. We must only touch the marital quotient with a trembling hand; However, it is a debate that must be opened, without any doubt, and I personally support such a measure. The committee, on the other hand, is against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u454	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u455	Indeed, you must have the hand that trembles when you touch the marital quotient! You rightly pointed out, Mr Bricout, that this could be an incentive not to work. I agree with you on this point: it cannot be an objective, and all the obstacles or obstacles to women's work must be removed, because it is rather women who are concerned. However, there are situations where the absence of work is not a choice – I am thinking of people who do not immediately find work, who are ill or who are faced with different situations that may also affect households where the difference in remuneration between spouses is significant but the overall income is modest. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u456	As all the articles and amendments containing the additional article have been rejected, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u457	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Pierre Dharréville and others to introduce a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy (No. 3007, 3078).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u458	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u459	As our country slowly emerges from an unprecedented health crisis, whose waves are barely beginning to strike with all their forces new countries such as Brazil, and while part of the national territory is still subject to containment measures – I am thinking in particular of Guyana, which I represent in our assembly, as well as in Mayotte – there seems to be some certainty on the horizon: our economy will suffer, for several more years, the wave of shock of what is like a real social tsunami ready to take millions of jobs on its way. The latest figures for Pôle emploi are dizzying: between 1 February and 30 April last year, the number of jobseekers in category A, i.e. without any declared employment, increased by more than one million, of which 843,000 in April alone – 22.6% more than in March – to reach the record figure of 4.6 million jobseekers. Disappointed, Madam Minister of Labour, you have already admitted that the unemployment rate will exceed, in the very short term, the symbolic bar of 10%, to light years of the target of 7% set to justify the countless attacks against our labour law and our social protection system. Three quarters of the increase in unemployment is due to the transition to category A of jobseekers enrolled in categories B and C in March, i.e. those with a reduced activity. This particularly affects the sectors that have been most penalized by containment measures, namely hotels, catering, tourism, construction and the entertainment world – the list is long, and I certainly forget about it. Young people are the most affected, with an increase of 29.4 per cent in the number of jobseekers under the age of 25 in April. Unfortunately, this is expected to worsen due to the arrival on the labour market of 700000 young people at the end of their studies or training. Clearly, the cessation of economic activity has penalized the most precarious, the temporary workers or those who had short contracts, which the reform of unemployment insurance had ended to weaken. On the Bercy side, the atmosphere is also bleak, since the Minister of Economy and Finance refers to an extremely brutal economic shock and anticipates a recession of 11% by 2020, well above the 8% envisaged at European level by the European Central Bank. According to the French Economic Observatory, France's GDP decreased by 32% during the period of confinement, to such an extent that the OFCE considers that such a fall in activity has never been observed, except perhaps in time of war. In Guyana and Mayotte, the containment measures still imposed are likely to lead to even more catastrophic local findings. In this context, it is imperative to anticipate the next waves by changing without delay the political orientation adopted since 2017, which has in fact led to the desertion of part of the left wing of the majority and whose effects will only worsen those of the crisis of the coronavirus. If the outright abandonment of the shameful reform of unemployment insurance referred to above appears to be a necessary and non-negotiable prerequisite – as well as the strengthening of employment facilities – this will not suffice. We need new social protections to better protect the most fragile, which must not be sacrificed on the altar of economic reconstruction. In short, there is an urgent need for rapid operational solutions to accompany those who will lose their jobs in the coming months. To do this, we must learn all the lessons of the post-economic crisis of 2008, avoiding the trap of simply social support for the precariousness of work, as was the case at the time. The acceleration of global warming and the awareness of the need to move towards a more sustainable model of society must absolutely motivate new perspectives for the world of work, in connection with the necessary ecological and social changes in our economy. There must be a post-covid, which does not consist of resuming our old consumption habits without long-term vision. This is where the whole bet of the coming months lies: adapting social protection to the new health, social and environmental challenges in order to make rhyme ecological reconstruction with social reconstruction. Clearly, we will have to go through plans for the conversion of jobs and qualifications, which implies a drastic change in the support of employees towards these new skills which are expected, in connection with the evolution of production tools. That is why this proposal for a law by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left aims to lay the foundations for a genuine professional social security in order to maintain the rights of employees between two periods of employment. This will include the creation of a wage-training guarantee, which, on the basis of existing schemes which have largely proved their effectiveness, such as reclassification leave and the occupational security contract, would secure the remuneration of employees for a period of up to 24 months after the economic lay-off, while allowing each beneficiary to train and benefit from either personalized and quality support with a view to returning to employment or vocational retraining in sectors of the future serving the ecological and social transition of the economy. Indeed, the contract of occupational security – CSP – and the reclassification leave are, for the time being, reserved for employees who are dismissed on economic grounds. The CSP, whose concrete implementation arrangements are directly defined by the social partners, is intended for employees who are dismissed from companies with less than 1000 employees. As for reclassification leave, it is intended for employees of enterprises with at least 1000 employees; Unlike the CSP, which receives co-financing, it is fully covered by the employer. Still too little in demand – barely 2% of those registered at the Pôle emploi, for example, with a CSP – these schemes have proved their worth. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics, DARES, two thirds of the beneficiaries of a job security contract have returned to work within 24 months of joining the scheme, of which 40% have a long-term job. That is why, in order to secure the professional transitions of the assets during this period of crisis and to take better account of the challenges of the ecological transition, our bill invites us to broaden the scope of the beneficiaries of the CSP and the reclassification contract. It also proposes to adjust their objectives. Far from ideology, our particular attention to ecological transition as a sector of the future is that it is a potential source of job creation in many areas. This is the case in the building, for example, as housing will need to be further isolated and adapted to the conditions of global warming, particularly in the coastal areas of the West Indies and Réunion. This is also the case in the agricultural sector, in order to move towards more sustainable agriculture, or in biotechnology, in order to accompany the energy transition. By deploying on a large scale the effective mechanism of partial unemployment, which has made it possible to nationalize wages at the height of the crisis – and as a result, part of the potential losses of our businesses – the Government has shown its willingness to avoid social breakdown. That choice should indeed be welcomed. With the wage-training guarantee, we have the opportunity to go further, concretizing and sustaining this will. This must be the counterpart, for employees, of the solutions imagined to accompany the employers, often without any social guarantee, as can be seen with the announced scandal of Renault. Madam Minister, wouldn't this be an opportunity to begin the famous social shift called for up to the most loyal ranks of the majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u460	Faithful, really?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u461	... and clearly indispensable to the national union desired by the President of the Republic? In detail, Article 1 transforms the CSP into a transitional contract accessible to any employee of an enterprise with less than 500 employees who is dismissed on economic grounds or – this is the main novelty – to any employee who has reached the end of a short contract. It also secures the employee's level of compensation to 75 per cent of gross wages and extends the duration of the contract to a maximum of two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u462	This is social progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u463	These new guarantees will enable beneficiaries to turn to longer training and to develop new skills while preserving their income level, in order to consider retraining towards the sectors of activity that are driving the transition of our economy. For enterprises with at least 500 employees, Article 2 transforms reclassification leave into transitional leave, with the same objectives. The accompanying measures put in place under this leave would remain fully covered by the employer. Finally, Article 3 keeps the social partners at the heart of the scheme, by referring to inter-branch negotiations the task of determining the arrangements for accompanying employees to deal with the economic crisis caused by the covid -19 epidemic, as well as the conditions for financing and implementing the contract and the transitional leave. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We are convinced that this bill reflects shared ambitions for the protection of employees and for the transition of our model of society. It seems to us very much in line with the statements of the President of the Republic. Thus, there seems to be no opposition to its adoption, a priori. That is why the Members of the Democratic and Republican Left invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to express your full support for it. In advance, we thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u464	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u465	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-18-O1241.u466	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the introduction of a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to make access to masks free of charge. The meeting is adjourned.
