ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to temporarily reduce the social contributions paid by enterprises in order to gradually replace the partial activity scheme (No 3001, 3058).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u2	Mr Eric Woerth, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u3	The health crisis is the result of the economic crisis and the accompanying social crisis. We planned it, and that's what's happening now. Yesterday, the Bank of France estimated that nearly one million jobs would be destroyed in 2020 and 2021, while the Government is planning to lose 800,000 jobs. Our unemployment rate is expected to exceed 11% and possibly reach 12%. Together, we must do everything we can to cushion the scale of this announced disaster, to do everything possible to avoid a million or a million and a half additional unemployed and repeated social plans in the coming months. I know you agree with me, Madam Minister of Labour. Yesterday, the Government began negotiations with the social partners to define a new medium-term regime for partial activity. There are many thoughts on this subject, and of course I hope that these discussions will be concluded quickly. In the meantime, it is essential to accelerate the resumption of work in all enterprises, beyond the natural return of the largest number of employees to their posts. Employees who are now placed in partial or partial unemployment must return to their jobs: this trend must be accelerated, beyond the natural recovery of growth and the increase in turnover of enterprises, so that the partial unemployed do not turn into short-term unemployed or real unemployed. This is the purpose of this bill, which aims to exempt employers from social security contributions for six months, who would quickly take up their employees. It is necessary to go faster than the course of things, to trigger a virtuous circle, to get out of the "cocoon" – I put quotes – that the partial unemployment, which was a necessary device, represented, to recover the activity faster than it would have returned naturally. This bill is complementary to the definition of a new, degressive framework for partial activity. A temporary incentive to return quickly to employment would act as a catalyst for economic recovery: it would be a starter that could be extinguished when the engine restarted. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, France has approached this historic crisis in a position of relative weakness vis-à-vis its large neighbours. Weak public finances, as its deficit was one of the worst in the euro area in 2019. Weak labour market, since Germany, for example, had an unemployment rate of 3% when we were at 8%. Tomorrow, thanks to the room for manoeuvre that our neighbours had and that we did not have, the shock will be less strong at home; Their response will be stronger and they will return faster. The recession in Germany is expected to reach 7%, compared to 11% in France: it is 100 billion euros of GDP difference in 2020 alone. The rapid implementation of the partial-activity system was an effective emergency measure. This was probably one of the most powerful means of alleviating the shock of the brutal economic halt decided by the State, given the health crisis. He pretty much preserved the income of the French and maintained the link between the companies and their employees. Very generous – even though it has been a little reduced recently – it has covered 8.6 million employees: a third of the assets have thus, de facto, seen its nationalised wage. Apart from its cost, which is not sustainable for public finances – everyone is well aware of it – it now risks becoming the antechamber of social plans. In these circumstances, partial activity does not induce companies to take back their employees, nor does it encourage them to return to work. As far as health is concerned – as elsewhere – there is no zero risk: if partial unemployment was a safety net at the height of the crisis, that is, when the economy was completely shut down, the recovery must not be caught in the meshes of this net. We must act quickly so that partial unemployment does not turn into a trap of real unemployment. The operative part of this bill is an economic recovery accelerator. To give a bonus to the resumption of activity is to speed it up, to amplify it and to launch the signal that France is leaving again. In return for the recovery of a partially unemployed employee, our text introduces a temporary exemption for six months from employers' social security contributions. Lowering the cost of labour through burden reductions is the fastest and most efficient way to boost the economy. It is also a well-known, proven measure that has often been implemented. It's not so bad to do things you know, especially when you don't have time to invent others! The scope of our proposed legislation is the same as that of the Fillon reliefs, which you have helped to expand, Madam Minister, through the transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – and whose effectiveness you are well aware of. Companies will be able to ease their profit and loss account and cash flow very easily through nominal social declarations. The device we offer is obviously universal in scope, mirroring the partial activity device that you extended during the crisis of the covid-19. All companies, without distinction of sector, as soon as they resume their employees in partial unemployment, will be able to have access to it – that is logical. In the same way, it will operate up to the equivalent of 4.5 SMIC, modelled, for the sake of consistency, on the scope of the partial activity that the Government extended during the crisis. More specifically, an employer taking over an employee who had started his partial activity between 1 March and 11 May 2020 – the date of the lifting of the main restrictions and prohibitions of activity related to the confinement of the population – would be exempt from social security employer contributions for a period of six months. In order to encourage employers and employees to leave the partial employment scheme quickly, we propose that the employer be eligible for this social benefit only if he or she takes up his or her employee no later than five working days after the publication of this Act. If you vote in favour of this text, ladies and gentlemen, this time, together with the time spent on the parliamentary shuttle, will enable employers to take all their steps to reintegrate their employees administratively. For certain sectors which have been the subject of extended administrative closure measures beyond 11 May, the scheme is adapted and staggered. By turning about half of the enormous amount of money spent on partial activity into a drop in costs, we are inciting and accompanying the return to work on an ad hoc but extremely vigorous basis. We will be told that it is very expensive, but we will have to stop joking: at present, the billions flow avalanche every week! Of course it's expensive! That is why we propose that the cost of this scheme should be capped at half the cost of partial unemployment. Beyond the EUR 40 billion already spent, the current scheme costs just under EUR 20 billion per month. We propose, for our part, a scheme to reduce the costs which will cost about EUR 25 billion, in the very theoretical assumption that all employees would be reintegrated. I repeat, our scheme is less expensive than partial unemployment. Whatever your efforts, if unemployment increases as is unfortunately planned, I am not sure that you will lift up as quickly as possible the nets of the partial unemployment measures taken in the context of the crisis of the Covid -19, because you will want to avoid social plans as much as possible. Given the power of reality, it is therefore necessary to speed up the return of employees to their businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u4	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u5	I cannot be suspected of being light about public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u6	It's even the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The only good way to spend public money is to ensure, in the long term and with maximum efficiency, our collective prosperity by promoting wealth creation. From this point of view, I have fairly accurate memories of the 2008 crisis and the measures taken by the government at the time. Some who had criticized their cost in good weather have come back to more humility – the one that is now imposed on us by events. Relaunching our economy as quickly as possible and avoiding an additional 1 million unemployed will cost less than doing nothing or adapting emergency measures for a return to normal – a solution that would prove insufficient. Accelerating the growth and transformation of our economy requires much more powerful measures than you are now considering. We want to put a tiger in the engine, as it was said at one time, otherwise the French economy will suffer huge and cruel setbacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u8	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u9	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for having included two proposals for employment laws as the first item on the agenda of its niche, at a time when the health crisis is turning into an economic and social crisis – we are already seeing the first effects and we can fear much greater effects. The proposal for a law that you have just presented, Mr rapporteur, aims at temporarily reducing the social contributions borne by companies in order to gradually replace the partial activity scheme. We will be debating Mr. Guillaume Peltier's proposal for a two-year "zero burden" scheme for the employment of young people under 25 years of age. The examination of these texts will allow us to continue the discussions initiated during the discussion of the various emergency laws adopted by Parliament. I look forward to discussing employment, a project against a project, which, as you know, has been my priority and that of the Government for the past three years. Yes, stimulating the growth of our economy so that it is rich in jobs while allowing everyone to emancipate through work is at the heart of the project defended by the President of the Republic and the Government. The economic situation we are experiencing and the black clouds that we are witnessing further reinforce the importance of this subject. The results of the structural measures we had taken were already palpable. I would remind you that almost one million jobs had been created since May 2017 and that the unemployment rate had been 8.1% of the labour force, at the lowest level we had seen since the end of 2008. In 24 departments, it was already below the 7 per cent mark. It was February 13, 2020, almost four months ago – a time so close and at the same time so distant, as the maps were abruptly rebuffed, not because of France's structural failures, which we had gradually repaired, but because the health crisis forced us to stop the economy to protect the French and French. I believe that everyone has understood this and that everyone has supported us, but we must now act vigorously in the field of employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u10	If we'd had masks...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u12	The first effects of confinement on employment are beginning to be assessed. As you have seen, half a million jobs were destroyed in the first quarter. In addition, containment has resulted in the non-renewal of acting and short-term contracts. There is a need to understand the current situation: the decline in short-term employment has been extremely strong. Thus, in April, the number of category A jobseekers increased by 843,000 compared to the previous month. This historical rise in unemployment, after an equally historic decline, is not due, for the moment, to plans for redundancies, but to the drastic reduction in hiring, especially for the most precarious contracts. The estimates of the Banque de France, the Direction de l'animation, de la recherche, des études et des statistiques – DARES – and the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – INSEE converge: the unemployment rate is expected to reach a peak of about 11.5 % by mid-2021, a level higher than we have known for a long time. The question of employment is therefore tenfold. We must act quickly, forcefully, in a targeted and effective manner. We are all aware of this challenge and its major impact on the lives of our fellow citizens. That is why the Government has taken very quickly, as you had authorized, measures to accompany companies and employees, to limit business failures and to avoid the waves of redundancies that occur outside our borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u13	The layoffs are still going to take place!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u14	These include a renovated, amplified, universalised and never-known partial-activity scheme, state-guaranteed loans and carry-overs. In this connection, I would like to commend the tireless work of the agents of the State and my ministry, which has allowed us to extend in a few days a partial scheme of activity which has so far benefited as much as possible to 300,000 protected employees, to nearly 12 million employees in the private sector and to one million enterprises, on the basis of a principle of confidence a priori which obviously does not exclude a demanding control. I believe that we have done well to set up such a massive shield, with the support of all the benches in this House. With the debunking, we entered a new phase. The challenge is to recover – under health conditions that guarantee the protection of workers – the fastest and most important possible economic activity, and thus the preservation of employment. In this phase of accompanying the return to normal, the protocols we have put in place to protect the health of workers are essential since they were the condition of recovery. As you said, Mr rapporteur, the state cannot pay the wages of millions of workers in the private sector for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u15	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u16	This situation is quite exceptional and this shield is necessarily short-term. The question now is how to speed up recovery while accompanying businesses and employees and protecting job seekers. Removing this safety net brutally and uniformly would put down the protective effect of our collective effort; This would condemn our businesses and jobs in many sectors without appeal. It is clear that the recovery is very different from one sector to another and our responses must take these differences into account. The safety net will gradually evolve to enable us to emerge from the crisis in a sustainable manner. Since 1 June, companies in most sectors have contributed 15% to the financing of the scheme, which is an incentive to take up business. However, we continue to protect the sectors hardest hit by the crisis, particularly as a result of administrative closures, in particular the hotels, restaurants, culture, sports and related sectors that depend almost exclusively on it. For these sectors, until the end of September we continue to take over 100% of the partial activity by the State and UNEDIC. In this phase of recovery, the economic constraints on companies may lead to trade-offs that are detrimental to employment. We share the view that the return to full activity cannot always be immediate or even rapid: several months or even several years may be necessary, depending in particular on the length of production cycles. Thus, if day-to-day service activities have already gone very far, sectors such as aeronautics and automobiles will need time to return to full activity, in a context marked by a transformation of the economic model. Everything must be done to accelerate and amplify the recovery. At the request of the President of the Republic, I have been conducting intensive consultations since Tuesday with the social partners and will continue for the next eight days. Employment and all the measures necessary to support it will be at the centre of these discussions. It is also the meaning of the emergency measures to support learning that I announced last week: given the seasonality of the recruitment of apprentices, they will come into force on 1 July. In view of this, you propose the exemption of all employers' social contributions of legal and conventional origin, with the exception of contributions paid to the occupational accidents and diseases branch, when employees cease to be in a partial position of activity within five days of the publication of the law, extended to 30 days for those sectors which are still subject to regulatory measures for the closure of establishments. First of all, we have already removed almost all the employers' burdens on the lowest wages: the scheme you are proposing would therefore have no effect on the jobs most vulnerable to the crisis. To this general solution, already used in other contexts of crisis, we prefer more focused, concerted and more demanding mechanisms in terms of maintaining employment over time. Of course, in this unique pandemic context, most companies have had to slow down or even stop their activity, but the recovery, as I said, is extremely differentiated according to the nature of the activity and the impact of the health constraints to which they are subjected. Most companies – I meet with business leaders every day – want to resume their business fully. The brakes are therefore not psychological but practical: they are due to the market, the organisation, the health constraints and their impact on productivity. If they want to return to full activity, it is because it is in the long run the only real protection against business failures and unemployment. But most companies are not able, with or without the help of the State, to move from one day to the next from a zero activity to a full and full activity, hence the usefulness of the partial activity scheme. We have made it possible for the scheme to be individualised by branch agreement in order to guarantee the greatest flexibility and give the maximum chance of recovery. The wide variety of difficulties faced by enterprises requires targeted sectoral policies. In addition to the plans we have already announced for automobiles, air and technology will come plans for building, retail and crafts. According to the announcements of the President of the Republic, article 18 of the third draft law on amending finance – PLFR – adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers, provides for the cancellation of €3 billion of employer social security contributions, but there also targeted. Its implementation procedures – exemption, credit for contributions, remission or discharge of debts – were set out in detail yesterday by my colleagues Bruno Le Maire, the Minister of Economy and Finance, and Gérald Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, before the committee that you chair, rapporteur. I stress the unprecedented nature of this measure, which will enable the tourism, hospitality, catering, culture, events, sport and non-food retail sectors to reduce their social liabilities very quickly and massively so that these SMEs and the TPEs can resume their activities with serenity, without having the knife under their throats. Beyond the leverage of these massive but targeted contribution schemes, it is necessary to put in place new mechanisms to preserve employment and skills in the coming phase. They are designed to adjust the capacity to produce or deliver services to a declining demand, limiting economic and social costs while preserving employment and skills during this period of decline in activity. During the discussion of the draft law on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, we proposed to Parliament to create the legislative framework for a specific partial activity scheme set up by collective or branch agreement and which may be of long duration. Introduced into the Senate and then refined into a joint joint committee, this arrangement was finally adopted yesterday by the Senate. As I said last Thursday at the end of the meeting of the social partners around the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I started consultations so that this system of long-term partial activity would be fully operational as of 1 July. On that date, a collective or branch agreement may specify the employees concerned and define the reductions in the working hours which give rise to compensation, as well as the specific commitments entered into in return, in particular for the maintenance of employment. I recall that the 2017 Labour Orders, which you have ratified, have considerably expanded the scope of social dialogue. In this spirit, it is necessary to continue to rely firmly on social dialogue, to give all means to the social partners, in companies and industries, to take measures that will allow maximum recovery of activity, while protecting the jobs of those who cannot yet rework full-time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is for all these reasons, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government, while welcoming the intention behind the drafting of this bill, cannot support its adoption, which does not seem to the Government to be the right answer to a very good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u17	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u18	In the general debate, Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u19	The consequences of the health crisis in the global economy are being and will be felt in many registers. It is a sectoral crisis, sec torized, whose consequences are not yet known. The bill allows us to address an essential topic for the future: economic recovery. The government's system of partial unemployment has been an important lever in the crisis of coronavirus, the figures show: as of 25 May, 12.9 million employees benefited from the scheme and more than 1 million companies used it. Honesty requires that it be recognized that it has kept businesses on course and maintained them throughout the containment period. For the economy, saving businesses is like saving lives for medicine, but just as the patient must one day be able to get out of resuscitation in order to regain respiratory autonomy and return to his familiar surroundings, a company cannot remain permanently hooked to the partial unemployment scheme. The High Council for Public Finance plans, if I recall the figures it quoted yesterday morning, 1.2 million fewer jobs in 2020...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u21	... – we are already 880,000 fewer jobs for this year – and INSEE is planning a million fewer jobs by 2021. The figures are catastrophic, especially considering certain social but also societal impacts that must be avoided. If it is necessary today to transform a scheme that costs EUR 25 billion, it is not only because of its impact on public finances. Let us not keep companies that have been able to resume their activity under infusion if we are to prevent partial unemployment from becoming an adjustment variable in the long run, which is neither its purpose nor its objective. The proposal for a law of the Republican Group, defended by Eric Woerth, who is also chairman of the Finance Committee, aims to transform this partial unemployment scheme into a significant reduction in the cost of work by exempting employers' social security contributions for six months from the start of work. The conditions for implementation are simple: the employee must be back in the company for an effective resumption of work within five days of the enactment of the law. In order to avoid financial drift, the reduction is capped at 4.5 SMIC, which is the same ceiling as the partial unemployment scheme. This provision would allow for a revival of economic activity. In addition, it would ensure that the know-how and technical skills of all employees of French companies are maintained. This would allow companies to launch new projects to broaden the scope of their production, innovate and even allow their employees to train. It's an investment for the future, Minister. As you can see, we are pragmatic. Our proposal is in the direction of dynamic accompaniment. By the third PLFR that the Government presented to us yesterday, it pursues its policy of supporting the economy but does not open any prospect of recovery, if not, like the Minister of the Economy Bruno The Mayor repeated it yesterday before the committee, with the offer. How many PLFRs will we have to present ourselves in order to give our economy a new perspective? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We have chosen another path: that of reviving through activity and encouraging employment. I ask you to reflect on this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u23	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u24	The health crisis that we have just experienced has been a major blow to our economy. The forecasts predict an unprecedented decline in GDP of 11%. To deal with this, support measures of an unprecedented scale, admittedly, have been proposed to companies: 100 billion euros have been allocated to state-guaranteed loans, 4 billion to the solidarity fund, 3 billion to carry forward charges and 25 billion to partial unemployment. However, the shutdown of a large part of the economy due to containment has resulted in – and will continue to result in – several thousand cessations of activity. At the same time, the number of category A unemployed rose by 22.6% in April, due to the non-renewal of short contracts and a lack of hiring. Unemployment, which had reached its lowest level since 2008, at 8.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, could thus exceed 10 per cent by 2021. While the debt generated by the health situation and business support will have a lasting impact on public accounts, we can hope that the deterioration in employment will be shorter, given the scale of the support measures already deployed, some of which will continue in the coming months. However, the situation remains very worrying and does not augur well for the coming months. Beyond the preservation of employment, a comprehensive and ambitious recovery plan will obviously be necessary to reinvigorate the momentum and create a dynamic of employment, especially for the youngest of our fellow citizens. Your proposal for a temporary exemption from charges aims at a twofold objective: on the one hand, to take over a partial activity scheme intended to be extinguished, on the other hand, to encourage companies and employees to resume a normal pace of work. With regard to this first objective, the Government has created a specific system of long-term partial activity, through which companies that will not quickly return to full activity will be able to retain their employees. It could extend for up to two years, corresponding to the duration of your proposal, and will focus on sectors facing lasting difficulties such as tourism, aeronautics and automobiles. The State will once again be at the meeting, bearing in mind part of the loss of employees' income due to the reduction in their working time. At the same time, employers who propose this measure under a collective agreement will have to commit themselves to maintaining jobs. This is a first response to the concerns you express in your text; It has the advantage of involving the social partners in the development of the scheme. Your second objective is to promote the full resumption of activity. To this end, you propose exemptions from temporary charges targeted at employees who would be rehired after being protected by partial unemployment. While the measure may seem attractive because of its ease of implementation, it does not seem to us to be a guarantee of job security, since it would automatically apply to all enterprises, regardless of their situation and sector of activity. Without a detailed impact assessment and without specific targeting, your proposal carries many risks of creating a bounty effect. In the face of the upcoming crisis, we cannot simply provide partial answers, lacking overall coherence. A simple measure to reduce the cost of labour, covering a very wide area, will solve nothing. Burden exemptions can be an interesting lever, but they need to be considered in the context of global stimulus and investment schemes. A recovery plan is expected for the new year. Consultations are already under way between the Government and representatives of companies and employees to discuss ways to safeguard jobs and sustain professional skills. In addition, last week's Learning Support Plan, which we all hope will continue the excellent momentum seen over the past two years. Like you, rapporteur, we are aware of the urgent need to act. We can't blame you for not proposing anything. However, we believe that the situation requires not an isolated and too little targeted measure, but a clear and concerted road map.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u25	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u26	Therefore, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u27	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u28	With the bill that you are presenting this morning, Mr rapporteur, you want to transform the partial activity scheme into a reduction of contributions for all salaries below 4.5 times the SMIC and for a period of six months, i.e. an invoice of some 20 billion euros. In fact, we know, for having often listened to you, that you want to reduce social contributions and you see today a new opportunity to propose such a measure, as you do frequently in our debates. However, you do not specify how the shortfall in social security funds will be compensated. I can admit that this is not a priority in the current context, but that would have been interesting. Let us not mix the two issues of labour costs and business resumption. The mechanism of partial activity is intelligent, since it allows employees to remain in employment, and therefore to preserve skills in enterprises. It is socially and economically relevant. However, the end of this system must be organised. You propose to do it by whistle, over six months, with reductions in contributions. For our part, we believe that it would be preferable to maintain a partial activity targeted at activities that cannot be restarted. This involves adopting a surgical vision, taking advantage of the data produced by DARES in particular, rather than acting by large sector. We must therefore start a second phase, which is more complex because it is more targeted. Let us take the aviation industry, for which the Government announced a support plan last Tuesday. Among the proposals contained in this plan, only one is not quantified, evaluated or subject to the condition: the partial activity. The DARES website indicates that three sectors concentrate half of the requests for prior authorization for partial activity: construction, trade, and specialized scientific and administrative support service activities. Construction is recovering. The situation of retail trade, including catering, raises a real issue, which I hope the Government has seized. Finally, many service activities result from orders placed by other sectors; I can therefore only invite the Government to give us a precise analysis, sector by sector, taking into account the side effects: companies whose sector is not restarting will obviously not be seeking advice. These chain reactions need to be analysed, which is not the case today. Secondly, we recommend training rather than layoff. By way of illustration, the plan launched by the Occitanie region makes it possible to offer training to each employee in partial employment; This time is therefore being used to acquire new skills. The third aspect of our proposals, which our colleagues will probably not approve, concerns assisted jobs. Since the beginning of the legislature, you have been brandishing a totem: their removal. More than 400,000 assisted jobs have been created in the last two legislatures, proof that there is no question here of defending an ideology, but of promoting the entry into employment of part of the population. Your finance bills limit assisted job creation to 100,000. However, as DARES indicates, assisted employment inflows remain at a low level. In other words, you don't even reach the very low target you set. We've got to give a boost, minister! The number of career paths skills, or PEC, new milling of assisted jobs, is 64% lower than in 2019. In this area, you have the hand, and the bill will not amount to 20 billion euros: it will be twenty times less. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, we need a dashboard specifying the overall cost of the provisions. We must have a vision of the costs of unemployment, of partial activity and of employment support, in order to carry out a consolidated steering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u29	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u30	The health crisis has had the consequences we know; We must do everything we can to prevent it from becoming an economic and social disaster. Your proposal for a law aims at temporarily exempting employers from social security contributions employers who will undertake to take back their employees until then in partial unemployment, no later than five working days after the publication of the law. The objective is legible: to lower the cost of work; It is also commendable: to support the recovery of the economy through the return of employees to work. If we share Mr.Eric Woerth's willingness to start a quick return to normal, one thing must be said: this recovery is not for tomorrow. The economic consequences of the health crisis will be severe; In order to limit them, we must accompany each of the actors who make up our society. Let us acknowledge this, the partial activity scheme has helped to amortize the effects of the fall in activity during this unprecedented crisis; It has helped to safeguard many companies threatened by the brutal cessation of the economy. If the interest of partial unemployment is no longer to be proved, its cost to public finances deserves our full clarity: it would exceed 24 billion euros. As the spread of the virus is likely to slow down, but caution is required with regard to a possible second wave, we need to consider a gradual exit from the partial activity device. The Government committed it by reducing the partial coverage of the activity by 15 per cent as at 1 June 2020. However, a brutal, too rapid and uniform exit is to be banished: it would bring a fatal blow to certain companies already very fragile by the crisis of the covid-19. On the contrary, an adequate and moderate exit would prevent partial unemployment from becoming permanent unemployment. Your bill recommends a temporary exemption from social contributions. During the discussion of the second amending finance bill for 2020, my group and I, like others, proposed to cancel the costs incurred by companies during confinement. Had it been adopted, this proposal would have led to recovery and a much faster return to investment. Created last week, the reduced activity scheme for job retention, intended for companies facing a reduction in sustainable activity, seems to me an interesting exit path. The State will partially compensate for the loss of earnings of employees caused by the reduction in time and work, and employers will make commitments to maintain employment. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] I regret that the measures in the proposed law are offered equally to all companies, whereas the diversity of situations requires differentiated and adapted aid. The IDU and Independent Group will present an amendment to ensure that exemptions from employer contributions are granted only to certain very small enterprises. Indeed, the resources of social security would be further aggravated by an exemption offered without distinction to all employers who would put an end to partial unemployment. We would then widen the social security budget deficit, which currently stands at EUR 54 billion. Nevertheless, all initiatives aimed at lowering labour costs, stimulating recovery and helping the economy to rebound are welcome. Your bill remains to be finalized, but has the merit of being presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u31	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u32	If the epidemic of covid-19 shows signs of slowing down, at least temporary, we are only beginning to measure the damage it has caused in different parts of our society, starting with the economy. Last March, in the face of this unprecedented crisis, the Government decided to impose containment on almost all the population. This has resulted in a significant reduction in our economic activity, ultimately forcing us to choose between the latter and our health. In the short term, this decision has made it possible to avoid the saturation of the health system and, above all, to limit the already extremely high number of victims, but we can already foresee major long-term damage, on the health of those who have postponed their care or who have not been detected in time, as well as on the economy and employment, with the explosion of unemployment and poverty. The threat of a lasting social crisis must prompt us to take ambitious, fair and supportive measures today. The Libertés et Territoires Group deplores the state in which our companies are located and fears the impact this economic halt will have on employment. In April alone, more than 840,000 additional jobseekers have already been identified. Deployed in the midst of a crisis, the partial activity scheme was more than beneficial. It has helped to maintain a link between employers and employees, and to safeguard know-how and employment. However, it cannot be long-term: partial unemployment must not become real and permanent unemployment. The breakdown and slowing down of the epidemic over the last few weeks invites us to adapt the partial activity scheme and to accompany the resumption of work. However, this must be done with caution, because the epidemic is not behind us. The Academy of Medicine even invites us to consider its possible resumption in the autumn. As well, while we understand its interest, this bill raises several questions and concerns within our group. First of all, the exemptions from social contributions up to 4.5 SMIC leave us puzzled: this will weigh on the social security accounts, which are already very fragile by the health crisis. Secondly, if we consider it necessary to return to work, it must not be done to the detriment of the health and safety of employees. The emergence of multiple homes in the workplace in recent weeks should encourage caution. In addition, security measures are sometimes difficult to implement and represent a significant cost to employers. Therefore, the five-day deadline provided for in the text seems to us to be very short; It would not allow companies time to organize and equip themselves. To support the recovery, greater attention should be paid to occupational medicine, in order to minimise the epidemic risk and protect the health of employees. Finally, we consider it necessary to give priority to social dialogue. However, the bill is based on a unilateral decision of the employer. Our group believes that the current period requires rapid but adapted and sustainable responses, by branch and sector, involving the social partners. That is why we are looking forward to much of the work that the Government is doing with the trade unions, which should lead to a new system of long-term partial activity. It is not only a matter of reviving activity, but also of accompanying companies and their employees in the long term, faced with a decline in sustainable activity. We are therefore waiting for the Government to announce this – and we will be vigilant and demanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u33	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u34	The purpose of this bill is to promote the recovery of the economy. In order to achieve this, the authors rely on a vague idea: they want to make exemptions from social security contributions. The beneficiaries would be employers whose employees would resume full-time work within five days of the enactment of the Act. This device is a matter of magical thought. First, this is tantamount to considering that resuming full-time work is a question of incentive or goodwill. That's not true and, in a way, it's insulting. This is not true, since the resumption of activity is first of all a health issue and a question of order books. This is insulting, because those who are partially or totally unemployed are not lazy. The studies on fraud published at the end of the confinement are very clear on this point: employees, as well as civil servants, are not "pull-in-flanc" or "pull-in-flanc" – to use the particularly odious term recently used by a member of the Ministry of National Education to designate teachers. Instead, employees were the instruments or even the victims of fraud bosses who benefited from the State's largesses: at least a quarter of employees were unduly kept in business at the expense of the State by their employers. Therefore, they will have no difficulty in returning them to work, since they had not ceased to be there! Exempting contributions from such employers when their employees return to business is simply a reward for fraud. Inciting the resumption of activity by exemption from contributions is also an imbalance in the social accounts. This is a purely ideological measure, which aims to weaken the social protection system so that it can then be said that it is ineffective. Who wants to kill his dog accuses him of rage; Who wants to privatize social protection organizes his bankruptcy! In order to protect small businesses and boost the economy, the opposite should be done. Public money should be used, not to weaken social protection, but to compensate directly for the loss of profits of those who had to close shop during confinement. You want to support small businesses, avoid a massive shipwreck? So do we! Do not exempt employers from social contributions, because contributions are not charges, they are fully part of the wage and are therefore entitled to return to the producers of wealth, the workers. Instead, cancel the burdensome expenses of small businesses, which are the real expenses; cancel the rents of all the small traders who had only 1200 euros to survive, while their lease cost them as much, if not more. And if you want the state to take over the rents rather than the owners themselves, we are ready to discuss it. Everything will be better than depriving workers of the fruits of their work. It is a matter of justice and economic efficiency. In the face of the crisis, it is necessary to ensure that demand is solvent and, for this, the State must take the initiative by launching major ecological works: thermal renovation of buildings, maintenance and redeployment of water, heat, energy and transport networks. The State can and must also secure workers by titularizing individual contractors in the civil service. To return to your initial idea, Mr rapporteur, that employees would need to be forced to return to work, I say to you: there are many reasons not to resume full time. First, the health precautions imposed by the epidemic must be respected. Some pay a bonus to workers who take risks. As a result of absurdity, this text benefits employers who are uninterested in the health of their employees! Then, to return to full-time work, one must be able to entrust one's children to a school or a crèche. However, the recommendations of the Ministry of National Education do not allow this. On 8 June, while 90 per cent of schools had reopened, only 26 per cent of students were in regular school. Many town halls are asking parents to find alternatives to schooling. It was the Government's responsibility to have wanted schools to adapt at all costs, rather than the world of work. However, the need for de-unification should have led to higher levels of unemployment and to the conclusion that compensated partial unemployment is in fact the prefiguration of a necessary reduction in working time. Instead of encouraging a full-time resumption, it would be better to direct the appropriations towards the resumption of the activities of those who are completely unemployed. In this way, we would support domestic demand and reinvigorate activity. This is little or no evidence of what the New Zealand Prime Minister decided by introducing the four-day week. The reduction in working time is also of ecological interest, since it eliminates a day of travel between home and workplace. It also allows sharing work with those who are unemployed; It would therefore reduce unemployment. In short, it would rebalance the sharing of value between capital and labour – but, of course, that is what is unbearable to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u35	What an exaggeration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u36	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u37	The bill before us today may seem commendable if it is to protect our citizens from unemployment and the social crisis resulting from the economic crisis. We can understand the logic of accompanying companies that are heavily affected by this crisis, beyond the first steps taken in an emergency. It is clear that the economic and social impact of the health crisis will be far greater than anything we have had since the last century. Nevertheless, in view of the efforts already made, this measure seems to us to be somewhat excessive. Indeed, companies have already received a number of aid in this particular period, without any counterpart: the creation of the solidarity fund, to the tune of more than EUR 4 billion, the State-guaranteed loan, which represents more than EUR 87 billion, the postponement of fiscal deadlines, for more than EUR 4 billion, and various recovery plans, for example in the aeronautics and tourism sectors, which we regretted yesterday, as did the President of the High Council for Public Finance, that they were not included in the third draft law on amending finance. I believe that both the Government and parliamentarians have shown a great deal of appreciation and support for business and employment at this particular time. If this support was necessary, let us not forget that the financing of the partial unemployment scheme was made possible by social contributions. It is this social shock that has prevented our country from experiencing a situation similar to that experienced by the United States. The need to accompany the return of our citizens to employment should not lead us to pursue short-term policies and to favour front-end solutions at the risk of continuing to unblock our social system and further degrade our public finances – I will not dwell on your pledge. For our part, we prefer to provide immediate funding for measures to support a more sustainable and responsible economy, for example through a renewed taxation of the wealthiest and the largest companies. For all these reasons, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u38	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u39	The health crisis that we are going through has many repercussions: on the health of some French people in the first place, on the organisation of our lives, on human relations and, of course, on the economy. Economists agree to predict one of the most serious crises in history. According to the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – France is expected to suffer a sharp recession in 2020, with a fall in GDP of between 11% and 14%. This significant contraction will obviously have an impact on employment. The Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, the OFCE, estimates that more than 1.8 million employees have been directly affected by the containment and administrative closure measures. We must therefore fear massive unemployment. The number of unemployed has already increased by 7% in March, a month which was only partially affected by confinement. Unfortunately, the figures continue to rise. Pôle Emploi indicates that the number of category A jobseekers increased by 22% in April, or an additional 843,000 unemployed compared to March. The number of unemployed is said to be the highest since the beginning of 1996 in the series: 4575500. The scale of the crisis is such, the economic shock so deep that the forecasts suggest that in the coming months we will see the elimination of 800,000 jobs, i.e. 2.8 % of total employment, said yesterday the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to the Finance Committee. To realize the scale and severity of the earthquake produced by the Coronavirus epidemic and containment measures, remember that it took three years of growth, between 2017 and 2019, for the French economy to create the equivalent of 800,000 jobs. On Tuesday, the Bank of France estimated that the unemployment rate should exceed 10% by the end of 2020 and rise to more than 11.5% by mid-2021, a level never seen. In the face of this economic earthquake, which will lead to a social earthquake, we must take measures to the height. A massive public accompanying policy plan must be implemented, without forgetting anyone or any sector. This is what the Government has done by developing, from the beginning of the confinement, the partial unemployment scheme and, more recently, by announcing support for apprenticeship, in order to help maintain and access employment for young people, who will be the ones most affected by unemployment, as well as a possible reduction in contributions for enterprises. The bill we are looking at this morning aims to temporarily reduce the social contributions of companies in order to gradually replace the partial activity scheme for six months after the date of recovery. It is therefore a matter of exiting from the system designed in and for the emergency, a mechanism which has borne fruit and under which almost one third of the employees of the private sector are taken over by the public authorities. If this arrangement were necessary, it cannot be denied that there have unfortunately been some windfall effects and that it has a certain cost to public finances; It cannot therefore continue as it is. Economic actors see the need to return quickly to traditional forms of employment, while at the same time protecting themselves against the transformation of partial unemployment into total unemployment. We must look for ways to maintain social cohesion, which is one of the foundations of work for all. You have chosen to be in line with the arrangements put in place so far to ensure economic recovery and to prevent our country from sinking into a lasting recession and mass unemployment, by proposing an exemption from charges in order to speed up the return to work under normal pay conditions. You propose that this new device should have a similar scope to that of the partial activity device. If we adhere to the principle of a reduction in burdens, the way in which this bill declines requires a number of reflections. The main challenge is the automaticity of the device. In times of crisis, is it not better to accompany companies and sectors experiencing the most difficulties? Isn't this automaticity going to have a boon effect? Moreover, why not include in this proposal those companies which, because their activity has resumed, have left the partial activity scheme, but whose situation is still fragile? At a time when economic activity is gradually resuming, this text has the merit of raising relevant issues, in particular that of the partial activity scheme, a safety net that has safeguarded employment and skills within companies. It is now necessary to lift this system, to anticipate its gradual extinction. The process is also under way: a system of long partial activity has thus been provided for companies in certain sectors which cannot resume normal activity. The whole is based on a strengthened social dialogue, which we advocate. The response to the crisis cannot be unique. It must be sectoral: this is the reason for plans for tourism, culture, the automotive industry and air transport. I would add that maritime transport, which is totally frozen by the crisis, should also be able to benefit from a plan, because its situation is very complicated. The third amending finance bill, which is to be announced, will have to include further measures, particularly in the area of learning, in order to prevent a generation from being sacrificed. Again, the Group of the European People's Party supports the spirit of this text; but automaticity cannot be the rule, nor the absence of social dialogue, the solution. We want measures in favour of companies, but within a framework other than that of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u40	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u41	Our country is probably facing the biggest economic crisis in its history, in the words of the World Bank. The health crisis has led to the brutal cessation of our economy. The Government's initial responses to the private sector, including the partial unemployment scheme, were necessary to preserve jobs in this unprecedented context. We must now think of how best to support our fellow citizens in the face of another crisis, economic this time, whose first effects we perceive. Unemployment is exploding: there were 22% more jobseekers in April. Young people, workers with precarious contracts, are the first to suffer the shock, before the likely deployment of many social plans. Employees who will lose their jobs should not be left at the edge of the road; priority must be given to providing them with a replacement income and for this, before any other measure, to abolish the reform of the unemployment insurance of 2019, which prevents workers from being compensated, when we are experiencing a shortage of jobs. All trade union organisations ask for this. At the same time, it is essential to keep our production apparatus and save current jobs. In order to meet this challenge, medium- and long-term solutions must be found, under the impetus of the public authorities. Indeed, the crisis we are experiencing is likely to last for years, at least until 2022, as recognized this week by the Governor of the Bank of France. The bill from the Republican Group that we are considering today is trying to move in that direction. It aims to reduce the social contributions paid by enterprises for six months, in order to gradually relay the partial activity scheme which the Government set up during the health crisis, but which it reduced in June, by reducing the State's coverage of wages. Of course, in this context of economic crisis, support measures must be taken quickly in favour of employees, but we do not agree with the solution called for in this text. Support for enterprises and job creation cannot be reduced to a further exemption from employer contributions, which would prolong the Government's offer policy. The decline in the so-called cost of labour has never been a relevant response to support employment. As long as the companies' order books are empty, such a measure may even lead to a boon effect, down from its ambition: to support the resumption of economic activity. We believe, on the contrary, that only stimulus policies driven by the public authorities will make it possible to get out of this crisis and avoid massive social plans in the coming months. This demand support policy cannot, however, dispense with an essential reflection on the sectors to be accompanied as a matter of priority: health, transport, agriculture or the industries involved in ecological conversion. Such a strategy could go hand in hand with a reduction in working time, the only recent measure that has proved its effectiveness in creating or safeguarding jobs in our country. Above all, we are opposed to a new, even temporary, exemption measure that would further weaken the financing of social security at a time when health and social needs are growing. Everyone knows on these banks that the health crisis has put a severe strain on social accounts, whose deficit will amount to 52 billion euros in 2020, compared to 5 billion initially planned. Even before the outbreak of the epidemic, the financing of social security suffered from a draining of revenue organized by the Government as a result of the financial laws. The social benefits for companies already amount to €70 billion a year, of which €22 billion is for the CICE alone, which has been transformed into a reduction in contributions. These are all holes in the recipes. Before creating new measures, those which exist should be accompanied by conditions of employment or ecological commitment. In short, in the current context, a new measure of social exemption seems to us to have to be both economically inefficient and dangerous for the financing of social protection. For these two reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u42	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u43	Mr Woerth, we agree that the support of companies in post-conflict situations is a major challenge. We are working to address this, because the economic and social consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19, which are becoming clearer every day, will be unprecedented. In this connection, allow me once again to express my deep appreciation and that of the parliamentary majority for the Government, which has thrown all its forces into the battle. During the confinement, he took measures of enormous magnitude, enriched by the Assembly. For example, EUR 110 billion has been invested in carry-overs and in the solidarity fund for the very small enterprises, the self-employed and the liberal professions. Since 1 March, 13 million employees have been covered by a demand for partial activity, an essential mechanism to save our jobs and retain our skills. The French State was exemplary in playing this protective role during the crisis. Companies are aware of this: they thank us for the joint action of the Government and the Parliament. Today we have entered a new phase, that of the resumption of activity, where public policies continue to play a crucial role in supporting businesses and reviving our economy. Again, safeguarding jobs and skills within companies is a major challenge. Mr rapporteur, in this text you are proposing an incentive to return to work, aimed at companies that put an end to the partial unemployment of their employees, in the form of an exemption from social security contributions for six months. We receive this proposal with interest, because, I repeat, we share your concern and your desire to accompany companies in this difficult time. Nevertheless, your text is imperfectly responding to needs. The measure would apply equally to all sectors, without considering the specificities and situation of each. These widespread exemptions would be very expensive and would generate many bounty effects. You say that the billions are flowing in an avalanche: I am surprised that you are making an argument,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u44	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u45	...because, in these times of major crisis, it seems essential to us, on the contrary, to properly target investment and aid, in order to allow massive efforts where they are necessary and thus to ensure that they are as efficient as possible. This is the approach taken by the Government with the assistance and support of our majority. By choosing to activate targeted schemes, by deploying massive stimulus plans in the most affected sectors, not to mention suppliers and subcontractors in these sectors, and by promoting large-scale enterprise or branch agreements aimed at maintaining employment for those sectors that will experience a sustained decline in activity, the Government is using compact means. There will be exemptions, but they will also be differentiated according to needs. They are intended for companies with up to 250 employees in culture, performing arts, sport, tourism, hotels and catering, as well as for all companies with fewer than 10 employees who were forced to close during confinement. For others, exemptions will also be possible on a case-by-case basis in order to adapt to each situation. Sectoral stimulus plans are included in the third amending finance bill: 18 billion for tourism, 8 billion for the automotive industry, 3 billion for culture, and 15 billion for air transport. Horticulture, construction and public works, technological enterprises are also the subject of special attention and associated financial investments, each with a component dedicated to modernisation and sustainable development, which will put these sectors on the track of the future. At European level, a new recovery plan is being prepared to coordinate the various national strategies to give them more impact. Finally, youth employment is a priority; In particular, the State will take charge of the first year of training for future apprentices. The revival of the activity that we organize hand in hand with the Government is massive: it puts, as you say, "a tiger in the engine". In addition, it is accompanied by a reduced system of activity designed to encourage retention in employment, in order, as you wish, Mr rapporteur, to move gradually but surely out of the partial system of activity. It is no longer 100% covered as during confinement, but 85%, which encourages businesses to resume their business while continuing to support them. Soon, the reduced activity scheme will take over: it implies the signature by the companies benefiting from an enterprise or extended branch agreement with measures to maintain employment. This is the surgical response that Mrs Rabault calls for, because this solution makes it possible to be tailor-made; this agility, this precision gives us the opportunity to vigorously help those who need it most in order to revive the whole economy, and consequently employment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, rapporteur: more suitable solutions than yours are already being created. The La République group will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u46	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u47	While the health situation in the face of covid-19 seems to be improving throughout the territory, our country is slowly recovering from almost three long months of inactivity. Although the crisis is primarily health-related, it also has an economic dimension. When the confinement was announced, thousands of small businesses had to close suddenly; In some areas, such as catering, the Government left them only six hours to organize. It was therefore essential to provide assistance to the entire French economic fabric. Solidarity Fund, State-guaranteed loans, partial unemployment: many tools have been deployed to meet immediate needs. However, despite the diversity of these aids, many companies were left behind because they did not meet the necessary criteria to claim them. So, as you know, we have been defending the cancellation of social and tax charges for our businesses for several weeks. Some ECTs and SMEs continue to face the severe crisis, particularly those in areas of rural revitalization, and that this location is moving away from urban economic dynamics. Their characteristics do not allow them to recover sufficiently to compensate for the losses accumulated during the period of closure or reduction of activity. The Government has announced a cancellation of charges for some companies that have been closed administratively, but we must anticipate the resumption of business and continue to support these TPEs and SMEs. They are essential to French economic networking; they contribute to the attractiveness of our territories; and even if the health crisis seems to be running out, the economic crisis is just beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u48	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u49	While the take-over of partial activity by the State and UNEDIC was essential in order to avoid mass unemployment, it fell sharply from 100 % to 85 % as of 1 June, except for the severely affected catering and hospitality sectors; Even though in April France had 8.6 million employees concerned. This decision, however, shows a desire for economic recovery that can only be welcomed, because it is necessary to step out of this system, the cost of which is particularly important for our public finances, which are already very degraded. However, some companies remain far too weak to be able to cope with the decline in take-over even though their business is just resuming. The Bank of France, which considers that the French economy will take two years to recover, is already planning a 10% reduction in gross domestic product. It is therefore necessary to continue to support companies in order to encourage the resumption of activity while controlling our finances. Mr Eric Woerth's proposal to exempt companies that are gradually leaving the partial unemployment scheme from social contributions deserves study. This would encourage the return to work, in accordance with health rules. All companies would be accompanied during the full resumption of their activities. Such a mechanism would also make it possible to particularly support very small, very fragile enterprises, such as those present in areas of rural revitalization. There is an urgent need to revive France's economy because the various aids provided by the State remain financed above all by an increase in public debt, which future generations should not have to bear. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, this bill is part of a medium-term business support strategy and is necessary to limit the public cost of the partial activity. Above all, it would send a very strong message: the revival of economic activity requires not only temporary and exceptional aid, but above all work, the founding value of the French social pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u50	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u51	The health crisis that we are emerging from has caused an unprecedented shock to our economy. Recession forecasts are reaching peaks – a 11 per cent drop in gross domestic product is reported, or even worse. This economic shock will have important consequences, which will lead in particular to an increase in unemployment. It must be said that France has addressed this health crisis with disabilities. The employment situation was fragile, as in March the unemployment rate exceeded 8%, compared with 3% in Germany. The number of unemployed exploded in April, in particular the number of jobseekers in category A, which increased by almost 850,000 people – 850,000 French – compared to March. The worst is yet to come because of the social plans that are expected and that could multiply at the beginning of the year. So, as a northern elected candidate, I'm worried about Renault's employees working at the Maubeuge site. We must not resign ourselves by accepting massive long-term unemployment, particularly that of young people, as a fatality. We've been through him for too long. In order to combat unemployment, we must explore all the ways, show imagination, inventiveness and study all the proposals. That's what we're doing this morning. The scheme of partial unemployment, introduced at the beginning of the health crisis, was welcomed in that it allowed to keep as many employees as possible in employment and to support companies weakened by the economic shock and sudden interruption of an economic activity. In the end, it was the only solution. One in two employees stopped working during confinement, 8 and a half million of them benefited from the scheme in April. The cost of partial unemployment will be particularly high for public finances already largely under stress. Our public debt is exponential, unlike that of our European neighbours. Thus, the partial unemployment scheme will have been able to cope with the first economic shock. This measure will undoubtedly have to be maintained until the end of the year for the most difficult enterprises, in particular SMEs and TPEs, and, of course, extended by an overall recovery plan adapted to each situation, in each sector of activity, in each enterprise stratum. This recovery plan must not result from the mere juxtaposition of different recovery plans adapted to sectors, but from the decline of a strategic vision of the future of our society. The Government has estimated the cost of the partial activity package at EUR 24 billion, but it is known that it will be around EUR 40 billion. It is essential to accompany companies during this phase of confinement because, as everyone has seen, the activity is only partially resumed. In addition, barrier actions and health measures profoundly alter working patterns and hinder productivity. Mr Eric Woerth proposed temporarily exempting companies from social security contributions who were currently taking up their employees from partial unemployment. The budget dedicated to the financing of the partial unemployment scheme would be used to compensate for the loss that would follow the temporary reduction in employers' costs. Let us recognize the merit of this bill in proposing solutions to meet the major challenges of the coming months, in particular the return to work of partially unemployed employees and the gradual resumption of this activity, with the aim of accompanying companies during this period of exit from the crisis. We need to look carefully at incentives to return to work. It should be noted, however, that the vast majority of firms which resort to partial unemployment were forced to do so because their order books were empty. Employees were placed in partial unemployment at the request of their company and not because they refused to work. Their wages have been significantly reduced. We are not opposed to temporary relief of the employer's burden for the TPEs and SMEs who do not have the same capacity as the large groups to absorb this economic shock. We will vote for this text. For many small businesses, it is urgent to find solutions so that the lack of cash does not lead them to deposit the balance sheet in the short term. In addition to the burden-free measures, a mechanism should be introduced to bring cash into line with financing requirements until the total resumption of activity. This is the proposal of the National Rally and Marine Le Pen. This mechanism could be quickly put in place by the Bank of France, in conjunction with the European Central Bank. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Let us not fall back into the traps of the past, ladies and gentlemen, by imagining that the burden-relief measures will suffice. It will be necessary to regain the will to produce in France, to consume local. It is economic patriotism and localism that we defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u52	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u53	First of all, I would like to thank the speakers who have spoken and to point out that the Republican Group's proposals are not limited to it. On the contrary, we have in mind a broad overview of measures to accelerate growth and the recovery of activity. Thus, the following bill, submitted by Guillaume Peltier, provides fundamental provisions to combat youth unemployment. We were the first to alert you on this subject several weeks ago. So do not limit our programme to this proposal. On the other hand, I would like, as a matter of principle, not to mention the subject of unemployment too coldly, as in the past. I do not want to be content with drawing up social plans and promising to do everything possible to reduce it while sheltering behind the crisis. Social plans are being prepared in each of our constituencies, which means that men and women will lose their jobs because the economy has stopped brutally. They're not responsible, nobody is. Madam Minister, you have been very daring. The Government has dared to reverse the table to block the economy and thereby reduce health risks. Why don't you show the same audacity to unlock the situation? Why do you retain this relatively bureaucratic vision of recovery? I hear everywhere that you want to proceed by sector, surgically. Remember that surgery without anesthesia can be very painful or even dangerous. Why use all these words that don't mean much? Of course, there is a need to help sectors that are less well. When you blocked the French economy, you did not say that you would benefit from the partial unemployment scheme in a number of sectors. On the contrary, you had a general view of the scheme by inviting employers to use it when the survival of their business was at stake, without limiting it to those whose activity had stopped. Why don't you follow the same logic today by considering that every company needs to take over faster than it could without the measure we are proposing? We cannot be content with the natural rhythm. Of course, an episode of recession, especially as huge as the one we have experienced, is always followed by a period of growth. It is natural that a trade that has had to close will increase its turnover when it reopens. But this is not enough to compensate for 11% of recession, 11% of unemployment and 11% of public deficit: we need to go much faster! Why don't you dare? Why doesn't your majority dare take effective action? Lowering the cost of labour is a well-known measure that, contrary to what many claim, has borne fruit...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u55	...but it's an old debate between the left and the right. The cost of labour must be reduced. Moreover, as the wave arrives in the short term, why do you set medium-term objectives? As she gets ready to roll, you're building a boat! The question is how to prevent this wave from breaking. That being said, I agree with you on the partial unemployment scheme and the social dialogue. But what do you want to talk to the unions about? Social plans that will accumulate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u56	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u57	Social dialogue has another benefit: finding the conditions for appeasement between each other. In this case, we don't have time. Social plans won't happen in six or eight months, but tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u58	It'll be too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u59	Do you realize what a million more unemployed people represent? It's colossal. We can't stay here without acting. Immobilism is not an option.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u60	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We propose to abandon the logic in the medium term and dare to revive the economy as you dared to block it. Dare to do otherwise by supporting our bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u63	In three years, I haven't been used to what we're accused of not daring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u65	You didn't dare.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u66	Not everyone has always approved the decisions of the Government and the presidential majority, but no one has accused us of immobilism. On the contrary, we have sometimes been accused of doing a little too much. For the past three months, in a convergence of Republican views, we have been able to act quickly and strongly in the face of the crisis. Several speakers pointed out that we were able to take measures very quickly: State-guaranteed loans, carry-over of social security contributions or partial operating arrangements, introduced in a few days, since it did not exist in this form before. Why are you implying that we would have stopped today? It would be against our nature, which has not changed in three years. As far as social dialogue is concerned, I believe that we do not have the same vision. Social dialogue is not only about raising or sharing problems, but also about finding solutions together. It is in this spirit that the President of the Republic received, last week, with the Prime Minister and several other ministers, the social partners. We are working at an intense pace on all these subjects. Fifteen days ago, we looked at learning, which allowed us to quickly take action that you approve. Today we are studying the employment of young people, which we will talk about in a moment, the long-term partial activity, the secondment of work, vocational training and unemployment insurance. The consultations, which are very intensive, will continue until the end of next week in order to take decisions quickly because, we agree, there is an urgent need for action and we cannot simply take action over the medium term. The crisis is there. However, if action is to be taken quickly, it does not mean that we must act alone and we must dare social dialogue to build solutions. Mr rapporteur, the debate has shed light on the major problem of your bill – although I welcome and support your intention to act quickly and strongly. This problem is that of universal aid. Mr Vigier and Mrs Dalloz recalled: you propose to exempt all companies from employers' charges, provided that they resume their employees with partial unemployment within five days of the publication of the law or within thirty days if their activity had stopped, as is the case in the tourism sector. In short, we should reopen everything within five days, but I do not believe that we can decree a resumption of activity. For the business to go back, it takes customers, suppliers, employees. There is also a need to change working methods in order to comply with health rules. However, not all companies, all sectors, are in the same situation. This is where there is the risk of a boon effect cited by MPs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Catherine Fabre and Christophe Naegelen. I will take two opposing examples: aeronautics and automobiles. Even by granting them an exemption from total charges, these two sectors will not leave tomorrow morning. This is impossible because of their production and control cycles. Aeronautics will have to be supported for a long time. We believe in the strength of France in this field...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u67	It doesn't sound like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u68	...but it will have to be helped to build an ecological aircraft faster than expected and to accompany it in the meantime. Currently, with or without charge exemptions, the aviation industry cannot operate at 100%, as orders have been frozen, slowed down or postponed. However, economic activity does not consist of producing aircraft without selling them. The car was already in trouble. France is fortunate to have a car industry; We want it to continue, and that is why we will support it. The crisis did not solve the general difficulties of the sector, particularly those of Renault. Moreover, it calls for a transformation, both digital and ecological – as the trend is towards greener vehicles – that will have to be accompanied over time. This subject is not indifferent to the outcome of the crisis. The tourist season will take place. Usually, France welcomes 93 million tourists; The sector accounts for 7% of GDP and a very large share of jobs. However, these figures will not be reached this summer: more French will take their holidays in France, but the country will welcome far fewer foreign tourists. Mr rapporteur, you want to grant burden exemptions to companies in the sector on condition that they take over all their employees within five days. In five days, however, tourism activity will not have resumed, and these employees will be unemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u69	That's not what Mr. Woerth said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u70	Moreover, at the time of recovery, when companies need help, they will have lost their employees. On the contrary, the continuation of partial activity over a longer period of time will accompany them in the middle of the wave in order to enable them to resume their activity as much as possible, without loss of jobs or skills in the other sectors. You want to help everyone, the intention is commendable. But let's take a positive example – because there are also positive elements: 80% of the business is taking over, our fight is focused on the remaining 20% – that of car dealers. On the day of their reopening, we were entitled to wonder if the French would go to buy cars. It is a difficult decision to anticipate in the aftermath of the crisis. The answer is yes: the dealers are running full and they have already brought back their employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u71	The bigger it is, the more it goes! We don't live in the same France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u72	Some have not yet done so, but why help a sector that goes back? That would encourage the bounty effect. It is better to target the device to those who need it. The activity is not decreed. The most difficult sectors, which will only resume their activities in full next year, would be doubly penalized by a measure which would ask them to bring back all employees within five days, since this return would be followed by a plan for dismissal. However, our aim is to avoid social plans as much as possible by maintaining long-term partial activity. We are discussing this with the social partners and an agreement will have to be reached by 1 July; That should reassure you, rapporteur, who was concerned about the urgency of the situation. Another point, less mentioned in the debate, is a problem in my view: you deny what we have done with regard to exemptions from employers' charges when they are now almost non-existent at the level of the SMIC. The lowest-paid employees, whose jobs are most at risk, will not be helped by your approach, because exemptions already exist, and it is not possible to add others. I would also like to return to one point raised by Jean-Pierre Vigier, namely the cancellation of the charges. Because we believe in targeted exemptions, we have therefore decided, not to carry forward charges, but to exempt, for a period of four months, the tourism, culture, sport, event, hospitality, trade and catering sectors, as well as the sectors and companies that depend on them. For example, some brewers, who work 100% for bars and cafes – which have been closed – will also be entitled to a charge exemption. It seems to me important to use this type of targeted, more effective tool. Valérie Rabault and Jennifer de Temmerman blamed us for not giving the figures for the partial activity in the aeronautical sector. That is true, but we have quoted those of the global partial activity. You will see, in the third amending finance bill, that we have planned to go, if necessary, up to EUR 31 billion to finance the partial activity. I would like to make another point concerning a figure taken up by some speakers: the 9 or 10 or even the 12 million requests I have mentioned in recent weeks correspond to the total number of requests made by companies, not to the number of people in partial activity at the moment. This is the accumulation of applications over three months, and many employees have not been in partial employment for three full months. At the end of April, the employment of 8.6 million employees was maintained thanks to partial activity. We are waiting for the May figures, which will necessarily be lower, because the resumption of activity has begun. Another important issue raised by Catherine Fabre and Yannick Favennec Becot is the unilateral nature of the decision. I don't think a single actor can decide how to get out of the crisis. To get out of it, we need a spirit of cohesion and commitment. It is also clear that the companies which have experienced the best recovery are those which, using the health guides for the protection of workers drawn up with the social partners, have organised one or two days of social dialogue to decide how to proceed. I visited Toyota's site in Valenciennes a few days ago, which did exactly that, and the activity was completely resumed thanks to the social dialogue. What has been true in recent months must remain true in the coming weeks. This is the case with consultation. Many of the measures taken over the past three months, which you have welcomed, are the result of discussions. I held 20 telephone meetings with the social partners during the period. We must continue this approach, which will enable us to emerge from the crisis from the top. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Work is a founding value and we place it at the heart of our project. No one can claim that companies or employees do not want to return to work; But we must create the conditions for recovery and protect companies and employees alike, who will need more time because their activity is more lastingly damaged. This does not mean that they have no prospects. There is no fatality. But we must all get to it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u73	I now call the single article of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u74	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u75	The health crisis has led, as a result of the confinement, to an economic crisis which will have serious consequences for the French economy. In total, the Government will have deployed 450 billion euros of State aid and guarantees, whether through the solidarity fund, the State-guaranteed loan or partial unemployment. Partial unemployment was an essential lever during the crisis of the Covid-19. It has also had a very significant impact on already damaged public finances. The scheme had benefited 12.9 million employees and 1 million businesses as of 25 May and was useful in saving businesses, jobs and skills in a difficult time. Our colleague Eric Woerth's bill proposes that the cost of partial unemployment, which amounts to more than EUR 25 billion, be transformed to directly support employment through lower labour costs. Employers will no longer benefit directly from partial unemployment, but will not pay employer social security contributions for six months after the employee's return to work, up to a maximum of 4.5 times the SMIC. Reducing employer contributions will reduce the cost of work and promote employment. The bill is a real step forward in safeguarding our citizens from the economic and social crisis, and in preventing partial unemployment from becoming permanent unemployment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is an urgent need to revive France's economy. Many sectors are severely affected by the crisis and, although the economy is restarting, it is not moving back at the same pace as before. Physical distancing measures have a very strong impact on turnover and on the business model. It is our duty to continue to support and support them through this major crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u76	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u77	Minister, I have never asked that 100% of the part-time employees return to their positions. I simply think that the pace of employee recovery needs to be speeded up. The text proposes a fundamental key that will avoid leaving people in uncertainty and will speed up the process, because, by lowering the cost of work, we will increase the ability to give back their jobs to some people who are partially unemployed. This is an acceleration device. We're told it'll be expensive, and at the same time it's not going to work. Well, if it doesn't work, it won't cost much! And if it works, it may be a little expensive, but still less expensive than putting people out of work. The criticism is therefore unfounded. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, the famous boon effect is the eternal argument that one invokes when one does not know what to say. But France is full of bounty effects! Given the nature of our social model, we can even talk about a global bounty effect. You dared to have the effects of a boon on the EMPs – state-guaranteed loans –, you dared to have the effects of a boon on the solidarity fund, you dared to have the effects of a boon on partial unemployment: well, dare the effects of a boon in the field of business resumption!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u79	We need to go faster and further. I do not underestimate social dialogue. I myself was Minister of Labour and the Public Service. It is of course preferable to agree, for example on learning. But the absolute urgency is to reduce the level of intensity and social nuisance of the social plans that are expected. I do not invent it, I do not do catastrophism, I am not pessimistic in nature: it is the Government that gives the figures. It is not through targeting that we will avoid having 11% unemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u80	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] 11 % of the unemployed are general unemployment, mass unemployment. I don't have a problem with setting up separate plans. But you're wrong to oppose them to the rest. The first layer, which is a matter of urgency, must be taken into account. There has been a health emergency, there is now an economic emergency: social plans must be avoided.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u82	I have before me two amendments, Nos 4 and 3, which can be presented together. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u83	Amendment No 4 is intended to reserve the exemption from charges for companies with fewer than 50 employees; Amendment No 3 is a fallback amendment and proposes the same measure for companies with fewer than 11 employees. During the crisis, if much has been done, thanks to the partial unemployment scheme or the solidarity fund, but there have been many forgotten: companies with 11 to 50 employees. The SDS was intended only for companies with fewer than 11 employees. However, in the territories, while many SMEs have been able to benefit from partial unemployment – and this is a good thing – some artisans who had hired to develop their businesses and outnumbered eleven employees told us that they had not been entitled to this aid, which is a pity. I wanted to remind the minister. With these amendments, I am sending a double message: let us pay attention to public finances and reserve exemptions for companies with fewer than fifty employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u84	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u85	First of all, Mr President, thank you for amending the text. It is a healthy exercise that values legislative proposals and allows for better debate. I am not in favour of these amendments, because they exclude a lot of people. Logic is a mass logic, but not a club move. It is funny, moreover: whenever the Government presents a plan, it is "massive", but when we propose a measure that concerns everyone, we are criticized. A little consistency! In this case, you exclude 50-80% of employees and I think that is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u86	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u87	These amendments give me the opportunity to clarify the Government's point of view. Amendment No 4 is intended to limit the exemption from employer contributions provided for in the original draft law to undertakings with fewer than 50 employees; Amendment No 3, which is in decline, puts the threshold at eleven employees. First of all, I would like to reassure you, Mr Naegelen: the majority of the small enterprises benefited from the partial activity: 60% of the employees covered by the partial activity work in companies with one to fifty employees, because we have put in place an extremely simple, automatic and easy-to-access system, which they have made extensive use of. Since the shops reopened, many have told me that he saved three employees here, five. This is a concrete measure that has enabled small businesses to safeguard employment. As I have said, imposing a brutal exit from partial activity on businesses could have dramatic consequences for short-term employment, thereby ruining all the efforts we have been making collectively over the past three months to maintain jobs and skills. This reasoning is valid regardless of the size of the company, even though we agree that SMEs face particular problems, in particular because they have less cash and fill out their order books in the shorter term. It is therefore to accompany them that we have opened up the possibility of going through the branch agreement to introduce the partial activity scheme, which has made it easier for small businesses to access it. In fact, in a few weeks, many branch agreements have been signed: it is a success. This is why special attention will be paid to SMEs with the new aid, which will be proposed in the third draft of the amending finance law. I am thinking in particular of the reduction in social contributions, which will reduce the cost of work for enterprises with less than 250 employees. Moreover, the corollary of the bill is an exit from the partial unemployment scheme. However, as I have already had the opportunity to say, this must be conditioned by the level of activity of companies and I therefore feel that it is still premature for many companies and sectors. We have chosen to allow a gradual adaptation, in order to differentiate the accompaniment between sectors and companies. For consistency, I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendments; Otherwise, the Government will issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u88	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u89	The sectoral exemptions currently proposed concern small enterprises, as well as exemptions for firms that have had to close and exemptions possible on a case-by-case basis for all sectors of activity. Small businesses are at the heart of our concerns today! Mr rapporteur, you have said that we have taken the risk of creating many windfall effects during confinement. But honestly, I don't think the solution you're proposing is right. Indeed, your proposal tends to subsidize activities that are naturally quick to restart. On the other hand, it may encourage the recovery of companies which, because they are unprofitable, may have to wait a bit. They are likely to find themselves in difficulty in the medium term, which may lead to plans to safeguard employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u90	That's a lot of "maybe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u91	On the other hand, it does not provide any assistance to sectors of activity which, structurally, cannot at present restart. I think it is better to adopt structural and sectoral approaches to support businesses in need, because partial unemployment is bound to last. The solution that you are proposing to us may be appropriate in the context of a global crisis linked to factors internal to the economy, but it does not seem to me to be adapted to the situation as we know it today, which is the result of an external shock: the health crisis affects sectors of activity and businesses very differently. Your solution would therefore have almost counterproductive effects, by helping certain sectors that do not need it and by abandoning, on the contrary, those that cannot now resume their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u92	Sectors that don't need it? Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u93	We talked about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u94	They're all falling apart!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u95	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u96	Let us be clear: we do not dispute the usefulness of partial unemployment, and we are the first to recognize that the solution was adapted to the crisis. It remains to be seen how long it has to be used and how to get out of it: the reality is that it cannot be maintained in the state for any time, for public finances or for economic recovery! Supporting the economic recovery and reviving the dynamics of the market: this – and only this – is the basis of our debate. Mrs Fabre, you say that in this case the shock is external: of course, but today it is nevertheless becoming an internal shock! It will concern the whole of French economic activity which, as by chance – and unfortunately – encounters more difficulties than other countries. Compare what's happening at home with what's happening in Germany! You don't want to see the reality. Madam Minister, you say that today the exit of the partial unemployment scheme is premature, but let's stop...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u97	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, that's exactly what you said a few minutes ago! "It seems premature," these are your terms. For my part, I say that in three months it will be too late: it is now that we must act, and that is the meaning of the bill put forward by Eric Woerth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u99	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u100	Let me make a point: as a general measure, a comparison with Germany, of which each of the 16 Länder manages things differently from the others, is still a bit daring! In particular, Germany applies measures which are exactly contrary to those of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u101	Because she doesn't need it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u102	The rapporteur, Mr Eric Woerth, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u103	It is intended to clarify that the scope of the proposed exemptions is based on the current ceiling of 1.6 SMIC for relief. Madam Minister, you have indicated that our scheme would not include people in the SMIC, whose charges are already almost non-existent: certainly, but there are indeed charges for the other employees because, fortunately, not everyone in France is paid to the SMIC! It is for this reason that you have extended the partial unemployment scheme introduced during the crisis of the Covid-19 up to 4.5 SMIC. Our proposal is based on salaries that you yourself have chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u105	Disadvantaged, for reasons I have already mentioned. I stress one point: of the 20 European countries which have introduced a partial activity scheme, none, to my knowledge, is planning to abolish it. I therefore recommend that you do not replace partial unemployment with a one-off exemption, which would not reach the target as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u106	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to support Amendment No 5 on the additional article after the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u107	It tends to highlight the difference between communication and reality. Indeed, the bill, which is extremely interesting, deals with the return to employment. However, during the confinement period, all the media indicated that the cost of partial unemployment measures for enterprises would be zero. That's not true. Let's take the example of two SMEs in my constituency: one had a payroll of around 50,000 euros monthly, the other with 35,000 euros. The first was paid back 35,000 or 40,000 euros, while the second received between 25,000 and 27000 euros, because the generalised social contribution – CSG – and the contribution to the repayment of the social debt – CRDS – were not repaid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u108	It's the employees who pay them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u109	Even before we talk about the return to employment, and as companies are just beginning to have cash entries and to be able to pay their employees again, I would like all companies that have been closed down to the administration to be reimbursed for their CSG and CRDS contributions: this is the aim of the amendment. In fact, contrary to what the media repeated for two months, this period had a cost to companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u111	I believe that, under the third PLFR, the Government will present a credit scheme on social contributions. My objective, like that of the Republican Group, is to encourage the recovery of employees, not to create cash in companies. Minister, I am, like you, attentive to social dialogue, but I am equally attentive to political dialogue. But I think there are a lot of misunderstandings between us on this subject: I have never said that the partial unemployment scheme should be abolished! You argue that none of the countries in which it exists has removed it: certainly, but no one asks France to do so! What we are proposing is to organise its lifting quietly, and from a moment on, companies can have a choice between keeping people out of work or getting them back a little faster. For example, if three of the company's five employees have already resumed, a fall in labour costs would also make it possible to take over the fourth. He would then no longer be in the scheme of partial unemployment and, in fact, would probably escape the social plan that will accompany him! This is our idea to activate the recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u113	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u115	The Government's opinion will also be unfavourable, for reasons already mentioned. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the CSG and the CRDS are paid by the employees. Reimbursing them as if they were employers' contributions would be somewhat paradoxical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u116	Consequently, the proposal for a law to temporarily reduce the social contributions paid by enterprises in order to gradually replace the partial activity scheme is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u117	The next item is the proposal for a law to introduce for two years a "zero burden" scheme for the employment of young people under 25 years of age (No. 2989, 3047).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u118	Mr Guillaume Peltier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u119	Everyone on these benches knows the seriousness of the health crisis we have experienced. Everyone on these benches measures the power of the economic and social crisis that we are going to face. Since the war, the national wealth of our homeland has never collapsed to this extent – more than ten points of recession, three to four times more than during the 2008 crisis. Never since the statistics were available had unemployment increased so much in our country – more than 840,000 unemployed in April alone. Never had entire sections of our economy doubted themselves and their own survival: I am thinking especially of our artisans, our traders, our entrepreneurs, our restaurants, our hoteliers and our tourism professionals. How can we not be alarmed for our youth either? The figures are terrifying: there were 150,000 more unemployed young people in April. More than 2 million of our young people, who leave their qualifications or studies, will be entering the labour market over the next three years: they will be 700000 this summer, including 200,000 young people from our vocational colleges. But, if I went up to the National Assembly, it's not just to gine numbers, however hard they may be. I present myself before you for names, eyes, journeys, distresses, faces. I introduce myself to you on behalf of Kevin, student, Farida, alternance programmer, Cédric, CAP – certificate of professional fitness – engine driver, Chloe, who is looking for an internship or Charlotte, apprentice. We, the national representation, are here to defend a youth now under house arrest. And if, with the Republicans and Eric Woerth, we do not act forcefully, we could collectively be accused of non-helping youth in danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u121	If we are to be concerned about all young people, we must pay particular attention to the young people of forgotten France, that of peripheral France, of France of the countryside and the provinces, of France of the working-class districts, of this young people who have no business card, no address book, no network, no family, who can help them. Today, young people are watching us. And it is out of the question that we abandon it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u122	That is why, together with Eric Woerth and the Republican Group, we present this strong, fair and credible bill. She's strong because she has the merit of being simple. It aims to establish, from 15 June 2020 and for a period of two years, a "zero load" scheme for any recruitment of a young person under 25 years of age into a company, community or association.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u123	Nice idea! Let's think about our children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u124	It is fair, because the benefit of this scheme is conditional on the young person being hired on an indefinite contract or on a fixed-term contract of at least six months. It is credible because, as Éric Woerth recalled a moment ago, it relies on measures that have proven their worth in the past, in 2008, 2010 and 2012. According to economists Pierre Cahuc and Stéphane Carcillo, a similar measure had created more than 30,000 jobs in 2009 alone. I come to a few additional comments. First of all, according to our estimates, this scheme would create nearly 100,000 jobs for our young people, at a gross cost to the State of EUR 200 million. This money would be paid back very quickly if we consider the simple idea, too easily forgotten in our country, that a worker costs the state much less than an unemployed person.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u125	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u126	Then, during our discussions and debates in committee – which I am pleased to hear – you all announced your intention to support this idea on the condition that the threshold for triggering the exemption is 2.5 SMIC; I'm in favour of it. I will table an amendment to that effect, and I will support any similar amendment. Finally, given that, on average, young people enter the labour market at 22 years of age, and that 75% of them receive a much too low wage, which does not exceed 1500 euros net, I would like to point out that, in practice, this measure is not symbolic. For 1500 euros net, it is necessary to count around 10000 euros of contributions and expenses per year, with 5000 euros of employer contributions. Of course, this bill is perfectable. Of course, it does not claim completeness and we are open to all improvements, but it is a law of hope, a law of trust and a law of justice. Let's think about our youth. Youth is a promise of emancipation, and work is the realization of emancipation. Everyone has the right to live, to work, to progress according to his or her talent, to live better than his or her own parents, to live better to offer his or her own children better. Young people deserve better than a spirit of defeat, they deserve better than bonuses, than discount contracts or allowances. Who can believe that the social minimums, the RSA or the unemployment benefits are only growing up? Who can believe that we grow up without work and effort? Youth is the opposite of gambling, levelling and egalitarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u128	When Jean Jaurès spoke to high school students about the extra effort and the inviolable treasures of work, it was the opposite of levelling. When Léon Blum spoke to the youth about school emulation and the development of individual powers, it was the opposite of egalitarianism. In the midst of all the dreams, all the hopes, all the promises that the world offers it, in the midst of all the obstacles that stand before it, and which prevent it from gaining its momentum, we know, in this Chamber, that young people constantly hesitate between joy and the fear of living. Our role, that of Members of the Republican Group, that of all of us, is to allow life, often becoming a threat to our youth, to be a promise again. In life, there are spectators and actors, those who watch and those who act. France needs the desires and dreams of its youth. But what are unfulfilled dreams for? To want to build a new France without having the opportunity to work, to want to build it on utopias such as egalitarianism, a life dedicated to leisure alone, the impossibility of working, the refusal of efforts, is already condemned to failure. France needs its youth and, in truth, it is not a service to the latter to depreciate the effort. It is not a service to our youth to devalue work and merit. France will be awakened by those who rise early, by those who roll up their sleeves to fulfill their dreams.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u129	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u130	It is through work that one can live with dignity; it is through work that one can found a family; it is through labor that one can pay his rent; It is through work that one can regain his dignity. Youth is not a period of life that must extend childhood indefinitely. Youth is autonomy, it is the dream of social ascent, it is equal opportunities. It is this idea of alchemy and alliance between rights and duties. Youth is to study, to train, to work, to undertake, to understand, to learn. Youth is being free, it's being responsible, it's conquering and it's committing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, we will have to do much more and go much further. We will need to rehabilitate basic knowledge and learning, which is a path of excellence. It will also be necessary to rehabilitate the manual trades, and remind everyone that the intelligence of the hand is worth the intelligence of the mind. We will have to reward work better, because, I say, wages are too low. We will have to turn our backs on the spirit of rent and the spirit of assistance, which never augurs well. But to all the students, to all the apprentices, to all the alternates, to all the young people, to all the sons and daughters of the CAPs and BEPs of the professional high schools and the magnificent manual trades, the national representation must affirm: "Be proud, never let anyone ever steal your dreams of absolute, ideal, work, dignity, independence and responsibility! Having life before you is an immense privilege, and no one should steal this treasure from you. To all our youth, to Kevin, to Farida, to Charlotte, to Cédric, to Chloe, we can say, and I say at this moment: "I don't want to help you stay young as long as possible, I want to allow you to become adults so that one day at last you can fulfill your dreams of youth. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u131	He was very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u132	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u133	Mr rapporteur, I thank you for putting forward, with your bill, the need for a strong response in order to prevent the future of our youth from holding in André Gide's sad maxim that "the present would be full of all futures if the past did not already project a history there". This maxim is filled with a determinism to which I believe we are all viscerally opposed on all the benches of this House. This statement is profoundly contradictory with the very essence of youth, with its desire for emancipation, with its desire to build a world and its willingness to have all the tools to shape it, to project itself into it, to dream about it and, ultimately, to fully realize itself. There is no fatality: young people should not be the adjustment variable of this economic and social crisis. I have been saying this for a month now: we refuse to have a generation sacrificed. In line with this aspiration is the founding spirit of the reforms that we have carried out over the past three years. I am thinking of the law for the freedom to choose his professional future, thanks to which the number of apprentices has finally been able to take off in our country. It has increased by 16% and we have reached the historical figure of 500,000 apprentices, which has never happened in France since the last war.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u134	The regions have contributed a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u135	On this point, let me be surprised, Mr Peltier, because you have not supported this reform, which you welcome today. You are right to say – and I agree with you – that apprentices demonstrate multiple forms of intelligence and that learning is a way of excellence and of the future. I, who have been visiting 60 CFAs for the past two years – a training centre for apprentices – can tell you that I have seen bright eyes and young people showing their pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u136	You never mention the regions when you talk about learning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u137	Can the minister speak without being interrupted?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u138	I regret that you did not support our text at the time, but the important thing today is that we are continuing together what has been undertaken. I am also thinking of the unprecedented effort of EUR 15 billion in the competence investment plan, distributed through regional pacts, notably in the Centre-Val de Loire, rapporteur, or through calls for innovative national projects. Hundreds of thousands of young people have thus returned to the path of training, employment, and hope, thanks to this mechanism. Finally, many levers for action have been strengthened. I am thinking of the accompaniment carried out by local missions, the guarantee of young people, free jobs, especially for young people who are subjected to discrimination and house arrest in their neighbourhoods, or the innovative high school centres, devices of second chance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u139	The minister doesn't like the regions, but she talked about the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u140	For the first time in ten years, youth unemployment had begun to decline significantly thanks to the scale of the reforms. However, the previous crises and their social and economic consequences have unfortunately shown that young people are often among the most vulnerable, the most affected and the first to be affected. They are the last to be hired or trained by companies. In such a context, we are all here fully aware that we are subject to an absolute imperative: we must protect them and allow them to emancipate without suffering the consequences of the crisis, and this quickly despite the economic halt caused by the health crisis. That is why we took urgent measures without delay three months ago on the basis of Parliament's authorizations. General measures have been taken which also have an effect on young people. I am thinking of those relating to partial activity – we mentioned them in the previous debate – aimed at protecting jobs and skills within companies. We have also ensured that apprentices retain their contract of employment and benefit from partial activity by retaining their full remuneration. All this explains the very small number of contract breaches during the period concerned. We have also mobilised the CFA, which I welcome, to set up a distance training course which has been attended by nine out of ten apprentices. The apprentices therefore do not lose the benefit of their year, especially since we have allowed the contracts to be extended so that they can complete their training. The rules on end-of-rights job seekers, temporary workers and seasonal workers have been relaxed in order to protect these populations, among which there are a large number of young people. How many students finance their studies by being seasonal workers during the summer? We discussed this subject at length on 18 May during a debate on your agenda by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Beyond these general measures, for the past three months, we have also acted directly and specifically in the direction of youth. The main measure in this area was to mobilise EUR 150 million in the form of exceptional aid of EUR 200 per 800,000 young people – students who have lost their internships or work prospects, apprentices who have lost their jobs, young people who can no longer access training or employment. In order to compensate for the loss of income associated with the cessation of activity and the loss of opportunity, other emergency measures have been taken to respond to situations of particular fragility. I am thinking, for example, of the decision of the CROUS, the regional centres of academic and academic works, not to require any advance notice from students who have decided to terminate their lease in a student residence. We also extended the care provided by child welfare to minors who were to reach their majority during the crisis of the covid-19, because, in the uncertain context that we are living, some of these young people, who are among the most vulnerable in society, would have found themselves on the street. As noted by the ILO Observatory, the International Labour Organisation, in the fourth edition of its synthesis on covid-19 and the world of work, published last week, in the world, one in six young people lost their jobs. Those who kept it suffered a loss of 23% of their working time. There is a risk that the effect of this initial shock on young people will be felt for a decade or longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u142	For our part, we do not want a generation to be sacrificed, for ten years or even for one year. Different scenarios can be drawn up from the figures of DARES, the Directorate for the animation of research, studies and statistics of my Ministry, and INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – figures which we communicated last Tuesday to the social partners. They show that, if no vigorous action is taken, between the end of 2019 and the second half of 2020 there could be 165,000 to 320,000 additional unemployed young people. I say this again with force: there is no question that young people are the variable for adjusting the crisis. It is therefore necessary to propose urgent and targeted responses to support them, even though, in the coming weeks, almost 700000 young people will arrive, as every year, in the labour market. The bill before us provides, as it stands, that any company that hires a young person under 25 years of age in CDI or CDD for a minimum period of six months would be completely exempt from employer charges up to 4.5 times the SMIC for two years. This exemption would apply on 15 June. The net cost of the measure, which you calculate based on the 2008 assessment of the expense relief policy, would be low. In reality – I wouldn't argue with you if the measure were effective – the exemption from the proposed charges would be more costly than you suggest, both in terms of overall expenditure and in terms of the cost per job created. Indeed, the provision would create a strong boon effect in a context where there are still many hirings. Yesterday, on the site of Pôle Emploi, there were 540,000 job offers. New offers are published daily. Of course, some young people will face difficulties, but not all will be accommodated in the same house. Before the crisis, among the highly educated young people, there was not only no unemployment, but a shortage of labour, the unemployment rate among managers being 2.8%. So if your measure is intended to help especially young graduates and not the least qualified of them, it goes against your will. Given this difference, the bounty effect would be greater with your proposal than with the 2009 "zero load" device. Thus, fewer net job creations could be attributed to it. In addition, in 2009, the employer burden at the SMIC level was still about 20 points, so the cost of hiring a young person was much higher. Since 1 January 2019, these charges no longer exist; This is one of the measures we have taken to promote the employment of young people and the least skilled. Therefore, your proposal would benefit first of all the most graduates, whose difficulties, although not negligible, will be inconsequential with those of other young people. You have just said that you are considering reducing the threshold, by way of amendment, to 2.5 SMIC; But the ship's effect will remain. It would be more neutralised by the introduction of a flat-rate recruitment aid, targeted at young people with or without qualifications, or small and medium-sized enterprises, whose liquidity constraints related to confinement are higher and which are more significantly changing their hiring policy in the event of a crisis. The effect on the use of such a measure would therefore be more important than that of your proposed legislation. On the other hand – I have no doubt that you will join me on this point – the reduction in the cost of work should be included in a broader policy to support young people. Indeed, this cost is only one aspect of the problem, and it will also be necessary to take proactive measures in the areas of training, qualification and support for employment. In this area, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, we wanted to act in two stages, albeit quickly, on the basis of intensive concerted work each time. As a result, we are now making strong learning announcements. As you know, the recruitment campaign has begun; In view of the economic crisis, without vigorous and rapid assistance to businesses, firms would hire some 30 to 40 per cent fewer apprentices. The crisis – an exogenous factor – would therefore bring us back, in terms of learning, to the level we experienced three or five years ago. At the same time, we have launched a more comprehensive consultation on youth employment. As I said last Thursday, after consulting the social partners and all the actors involved in learning, we decided to put in place an immediate exceptional recruitment aid, which has so far been unique, to support the historic momentum created by the reform last year. We should all rejoice. Our goal is to have in 2021, despite the crisis, as many apprentices as in 2020. The cost of an apprentice to the company will therefore be almost zero in the first year. For contracts signed between 1 July and 28 February 2021, 5000 euros per year – which corresponds to the full costs – will be paid for alternates under 18 years of age, and 8000 euros for those over 18 years of age, who are preparing a CAP or professional license. These sums will be paid to enterprises with less than 250 employees without conditions, and to those with more than 250 employees provided that they commit themselves to the target set by law of 5% of alternates in 2021. Since Thursday, we have grown under the commitments of companies. They say: "Yes, we want to continue to train apprentices, this is the future; We couldn't do it before, but now we will. We must all mobilize to succeed in this bet, it is an essential question. This passion for trades, which inspires young apprentices who are committed to the path of future and excellence, must not be disappointed. In addition, to young people who have not yet found a business, we will give six months from September 1 to do so. Indeed, the encounter between the company and the young person is not always easy; Indeed, together with the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Higher Education, we create a platform that centralizes all applications registered on Affelnet and Parcoursup. The good news is that young people have understood the reform and importance of learning: the demand for this path of excellence is exploding,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u143	Depends on the sectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u144	... and it must find in front of it the answer of the companies. Some young people need time to consolidate their achievements, learn to convince and meet the company; This is why we are increasing the duration of pre-learning in CFA from three to six months. We work hand in hand with the regions, which have the competence of guidance, so that all young people in learning, in each academy, receive an answer. The social partners have committed themselves to supporting this effort because it is at local level that things are happening. We will continue to supplement the apprentices' computer equipment. I said: nine out of ten apprentices were able to take distance training thanks to the exceptional mobilisation of the CFAs and the support we have given them; But we have to get ten out of ten! I say again: we have helped companies massively during the health crisis; Now, what the country is asking them is to continue to train and hire apprentices – both for the country and for themselves, because if they don't, in three years' time, they will say they can't find the skills they need. The recovery will be there, but it will be blocked by this shortage. The role of enterprises in the training of young people is important, and they should be encouraged to do so. It is clear that in a context where job opportunities are anticipated to be reduced, all options that could improve the situation need to be examined. It is a subject that we all care about and we must be ambitious and innovative. The discussions that we are going to conduct contribute to this. It is in this spirit that among the five subjects that the President of the Republic asked me to explore in depth to build solutions with the social partners, there was first and foremost the employment of young people. We have started the consultations; in the next few days I will meet with all the social partners in a bilateral meeting. Last Tuesday, we have already conducted a first diagnostic meeting. The aim is to develop measures that can be taken by mid-July at the latest. This action plan must make it possible to avoid sacrificing an age group which, as you said, the rapporteur, wants to resolutely integrate the labour market in order to bring its youth, ideas, creativity, ambitions and hopes to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] A country that does not invest in its youth is sacrificing its future. To act vigorously in this area is therefore to serve the interests of all. The intention of the proposed scheme is commendable, but its effect on employment remains very perfect; Your proposal must therefore be discussed with the social partners and stakeholders committed to the integration of young people into the labour market, and be improved to become more effective. As you will understand, the Government cannot support the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u145	In the general debate, Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u146	With the epidemic of covid-19, France and the world are going through a health crisis of exceptional magnitude and severity. The authorities were forced to take particularly heavy containment measures for the lives of the French. Although essential, these measures have a very strong medium- and long-term impact on our economy. As we all know, the health crisis we are going through will cause an unprecedented economic and social crisis, even more serious than the 1929 crisis, if we do not take strong measures to revive our economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u148	With the end of confinement, comes the moment of reconstruction. If we do not act, small traders, artisans, TPEs and SMEs are at risk of disappearing. It is the whole dynamic of our city centres, but also of our territories, that is likely to collapse. Economic recovery plans, at both the national and regional levels, are being implemented: we welcome them, they are essential. Today, 750,000 young people complete their training and enter the labour market – talented young people, whom we must encourage and accompany. As our colleague Guillaume Peltier has said, it is better for a worker than for an unemployed person, since the former cost the State less than the latter. Currently, hiring is at a standstill, temporary employment is barely 30%, and contracts for apprenticeship and professionalization are rare. This is a real problem for the transmission of our know-how, especially in certain trades, such as building and mouth jobs. In this context, young people under the age of 25 will find it very difficult to enter working life. We cannot stand by, we cannot accept that young people are the sacrificed generation. It is therefore time to act and this bill proposes a lever for action. As we know, the most difficult phase is ahead: GDP is expected to fall by 10 per cent this year and unemployment could reach 12 per cent by mid-2021. Young people have been hit hard by this explosion of unemployment: the number of jobseekers under 25 years of age has increased by 29% compared to the end of February to reach the sad record of 659,000 unemployed. We must act against youth unemployment, it is our responsibility and it must be a priority. Work is a strong value that we must promote. That is why our colleague Guillaume Peltier has tabled this bill to create a "zero load" scheme for the hiring of a young person under 25 years of age for 2 years. It is simply a matter of drawing on a "zero load" scheme which already existed under the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy and which had allowed, in 2009, to hire, in the midst of an economic crisis, 799000 employees in companies with fewer than nine employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u149	This device has proven its worth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u150	It worked well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u151	The text we are looking at proposes that for any employment of an employee under the age of 25 from June 15, 2020, the employer shall not pay social contributions on wages paid between June 15, 2020 and June 15, 2022. Any young person under the age of 25 must be able to benefit from it, whether in CDI or CDD for a minimum of six months. Obviously, the exemption from social security contributions will not be enough to revive the economy and reinvigorate employment, we are well aware of this; But this is an essential first step and a gesture towards our youth. This mechanism has already proved its worth in the past, just after an economic crisis. It is a fair and hopeful bill. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we ask you to think carefully and vote today in your soul and conscience. You all have young people around you entering the labour market. Don't leave them at the edge of the road! You have the means, with this text, to offer them a sesame for their entry into working life. Furthermore, our colleague Guillaume Peltier has, of course, the remarks made in the Committee on Social Affairs and proposes, by way of amendment, to apply the measure to remunerations not exceeding 2.5 SMIC instead of 4.5 initially foreseen. This text, which is very consensual in its new version, would send a strong signal to our youth. It is our duty to accompany these thousands of young graduates in their early working lives. We all know the difficulties and the many pitfalls to be overcome in the first years of working life; This crisis must not increase them or – worse – exclude young people from the professional world. We have this tool at our disposal; Let's use it! Let us vote for this text, give a glimmer of hope to our youth, to the living forces of our territory. A country that does not invest in its youth is dying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u152	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let our young people live, flourish, fully realize themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u154	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u155	The bill that is being debated today comes in a context of intense labour market tension. Indeed, in April, the number of jobseekers rose very sharply, the largest ever in our country. If all age groups are affected, the under-25s pay the highest price since the figures for them have increased by almost 30%. These figures, which are very worrying, are not the result of a wave of redundancies, but of a blockage of short-term hirings and renewals due to the massive contraction of economic activity. However, the coming months will be particularly difficult for all young people in our country, who will have to integrate into a world of sclerotic and amorphous work. In order to address these difficulties, the text proposes to introduce a mechanism for exempting employers' charges which would encourage companies to hire young people under the age of 25, either in CDI or in CSDs of at least six months. This is no less than the extended transposition of the support package designed in 2009 to help the TPEs cope with the crisis. However, while the use of burden exemptions has been the main tool for responding to the previous crisis, the one we are experiencing today does not have the same characteristics at all and therefore does not call for the same revenue, especially since, for several years, various provisions have already reduced the burdens of the lowest remuneration. If, at first glance, this initiative seems attractive by its simplicity, it has biases and inconsistencies which, in our view, could lead to on-board effects. On the one hand, as I said in committee, Mr rapporteur, the absence of an impact assessment to measure the cost-benefit ratio of the measure is detrimental. On the other hand, the scope of the exemption, up to 4.5 SMIC – in the original version of the text, but you have since tabled an amendment – seems to us meaningless and, above all, far too broad. I therefore reiterate my question: which young person under the age of 25 signs an employment contract for a salary of more than 5000 euros? Moreover, if a company is able to pay such remuneration, it does not seem appropriate to exempt it from its expenses. This would lead to a totally counterproductive bounty effect. Finally, to propose the benefit of your measure to companies offering fixed-term contracts runs counter to what we have been defending since the beginning of the quinquennium, namely the limitation as much as possible of short-term contracts so that young people can integrate businesses sustainably and build their careers. The issue of youth employment is a priority for our majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u156	For us too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u157	... priority that has translated into concrete learning reform, which has led to a historic increase in the number of apprentices in 2019. The Government has persevered in this direction by presenting, last week, an ambitious €300 million support plan, which has been incorporated into the new draft law on amending finance, in order to encourage companies to continue this beautiful dynamic. Furthermore, as the Minister confirmed at the moment, a consultation will be held with the social partners in order to identify the most suitable means of relaunching the recruitment process. Aside from a unilateral measure such as the one proposed in the text, this time of dialogue with all stakeholders will enable our young people to support employment in a way that is relevant to employers. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, the MODEM Group will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u158	That's because you didn't propose it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u159	Followers of En Marche!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u160	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, we cannot and must not provide partial and decorated answers to the emerging crisis. We consider that a simple measure linked to the cost of work, which is very wide, will not solve anything. While particular attention should be paid to the youngest of our fellow citizens, consideration should be given to mechanisms consistent with a massive and multisectoral recovery plan drawn up in consultation with trade unions and employers' organisations. Only a comprehensive and joint approach will enable our economy to recover and, as a result, create jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u161	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u162	Do not see any attack, Mr Peltier, but, by hearing you just mentioned Jean Jaurès and Léon Blum, I could not help but think of what François Mitterrand said: the right-wing fights the socialists when they are alive, it only cites them when they are dead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u163	He was a great Maurras reader!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u164	Of course, Mr. Le Fur, but I don't see the relationship... However, you have the right to exegese Charles Maurras and François Mitterrand! We are no longer there, Mr. Peltier: we have both governed; We have both succeeded, but also failed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u165	Especially you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u166	Youth employment is undoubtedly the central issue for our country. I was just reading an article from the World that referred to the President of the Republic's concerns about the concerns of young people. I have two children myself, one 21 and the other 18 years old. Like all parents, I feel the anguish of this generation that knows it is sacrificed. Yes, young people know that they are a sacrificed generation, Madam Minister! For years, our country has been suffering from the endemic unemployment of young people. Their unemployment rate is 8 per cent higher than the OECD average. Peltier and the Minister recalled the figures, which reflect the seriousness of the situation: 300,000 more young people than in 2019, 700000 young graduates who are now entering the labour market and 3 million over the next three years. On the right as well as on the left, this reality requires us – as my colleague Jean-Louis Bricout said earlier – to be responsible and voluntary and to assert that no young person must be unemployed, that every young person must either take up a job or be in training. It is up to us, the adults, to ensure that this goal is achieved, even if it may seem purely incantatory. In any case, in a country as rich as ours, in a country whose history is as beautiful and which has immense responsibilities towards the younger generations, the mobilization must be up to date. That is why I was sensitive to this bill. I am not a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and I have not been able to attend the debate brilliantly chaired by Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon, but I have discussed this text with my Socialist colleagues and stressed to them its major virtue: simplicity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u168	I was mayor for nineteen years and president of a large community of communes for twenty-five years. I have often spoken with business leaders and I know how much they are attached to them. Unfortunately, the text raises several problems that have been mentioned before me, notably by Mrs Elimas – it always gives me a strange effect to quote a MEP from MODEM! The Commission rightly denounced possible on-board effects, the lack of impact assessment and the need to target young people with less qualifications. She was also right to say that such a mechanism should not be the subject of a bill, but should be integrated into a comprehensive economic policy on employment. The bill defends a measure that is favourable to young people, but it is not entirely satisfactory or sufficient. It must also be noted that the Government's decisions have led to a significant increase in the burden on social organizations, since it is now envisaged to add more than $130 billion to the social security debt. Of course you are not responsible for this situation, Mr Peltier, but how, in this critical context, which we do not yet know how to deal with, can the additional burden that you propose be financed? However, the Socialist and related group is sensitive to your call for mobilization in favour of young people. Like you, we have the desire and the will to act. You said earlier, Madam Minister, that companies were seeking information on the government's proposed learning arrangements. I am an elected candidate: my constituency is 800 kilometres from Paris – it is indeed a pleasure for me to be so far away from it! Major groups are in my territory, including Total and Sanofi, who were born there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u169	They're engaged!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u170	No doubt, but I'm offering you a game, minister: find ten companies in my constituency that offer apprenticeship contracts to young people. I'm committed to looking for myself! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Between speech and reality – as many colleagues have pointed out before me – there is, unfortunately, a large gap, not well experienced by young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u171	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u172	[[Smile]] He's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u173	He's a good socialist and yet he's alive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u174	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u175	The IDU and independent group welcomes the consideration of this bill defended by our colleagues in the Republican Group. As we know, the unprecedented crisis that we are going through will have consequences that are still difficult to estimate. Clearly, the health crisis will turn into a lasting economic crisis. The first effects are already noticeable. The number of jobseekers increased dramatically between March and April, with the number of unemployed increasing by 843,000. At the same time, the growth forecasts for 2020 are alarming, with an estimated drop in GDP of between 11 and 14%, which means less wealth production for our companies, i.e. job destruction and precariousness. There is an urgent need for accompanying measures to avoid a major social crisis. In the face of limited employment opportunities and a contracting labour market, young people are particularly vulnerable. In recent days, the Government has announced a number of measures to reinvigorate the hiring of apprentices with the provision of targeted support to enterprises. These measures are welcome, but they do not concern, far from it, all young people entering the labour market. I am convinced that, in these times of urgency, all the proposals on the table must be taken up. The proposal for a law by our colleague Guillaume Peltier aims to give new impetus to the employment of young people by exempting companies hiring a young person under the age of 25 from employers' contributions. It is based on a mechanism that had proven its worth during the 2008 crisis, the "zero loads" scheme for TPEs. According to an evaluation by DARES, after the 2008 crisis, this aid had first been provided to companies in the accommodation and catering sector. In other words, it is particularly relevant for a sector that is now very penalised by administrative closures. Hotel-restoration and, in a cascade, the entire supply chain of suppliers is a priority sector in terms of lower costs. Beyond this particular case, it is the whole of our economic fabric which is in difficulty and which must be accompanied in the recovery. Our group therefore welcomes the bill, although it raises some questions, mainly as regards the scope of the bill. The proposed law provides for an exemption of up to 4.5 SMIC: this ceiling, which is probably too high, could have a boon effect. The rapporteur has tabled an amendment, which we will support, to limit the scheme to 2.5 SMIC. Finally, in order not to place an excessive burden on the social security accounts – we will have to pay the exemptions we propose in one way or another – we will propose an amendment to restrict the scope of the measure to small enterprises, those with fewer than fifty employees, and even very small enterprises. They are the ones who most need this boost in order to find room for manoeuvre to hire. In reality, because of the lack of signals sent to young people entering the labour market, we risk despairing a whole generation by condemning it to unemployment and insecurity. The bill proposes relevant tools that we would benefit from, although of course it must be part of a broader range of employment measures. Many issues were still pending and the French expected the Government to be clear and to remove the uncertainties. I am thinking, in particular, of all those who are currently seeking employment and who are beneficiaries of unemployment insurance. What will be their situation after 1 September 2020 with regard, in particular, to the rules for calculating compensation? In the face of a complicated recovery, we need more than ever a return to protective rules for workers, similar to those adopted during the 2008 crisis. As you will understand, our group will support this job-friendly scheme, which has already proved its usefulness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u176	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u178	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u179	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u180	The economic and social crisis that we are about to go through finds little comparison in the modern history of our country. The figures we are beginning to collect must alert us to its profound and lasting impact on employment and the risk of poverty and insecurity facing our people. The crisis caused by the covid-19 is not comparable to the crisis of 2010. Because it is first of all sanitary, it has required measures which have weighed heavily on social accounts, already weakened, and whose economic consequences have been aggravated by confinement. The social security deficit now stands at 52 billion euros, far from the 5 billion originally planned; It was 28 billion in 2010. The magnitude is therefore not the same and the social crisis that accompanies the economic crisis is expected to be dangerous. This is why simple economic stimulus measures will not suffice and the 2010 solutions will not be of any help, even if they have proven their effectiveness. Today, the issue of employment is of paramount importance. While the partial activity scheme saved it as much as possible, not all jobs could be saved, and the hirings were mostly frozen. The consequences are particularly marked in the tourism, hotel and catering sectors, especially since contracts are often short. Seasonals are very hard hit and long-lasting. Moreover, the crisis has been in the midst of a reform of unemployment insurance: the criteria for access to unemployment insurance have been restricted since November 2019 and the rules on compensation will be tightened as of September 2020. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will be working as you announced to us on a solution to the problem of seasonal unemployment in the fall of 2020, as these workers will not have been able to make a full season. The fear of an explosion of unemployment is therefore well founded, the figures published by Pôle Emploi confirmed this: in April there were 840,000 more jobseekers than in the previous month, an increase of 22.6%, an absolute record since 1996. Young people under the age of 25 are the most affected by this phenomenon. For them, the crisis is more than ever synonymous with uncertainty and, often, precariousness, the prospects for entry into the labour market moving away. However, since the abolition of the ARPE – aid for the search for the first job – in January 2019, there is no support for young people seeking their first job. Therefore, our group has already argued that the reflections on unemployment insurance should lead to accompanying and supporting measures for young people, in particular the opening of the AHR to young people under 25 years of age. The text before us proposes the exemption of employers' contributions for the employment of young people under 25 years of age. In this respect, our group is reserved, because contributions are already weakened, while social accounts are particularly degraded by the crisis. In addition, the proposed scheme is likely to have a boon effect, in particular because the exemption is intended to apply to wages up to 4.5 SMIC. Let us bear in mind that social contributions, which the bill describes as burdens, are in fact investments in our social protection system. In this area, however, we face many challenges, including the financing of our health care system and the construction of dependency. New exemptions seem to us to be all the more risky as the Government has become accustomed to not compensating for them and integrating them into social debt. In fact, these days we are looking at a bill transferring to the CADES, the social debt amortization fund, the debt related to the covid. If the proposed scheme does not seem appropriate to us, we must nevertheless pay more attention to the issue of young people's access to employment. The problem goes beyond our borders: according to the ILO, one in six young people in the world has lost their jobs. The Libertés et Territoires group expects more from the plan for learning presented last week by the Government, a first step which does not, however, include young people in higher education, at the master or engineer level, who may also be affected by learning and, above all, be affected by the crisis, especially those from less favoured families. While 700000 young people will enter the labour market in September, our ability to build their future is at stake. Let's not despair them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u181	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u182	Mr rapporteur, I understand, of course, that you are concerned about the employment of the 700000 young people who will enter the labour market, especially in view of the effects of the crisis; We're all worried about it. We will, however, oppose your bill for three reasons: the risk of a boon effect; a weakening of social protection; Finally, the policy of supply which you are asking yourself to propose – as with the previous proposal for a law – that the reduction of the cost of labour would be the alpha and the omega of any economic policy, whereas it is a policy of demand according to social and ecological criteria which we need, a fortiori in the coming period. I do not dwell on the risk of a boon effect, which is obvious – and I have not heard any answer to this objection – since the exemptions would be available even to companies that do not encounter any problems in hiring and therefore do not need them. I come to the risk of putting the covid's debt on the social security and UNEDIC accounts, on which I will rely on an excellent article by economist Michaël Zemmour published some time ago in Le Monde. The State has already initiated the process of constituting the exceptional social security expenditure on social debt by transferring it to CADES and, likewise, of retaining the exceptional expenditure of unemployment insurance on the liabilities of UNEDIC. This logic, which is also that of the legislation under discussion, undermines the future of our social insurances by making them bear the debt of the covid instead of entrusting the entire management of it to the state. On the revenue side, social insurance has already suffered its decline as a result of the recession, but also of the carry-over of corporate contributions, turning into cancellation. This is worrying because, as the last note of the High Council on the financing of social protection points out, the debt of the State and the social debt are not managed in the same way. While the social debt is intended to be repaid "interest and principal", according to the established formula, that of the State is managed in the long term and does not give rise to any repayment of the stock, only the interest being borne by the State. Thus, says Michaël Zemmour, if we create a social debt of around 100 billion euros in 2020, this will force CADES and UNEDIC to use 10 billion social resources per year for ten years to sponge it, which would inevitably harm social protection. If it is the State that takes over the debt, it will cost it no more than 1 billion a year, and again, because it will depend on the monetary policy of the European Central Bank – you know that we are advocating that the current debt due to the covid be transformed into perpetual debt in order to be managed more effectively. Beyond these figures, the risk of a weakening of social protection is of concern in a society where poverty will inevitably increase. Finally, with regard to the supply policy you are claiming, Eric Woerth stated earlier that the reduction in the cost of labour had always worked. Really? We will have to compare the data we have: just as the proof of pudding is that we eat it, so we cannot make such statements without basing them on examples of cases where the method has borne fruit. Pierre Cahuc, ultraliberal economist who goes so far as to question the need for SMIC, believes in an article co-written with Stéphane Carcillo that "the net cost of job creation by [the device] "zero charges" is therefore around zero". Indeed, we find it difficult to find the jobs created by the transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – into exemptions and by all the exemptions that the previous governments imposed on us on behalf of the same policy. The study most favourable to the CICE estimated that only 100,000 jobs were created, at a cost of EUR 100 billion. Obviously, it is better to work than to be unemployed. But this can be achieved through our proposals on state investment, ecological forklift, recruitment into the public service to develop public services, since we need a stronger state, and relocation. Finally, the most expensive thing for our society is capital. So let's take the dividends to reinject them into the labour market and for the benefit of those who produce wealth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u183	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u184	Discontinued studies, difficulty in obtaining alternance contracts, loss of employment: young people are the first collateral victims of the health crisis that has become economic. Their poverty rate is 25 per cent, 11 per cent higher than in the general population. The risk of a sacrificed generation is real. According to the ILO, more than one in six young people have been deprived of employment since the beginning of the covid crisis. Those who have retained their jobs have experienced a 23 per cent reduction in their working time. In France alone, where there are 8 million young people, or 12% of the population, 620,000 jobs have been destroyed, in particular under fixed-term contracts or temporary contracts. Although severely affected, the Government has been slow to respond to their plight. To date, 800,000 young people affected by the health crisis have received or were to receive €200 in assistance. Is that enough? I don't believe it! But is the bill before us a better way to alleviate this distress? I don't think so either. The Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group will therefore not vote for this text. The exemption from low-income charges already exists, Mr Peltier: this scheme, commonly referred to as "Zero contributions USSRAF", consists in significantly reducing the employer's burden on wages up to 2.5 times the SMIC. It benefits very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises as well as the employability of low-wage sectors. But it is rightly controversial, for in sectors employing a high level of pay, it can prove ineffective or even dangerous. I would also point out that young people who find it difficult to hire 2.5 SMICs are also, in some cases, discriminated against because of their origin. I therefore hope, my dear colleague, that you will also support the young people who are currently walking on the streets to denounce discrimination. For your part, you propose an exemption from employer charges up to 4.5 SMIC, or 6930 euros gross. As the Economic Analysis Board points out, social security is financed by contributions. However, the latter's financial situation is not fixed: it is a question of transferring to the CADES the debt due to the covid, which will already delay the clearance of deficits by ten years. Your proposal for a law could only make matters worse: it is certain that the loss due to the exemption will be unfavourable to social security, which will have to either reduce social protection or ask the State to fill the deficit. In fact, the measure would be beneficial only to employers, not to young people, nor to social security, that it would prevent the launch of the famous massive investment plan for hospitals expected from our fellow citizens. At the same time, our young people need strong answers regarding their professional prospects and, more generally, their future in society. We must provide them to him, not stick to an umpteenth political pirouette that would simply serve as a social alibi to your party, The Republicans. The Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group wants to give hope to young people. To that end, we have made concrete proposals that could benefit them directly. In addition to the learning measures you have announced, the minister, which we support, we hope that it is no longer possible for the employer not to pay internships that last less than two months. It is essential not to forget those who are furthest from employment and who are going to be the first to suffer from the social crisis ahead. We also propose an extension of the youth guarantee through the relaxation of eligibility criteria, the automatic renewal of the scheme for those who arrive at the end of their rights and an exceptional allocation to local missions. Finally, in the coming weeks we will propose the experimentation of innovative social actions, including the establishment of an RSA for children under 25 and/or a universal income of activity from the age of 18. Antoine Dulin, who sits on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, confirmed a few days ago that the first victims of the economic and social crisis are young people, variables of adjustment of the labour market. That's true, but I don't see what your bill would change. As it has been marching for months for the climate, for weeks against racism, fighting for its future, our youth is now to react. Let's hear it! We do not want a covid generation, but a world after created by and for young people. They have often been the first to show solidarity during confinement when it comes to helping their elders or people who are even more in difficulty than they are. For this reason, they deserve our support at least as much as the rest of the French. Do not give them the feeling that the older ones are protected while they are forgotten. Even at the top of the state, awareness of the risk of a conflict of generations seems to be emerging. I hope that the speech of the President of the Republic on Sunday will take this into account and will be guided by the interests of young people. In any case, our group will be very attentive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u185	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u186	The health crisis has had many repercussions; on the health of some French, first of all, but also on the organization of our lives, on human relations, and of course on the economy. Economists agree to predict one of the most serious crises in history. According to the OECD, France is expected to suffer a very sharp recession in 2020 with a fall in GDP of between 11% and 14%. This significant contraction will obviously have an impact on employment. The French Economic Observatory estimates that more than 1.8 million employees were directly affected by the containment and administrative closure measures, including 600,000 in the catering sector and 500,000 in the retail sector. We must therefore fear massive unemployment. Already the number of unemployed has increased by 7% in March, but only part of the month concerned with confinement, and the figures unfortunately continue to rise. Pôle emploi indicates that in April, the number of category A jobseekers increased by more than 22%, i.e. an additional 843,000 unemployed compared to March; The number of jobseekers is thus at its highest level since 1996, when 4575000 unemployed had been counted. The largest increase is for children under 25 years of age: over 149,800, an increase of 29%. If all age groups are and will be affected, it is therefore very young people who are the most vulnerable, and their entry into the labour market will take place under difficult and unprecedented conditions which cause them to fear a significant and lasting distance from the labour market. I would point out that nearly 700000 young people currently in training are expected to enter a labour market which is already severely disrupted in September. A whole generation could end up unemployed! We cannot remain inactive in the face of such a danger: it is an economic risk for our country that will have to take charge of these young people, but above all and above all a human risk: we cannot allow this generation to suffer the crisis in full without reacting. The bill proposes to encourage the hiring of young people by reducing the financial burden on the companies that would host them. Such motivations are commendable and the group acts together to share them. In order to remove some of the barriers to hiring, it aims to reduce the cost of work for the company recruiting a person under 25 years of age. The principle has already been used in the past, with varying degrees of success. The answer is partial, however, and we wish to amend the text of the bill. Firstly, the question arises as to whether the proposed scheme should cover all enterprises. Secondly, the proposed threshold – 4.5 SMIC – does not seem reasonable to us. We propose to lower it to avoid costly and inefficient off-the-shelf effects. Finally, the benefit of the exemption could be conditional on hiring in CDI in order to make employment more sustainable and to promote this type of contract, unfortunately too rarely offered to young people, which prevents them from making projects. When it comes to burden reduction, caution must be exercised if we are to be effective, especially since many measures have already been taken to reduce the cost of work, particularly on the lowest wages: CICE, liability pact, and then the conversion of the CICE into reductions in permanent contributions have considerably reduced the burden on remuneration below 2.5 SMIC. While the fiscal lever will certainly have to be used, there will have to be measures to combat early school leaving, measures to promote training and learning, measures to protect the most vulnerable young people and probably other measures to be developed collectively. In the face of the urgency, measures have already been put forward, in particular to ensure maximum security for trainees in vocational training, apprentices and training organisations. For example, the extension of apprenticeship and professionalisation contracts until the end of the training cycle was made possible to take account of the suspension of the reception of apprentices and trainees by training centres, as well as the length of time a young person may stay in an apprentice training centre awaiting the conclusion of an apprenticeship contract was increased from three months to six months in order to allow the person concerned additional time to search for an employer. In addition, a plan to boost apprenticeships of more than 1 billion was presented by the President of the Republic on 4 June: let us guarantee that young people will be able to find a path of excellence in training, and companies an opportunity to hire young people whose training corresponds to their expectations. But we must imagine a plan to boost the employment of young people of a wider scope, not only involving financial and fiscal measures. It is in broad consultation that solutions must be found so that our young people are not sacrificed to this crisis. We need to send signs to our youth so that they can regain their confidence. Old recipes, sometimes proven, can certainly be useful, but they must be adapted to the unique context we are experiencing. When 26 per cent of young people under the age of 30 live below the poverty line, it is clear that tax incentives alone will not suffice. Youth must be relied on to promote their access to self-reliance, which requires work and therefore training. The economic and employment recovery plan must therefore put youth employment as a priority: it is our policy responsibility, but more broadly our responsibility as adults towards a youth that we must support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u187	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u188	The health crisis we are going through is unprecedented in its scale and its economic and social consequences. From the beginning of the confinement, the Government has taken the necessary measures to support companies experiencing cash flow difficulties and to protect employees – the taking over of the partial activity by the State has thus kept several million of them in employment. But we are not done with the crisis and we now need a plan to revive our economy. When a crisis occurs, it is well known that the first ones affected are young people, regardless of their level of qualification, even if the few or not qualified are particularly so. The Government, like all of us on these benches, is determined to combat unemployment, which is rising again after reaching its lowest level at the beginning of the year since the 2008 financial crisis. Like you, rapporteur, our concern is great. We must mobilize again and again, collectively, to leave no one at the edge of the road. We will have to target aid to the most fragile, the least qualified and the least agile, because they will be – they are already – the first victims of this crisis. The situation is also difficult, if not very difficult, for companies whose activity has declined or even ceased completely since confinement. For them, the challenge is more survival than renewal of skills. They will therefore first try to save existing jobs before recruiting. Your bill incorporates a scheme to encourage hiring introduced in 2009, an exemption from charges that you want to extend to all businesses and to all young graduates under the age of 25. However, there is a risk that its effectiveness will be reduced as the lower labour cost policies introduced since 2014 have already significantly reduced the remuneration burden of less than 2.5 SMIC and, in particular, of less than 1.6 SMICs. Above all, beyond the boon effect it would bring and which has already been stressed by several previous speakers, the proposal targets young graduates, effectively excluding all young people with little or no qualifications,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u189	That's not true! You haven't read the text, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u190	Anyway, you didn't read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u191	... already in difficulties of occupational integration and for which the situation is likely to worsen. Like you, like us, the Government makes the issue of youth employment a national priority. He has undertaken major actions. After a 2019 year in which the number of apprentices increased by more than 16%, the upswing was expected to continue in 2020, which should have been an exceptional year in this area, but the crisis stopped the movement. However, a massive apprenticeship stimulus plan has just been presented, including exceptional support for apprentice employers. It will live up to the effectiveness of this path of excellence. In addition, a round of consultation with the social partners has just been launched, in which the project on youth employment is included. Youth is multiple, youth is varied. It is therefore essential to identify the typologies of young people in difficulty, to remobilise all the existing mechanisms – the contractualised path of accompaniment towards employment and autonomy, says PACEA, the Youth Guarantee, the civic service –, to ask about the meaning of the jobs helped and to support all innovative initiatives, whether they are aimed at young graduates, those who return from abroad after completing an internship or having granted themselves a year of cassure, those who are looking for a summer job to finance part of their studies or even to dropouts and young people who are not or are not qualified. They must be given the opportunity to achieve the objective we all have: to continue to support our young people towards autonomy and employment, to give them prospects for the future, to train and qualify them, to promote their social and vocational integration and to enable them to find their place in the city. The citizens of tomorrow are today's young people. In addition to young people, it is all those who are more or less distant from employment that will have to be supported by helping companies to restart, re-enter activity and recruit, but also by providing a wealth of financial support to all those involved in social and vocational support, be it suitable enterprises, enterprises for integration through economic activity or actors in the public employment service – Pôle emploi, Cap emploi, les missions locales – while continuing the reflection on the public services of integration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your proposal is interesting and will certainly enrich the content of the consultation that begins. We must all mobilize quickly, Government, parliamentarians, economic actors, actors of integration, elected territories as associations. Therefore, since we believe deeply in social dialogue and the key to ending the crisis lies not only in a proposal for a law, but in a larger set of measures and arrangements, which are the result of collective and shared reflection, the group of the Republic on the move will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u192	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u193	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u194	Guillaume Peltier is the author of a very good text that our group Les Républicains supports. Ladies and gentlemen, we may have done our utmost to avoid the health consequences of covid against our elders – the current committee of inquiry will tell us if we should have done more – but in order to avoid its economic and social consequences, we must also do our utmost for our young people. We must do everything we can to ensure that this generation is not sacrificed. And it is urgent: 750,000 young people will be on the labour market as early as September. This generation will have suffered a lot already. The baccalaureate is upset – and the baccalaureate is important, perhaps even more so in modest environments where parents have not had the chance to pass it – so that they are deprived of a rite of passage. Schooling is broken down, which applies not only to universities but also to professional high schools: we do not learn stone-cutting via the Internet. However, since March, the seniors have not attended the high school of the small town where I live and know well: the students will only be reunited for a week! As for the examination of the driving licence, it is equally disturbed, whereas obtaining this licence is the condition of autonomy, especially in our rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u195	That's right! It's a mobility tool!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u196	You have to know: a young person who was hoping to pass his licence in June is now being proposed a date in November! I told Mrs. Borne and I'm still waiting for her answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u197	You'll never get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u198	Probably. Young people also suffer the consequences of the difficulties of alternance training – I have heard your comments on this, minister, they are not lacking in interest and we will come back to it in a future debate. But right now, it's jobs they're going to be deprived of with this 11% recession! There were, remember, ladies and gentlemen, supporters of the decline before the crisis... We can't hear them anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u199	They're served!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u200	The OECD's worst case scenario even predicts a decline in activity of 14%. There will soon be a million more unemployed and the unemployment rate will rise from 8 per cent to at least 11 per cent. A dramatic situation. I hear about a plan for the automobile, Madam Minister, but I see that the site of Caudan, which is under Renault's responsibility, will be sold at auction without any other prospect, and I would like the Government to mobilize, I see what is likely to happen to the French Joint, Saint-Brieuc, which is under Hutchinson and therefore Total, and I hope that the Government will use its proximity to this group. What solutions can be found, even though we do not know what the rate of youth unemployment will be? Prior to the crisis, it was slightly less than 20 per cent. What level will it reach tomorrow: 27, 28, 30%? This is a question that I would like to get an answer to, minister. I received the other day, in my permanence, a sparkling young girl, eager to work, full of energy, who wants to invest in the beautiful region of Brittany, where she lives. What do we offer him? She holds a university degree in tourism technology: no doors will open for her in September.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u201	And it's not Pôle Emploi that will help him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u202	That's what we need to work on. Guillaume Peltier has the immense merit of formulating concrete, simple and accessible proposals. An automatic fee reduction, as soon as the CDI or CSD of more than six months is signed, is valid for all grants. It would also concern all young people. The analysis made by the majority group, which clearly did not read the text, is not yet complete. The previous speaker's intervention attests to this, since the latter seems to think that the scheme would be reserved for the most educated young people. It is actually intended for all young people under 25 years of age. It is therefore quite interesting. The proposed mechanism is limited in time, because, as a government party that is destined to return to business, we are making responsible proposals. He has also already been experienced, as has been perfectly demonstrated: he was successfully deployed in the time of Nicolas Sarkozy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, it is not expensive: the estimates – which you may contradict the conclusions – estimate its cost at EUR 200 million, compared to EUR 20 billion for a month of partial unemployment. Our request therefore concerns the equivalent of one hundredth of the cost of a month of partial unemployment! After spending EUR 20 billion a month on the protection of employed workers, cannot one hundredth of this amount be spent on helping young people who are knocking at the door of the labour market? That is the question that is being asked this morning and to which we must answer. We want to offer the keys to employment to young people. It's up to us to do it right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u203	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u204	If they have been less affected than others by the covid -19, it is the young people who are now on the front line of the economic crisis, whose effects will be felt for many years. The pandemic puts them in a triple shock: it challenges their job prospects, it disrupts their education – for those still following it – and it is a barrier for those who want to enter the labour market. With an unemployment rate of 20%, young people were already, before the crisis, particularly affected by this mass phenomenon. The elected member of the North that I am – specifically in the city of Denain, which is largely affected by unemployment, and not just that of young people – can only testify to this. In April, youth unemployment rose by almost 30%, affecting 150,000 of them. In the coming months, 700000 graduates should have entered the labour market. In its barometer on the integration of young graduates, the Association pour l'emploi des cadres reveals a staggering fall – 69% – in job offers for under-30s between April 2019 and April 2020. In order for young generations not to be sacrificed and not to become adjustment variables, youth employment must again become one of the national priorities, and even the priority of priorities. I am thinking, like my colleague, of all these young people – Michaël, Loïc, Manon –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u205	[[Rires on the SOC benches]] To Samir!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u206	...who come to our permanences and want to work. The purpose of this bill is to exempt from contributions the earnings of young people under the age of 25 who have been hired in the next two years. The text incorporates a mechanism applied after the 2008 crisis to TPEs, which the rapporteur wishes to extend to all companies and the vast majority of young graduates under the age of 25. If this proposal is perfect and the current crisis is quite different from that of 2008, it is worth highlighting the key issue of youth employment in the months and years to come. Experience has shown that young people are more heavily affected by major economic crises. Any arrangements to facilitate the employment of young people while avoiding the pitfall of creating a specific employment contract must be examined with the utmost attention – especially since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has remained discreet about the measures it intends to take to support young people towards employment. The text studied in committee had shortcomings, or even inconsistencies, which I hope, Mr rapporteur, will be corrected by the amendments that you could table. Thus, the scope of the exemption, which extends up to 4.5 SMIC, i.e. 6_927.39 euros gross monthly, does not appear relevant. It even seems almost disconnected from the realities of the field. In addition to the fact that young graduates under 25 years of age hired at more than 5000 euros net monthly must not be particularly numerous, the risk of creating a boon effect is real. The limitation of the scope of the exemption to 2.5 SMIC seems more relevant to us. On the other hand, and contrary to past arrangements, on which this proposal is based, the exemption would apply to all companies, including large groups. Is that really useful? It was SMEs and TPEs that were largely affected by the crisis. In these troubled times, they are more focused on their survival than on the transmission of know-how. It is all the more urgent to support them as a matter of priority, in order to prevent our economic fabric of proximity and the know-how associated with it from disappearing. It is also a measure of efficiency in public expenditure that we propose: experience from the application of similar schemes shows that it is when it comes to TPEs and SMEs that exemptions are most sought out and the most effective. Above all, the scheme does not take into account the specific situation of apprentices, although it is of particular concern for the 50,000 young people who could be dismissed on 1 September. Many of them have already been put into partial unemployment. Every crisis is an opportunity to be imaginative and reinvented. Strong action must be taken towards apprentices. It is essential to develop apprenticeships, to enhance manual skills and to implement strong accompanying measures for apprentices and host companies, which are often themselves TPEs and SMEs experiencing economic shock. With this in mind, it would have been appropriate to extend the proposals presented to apprentices. If we are not to remember the covid-19 generation as the one that has been sacrificed and kept out of the labour market, we must now mobilize for youth employment rather than simply announcing major consultations or promising a plan on youth employment in a few months' time. By the start of the school year, it will be too late: tomorrow's world begins today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u207	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u208	For too many years, young people in our country have been subjected to major economic and social difficulties. Unemployment in the 15-24 age group fluctuates around 20%, but is not eliminated. Eighty-seven percent of youth hires are in CSDs. The situation is even more complicated for young people with little or no qualifications: seven years after entering the labour market, only 21% of them have CDI. The health crisis has turned into an economic crisis, and we see 700000 young people entering the labour market, with great concern about their prospects for integration into employment. This bill has the merit of looking at the specific question of young people, but it does not offer a satisfactory answer in the eyes of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. First of all, the mechanism you are proposing is too broad and presents a risk of obvious bounty effects: it would apply to all wages below 4.5 SMIC, the six-month CSDs would be eligible and the exemptions would be granted largely without conditions. In addition, to plan social security revenues a little more in the context we know would be in contravention of current needs. More than ever before, while the health crisis is accompanied by a social and economic crisis, we need protection, social security that protects against life accidents and that finances care, work stoppages and unemployment. This is even more true when compensation for exemptions due to social organizations is no longer guaranteed. The reduction – or elimination – of contributions has become one of the main employment policies in France, causing tens of billions of euros to be lost each year to the State and to social protection bodies. Between 2013 and 2019, more than 26 billion euros of additional exemptions were granted, without conditions and without convincing results. It is not for me, nor for Communist Members, to deny that social and employer contributions can be a barrier to hiring small businesses with fragile cash flow. But the unconditional exemption related to the size of the enterprise, its economic health, the nature of the employment concerned or the wage conditions is not a good policy, given the low return between its cost to the State and the number of jobs created. In addition, during the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee devoted to the study of this bill, the terms "social security charges" and "cost of work" were used several times to refer to employer or wage contributions. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left contests the use of this vocabulary, which constitutes an attack on our social protection system. No, the fact that employers and employees participate together in the socialization of the risks faced by each and every one is not a burden, it is the very principle of social security in our country. The contribution is not a cost; And if it were, let us put it in perspective with the one represented by the declines in revenue in favour of the public services: closure of thousands of beds, reimbursement of medicines, closures of local hospitals, ever stronger restriction of the national objective of health insurance. That cost, who's talking about it? Who measures it? Have we not understood, in recent weeks, what disaster could lead to a health system weakened by years of budget cuts? However, I recognize some overall consistency: those who see the contribution as a simple burden or a cost to be eliminated are often those who repeated in the envis to the effect that thousands of hospital beds, or even whole establishments, had to be closed for reasons of economy. If this crisis teaches us something, it is the fragility of our economic model: we must now plan the economy of tomorrow and stop our flight forward towards an uncontrolled free trade, built with free trade treaties as harmful socially as ecologically. We want a strategist state to make the ecological transition an opportunity to create tomorrow's jobs. Valuing learning and guaranteeing continuous training for employees will be the keys to the success of our companies in the face of this immense challenge facing us. That is what the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will propose next week in this House, through the proposal for a law aimed at introducing a wage-training guarantee for the ecological and social transition of the economy, presented by my colleagues Gabriel Serville and Jean-Paul Lecoq. We will also defend, together with Elsa Faucillon, a resolution calling on the Government to create a universal student income. [[MM. Eric Coquerel and Jérôme Lambert applaud]] Colleagues, even if we share your concerns about youth employment, we will not support this text, because the non-compensatory exemptions do not meet the challenges of employment or tomorrow's economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u209	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u210	Eric Woerth, Damien Abad, all the members of the group The Republicans and I have taken note with greed of the compliments you have addressed to this text. The Minister and Mrs Firmin Le Bodo of the Action Group described the bill as laudable, while Mrs Elimas of the MODEM group, the attractive judge. Mr David Habib of the Socialist Group believes that it is virtuous and simple when Mr Zumkeller considers it relevant. Finally, Mrs Buffet, from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, recognizes the merit of its existence. I hope that, beyond these compliments, you will have the will to give concrete support to this text and to commit yourself, through your vote, to the youth. I particularly thank Marc Le Fur and Isabelle Valentin, who have fully understood the spirit and details of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u211	The various speakers referred to four obstacles to the adoption of the bill. First of all, they stressed very legitimately the cost of the scheme for social accounts. But as Éric Woerth rightly pointed out earlier, a worker costs the state much less than an unemployed person. It's obvious and a child would understand it. As long as we do not emerge from this absurd belief that the increase in charges, taxes and taxes is likely to improve the functioning of our system, we will not achieve anything. Yes, it's better to invest in the future. It is better to have workers than the unemployed, because, until further notice, no unemployed person can promote the balance of social accounts. Moreover, if you lack any ideas to restore this balance, there is a lead that we are many to propose on the benches of this assembly: to strengthen the fight against tax and social fraud, which, according to experts, cost us in total about 100 billion euros – 60 to 80 billion for tax fraud and 20 to 30 billion for social fraud. Then let's go! We could be much more intractable and firmer towards those who, at the top or bottom, attack the Republican pact and oppose the spirit of equality that enlivens it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u212	They're pretty high up there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u213	They're everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u214	Everywhere, indeed. There are the top profitors and the bottom profitors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u216	The ones that cost us the most are not down there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u217	This is the ideal of the Republic: to fight against those who cheat and fraud, wherever they are. It is they who must be attacked to finally rebalance the social accounts, instead of always charging the same – those of the middle class, the middle classes, the workers, the young and the old – the cost of our social model. Improvements can be made to the text, we heard. Well, now's the time! Amendments have been tabled and I hope we will study them carefully. Many of you have therefore proposed, as soon as the text is examined in committee, to lower the ceiling on remuneration to 2.5 SMIC. In fact, if Éric Woerth and I proposed 4.5 SMIC, it was by taking as a model the measures taken by the Government with regard to partial unemployment: it was not to separate young people into different categories. However, I have tabled an amendment to lower that threshold, and I know that others have tabled an identical amendment. If their adoption could be enough to get the bill accepted, we would be pleased to do so. I am, on the other hand, dubious with regard to the objection concerning the size of companies. Given the seriousness of the situation, it does not matter that the 700000 young people entering the labour market are hired by a TPE, an SME, a craftsman, a trader or a large group: finding a job is what can best happen to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u218	Of course, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u219	Mr Taché, you said that the burden-free arrangements already in force on existing low wages were sufficient. It is true that provisions have been adopted in recent years that are in the right direction. At present, however, for a salary of 1200 euros net, the annual weight of employer and wage contributions remains 7000 euros, and more than 10000 euros for a salary of 1500 euros net. Our proposal is therefore anything but anecdotal. For a company manager, 7000 or 10000 euros are a sum – for having been it myself for eight years, after a career as a professor of history and geography in national education, I know how much, like paperwork, the burden of burdens can hinder the hiring of a new employee. Some suggest that access to the AHR be given to children under 25 years of age. Of course, the most fragile and the poorest of us deserve the support of national solidarity, but it is a lack of respect for our youth to offer it for any social minimums, the RSA or unemployment benefits!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u220	[[Exclaims on EDS banks]] They don't want any more help!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u221	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] Emancipation is work. It is through work that one takes the social elevator, that one enjoys equal opportunities, that one attains autonomy, dignity, responsibility and freedom, which are essential values. Let us stop having a spirit of defeat for our youth, but have a spirit of conquest. Let's stop making life a threat, and let's make it a promise. It is not with the RSA that we can make our youth a happy youth. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, with regard to the complementary measures that many speakers have called for – and some of which are very interesting – I invite you to reread the Republicans' programme: neither Éric Woerth nor myself have ever claimed that the bills we are defending today would suffice, on their own, to correct our nation. There is a need for a general stimulus plan, which involves investment, the reorientation of savings, a reduction in taxes, VAT, contributions and charges, and, of course, an increase in wages, incomes and wages, so that, finally, in our country there is a new gap between income from work and income from assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u222	What world do you live in? That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u223	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u224	It is an idea that we all share: investing in youth is investing in our future. This is a top priority. That is why I welcome this debate, which will continue in a few days during the consultation with the social partners. Decisions must be made as early as July. The Government will be at the meeting. Of course, there is a risk that a generation will be sacrificed if we do not act. That is why we are fighting: we do not have the same idea of what to do, but we are all convinced that we must act vigorously to enable young people to emancipate themselves and build their future through training and work. There are, of course, black clouds and storm warnings, but there is no fatality. If we think the opposite, we won't help young people get away with it. We must act, but we must also show that success is possible. For my part, I still see a sign of hope. Of course, for thirty years, the endemic unemployment of young people has been the black spot of the employment situation in France and, for a generation, we have not been able to overcome it. Young people born twenty-five years ago have always been told that when they grow up, it would be difficult for them to find a job. It is an entire generation that has come to lose hope. However, the structural reforms we have carried out over the past three years have had the effect of reducing youth unemployment from 21% to 18%. It was a very high figure, Mr. Le Fur, but this beginning of improvement showed that the trend could be reversed. This movement must resume. Turning back to the bill, Mr rapporteur, although I confirm that it is a laudable intention, it remains a piecemeal one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u225	Complete it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u226	As Ms. Nathalie Elimas noted, she only acts on the cost of labour, in an undifferentiated manner. And it does not tend to help the most vulnerable and least qualified young people – on this point, your figures are wrong. Indeed, below the threshold of 1200 euros net – the amount you cited, that of the SMIC – we have eliminated virtually all employer contributions since 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u228	The proposed scheme could therefore help young graduates, but not those you have said you want to target as a priority: young people leaving apprenticeship or vocational high school or those who remain unqualified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u229	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u230	The intention is commendable, but you miss your own target. It would therefore be best to take a few more days of reflection, as is our intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u231	Always wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u232	We are in the middle of a discussion with the social partners and, in the consultation which the President of the Republic has asked me to carry out with them, the employment of young people is at the top of the list: we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u233	Always report, while the opportunity is given to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u234	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Do not take isolated measures: we must aim just at the first shot. I repeat that we will have the opportunity to discuss this again, but despite his good intentions, I do not think that this proposal is adequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u235	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u236	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, who is on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u237	Mr Peltier, you did not mention La France insubmissive among the groups that would have found any positive aspect of this bill – and for cause! Indeed, if we acknowledge the importance of the problem you are raising, the solutions we are advocating are in contrast to those you are proposing. You are, however, using a rather skilful rhetoric: in your opinion, the exemption from employer social security contributions would give purchasing power to those whom you refer to as the middle class – basically, it would increase the income of the labour force. Our design is totally different. In our view, contributions are a deferred wage, the result of a socialization of the wealth produced, decided collectively by the workers for the purpose of solidarity and protection. Contributions are therefore in no way separate from labour income – on the contrary, they are part of it. Whatever you say, therefore, the exemption ultimately weakens social protection, and hence the protection of workers, including their purchasing power. I would remind you that if our country did not enter a recession after the 2008 subprime crisis, it was due in particular to the social mechanisms that allowed us to boost, despite everything, the purchasing power at the time when the private market was sluggish. Whatever the point of view, when you denounce what you call social "burdens" – the choice of the term is not neutral! –, you actually blame yourself on the income from work. In our view, the opposition is not between what you call assistance and work – assistance being only the protection given to those who, for one reason or another, are deprived of work – but between the income of capital and that of labour. For the past 30 years, companies have been given gifts, given certain advantages – such as the exemptions that you offer – without asking for any consideration, and there is a tendency to increase both unemployment and profits, for lack of assurance that the surplus-value generated by the production force actually goes towards income from work and employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u238	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u239	I would like to point out that this bill is based on a conviction that we defend with our hearts. Indeed, there is a strong obligation for the nation to prevent a generation from being sacrificed. We have been saying this for weeks, and we have been saying it even before the debate is in the public square, because that is how we feel it and because this issue goes back to all the territories that we all represent here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u240	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u241	It is basically a question, as with our first bill, of asserting that unemployment is not a fatality. It's not about staying on the beach waiting for the wave to break out and putting things back on the next day. Of course we have to find medium- and long-term answers, structural answers, but it is now that we have to play the job partition if we do not want to make it a funeral walk. We have to act, and fast. We do not propose a revolution, but to lower the cost of working when hiring young people. It's already worked. We are in front of a two-way door: the first concerns employees in part-time unemployment, who must return to work, and the second concerns young people who, after studying, apprenticeship or training, first appear on the labour market. Instead of unlocking this door, you send solutions back the next day. It's mid-June. You who have responded in a week to the coronavirus and confined everyone in a single day, you should be able to react quickly...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u242	Of course, there's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u243	...and put the necessary means in place to respond to the economic emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u244	But if a proposal does not come from the majority, it is not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u245	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u246	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u247	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We ask you to reason and to deal otherwise than with dilatory measures to the next wave of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u248	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u249	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You defend young people; So do we. We do not reject this bill so much as the fact that it is isolated. You are right to say, Mr. Le Fur, that the bill concerns all young people under the age of 25. But the victims of this crisis will still be the majority of those with little or no qualifications: this is what I unanimously said during a video conference in which I participated this morning, representatives of inclusive companies and integration professionals. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We cannot simply vote on this bill when there is so much to do in a global way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u250	Vote this one already, submit others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Peltier, you are talking about the problem of social fraud, but I would like you to mention the problem of non-use of rights, which I have been working on since the beginning of the quinquennium. Today, non-use is much more frequent than fraud. I do not deny that it is necessary to deal with these two problems, but we must talk about both. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You mentioned emancipation through work. But, damn it, since the beginning of the quinquennium, our minister and the majority have been working with this goal in mind. However, we must not deceive ourselves. As Vice-President of the National Union of Local Missions, I can assure you that there is a whole youth audience that is not put to work so easily. These young people need accompaniment, a fortiori in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u252	The argument is incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u253	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I have before me two amendments, Nos 8 and 7, which can be presented together. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u254	As we have already said, we support this proposal. This does not prevent us from wanting to avoid the effects of a boon. Young people's employment must of course be supported, but let us not forget that some of them are still hired in a traditional way, mainly in large companies. Therefore, it would be a shame to spend a mere loss of money that could be used for other purposes. With Amendment No 8, we propose limiting the exemption to enterprises with fewer than 50 employees. No 7 is a fallback amendment which provides for it to be limited to enterprises with fewer than 11 employees. As was said in the general discussion, a better dart would allow more resources to be devoted to companies that really need it, especially in areas of great suffering such as hotels and restaurants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u256	I am in favour of lowering the exemption ceiling to 2.5 SMIC, but not giving priority to TPEs and SMEs – even if I understand your intentions. The situation is so serious that it is preferable to allow a large company to hire a young person through this scheme, regardless of his qualifications or training, rather than to leave him unemployed. Every company must become aware of the violent situation facing our youth. The urgency is such that the exemption cannot be subject to criteria such as the status or size of the undertaking. We favour a broad approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u258	Disadvantaged, to the extent that he opposes the whole bill for the reasons I have already mentioned. However, I would like to return to a question of method which is not trivial. To get out of the crisis, and to really solve the problem of youth unemployment, the country's economic and social forces must mobilize. One measure alone is not enough. All economic and social actors must make this a priority – youth employment statistics show that it is a necessity. In this respect, the ongoing consultation, which will last another ten days, and which involves joint work, co-construction with the social partners, is essential because it allows for both a broader view and more targeted measures. This is how the machine can be engaged. For all these reasons, a piecemeal approach does not seem desirable. Even by limiting the scope of the exemption, as provided for in these amendments, this approach is not the right one for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u259	This approach is not the right one for you because it comes from the Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u260	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u261	With this bill, our idea is not to help businesses but to help young people. You therefore commit, Mr Zumkeller, what was once called a countersense in French public education. Whether they enter a company of 49 or 50 employees, young people must receive the same assistance. Our concern is employment. Minister, I see something interesting in your remarks. You said you needed time to think. I understand, we're not a few days away.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u262	We're talking about only ten days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u263	We have already seen the same phenomenon on the occasion of other proposals that we have made in recent months: we are launching an idea and, later, in one way or another, you are taking it back. We don't own our ideas. If they're good, you can take them back. However, it is not pointless to quote its sources, it is even a common practice, if not recommended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u264	That's all you're asked for!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u265	Maxime Minot, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u266	We will judge your evolution as we review future government-based texts. On the other hand, I ask you: at what level do you estimate the unemployment rate of young people in the coming months? I acknowledge that it had fallen before the crisis, reaching 18%. It has also fallen throughout Europe. It is also known that the unemployment rate for all categories is expected to reach 11 per cent. But what about the young people? You have to give us figures because they will make us aware of the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u267	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u268	We do not make a contradiction by limiting the scope of this measure to small and medium-sized enterprises. As is well known, the unemployment of young people will mainly affect young people with no qualifications or low qualifications, who already faced difficulties before the crisis in finding a job. It is also known that it is rather the TPEs and SMEs, in specific sectors such as construction, hotels, catering or other industrial sectors, who tend to hire this category of young people. It is therefore appropriate to reserve the measure to undertakings of this size and sector. I understand the logic followed by Guillaume Peltier, which is to address all companies because of the massive nature of the current problem, the "explosion" of the labour market under the effect of the economic and social crisis. However, if we were to set priorities, in particular to ensure that the country's social accounts and public finances are not overly unbalanced, then we may need to focus more specifically on this category of young people and the type of companies that employ them primarily.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u269	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u270	The fight against youth unemployment brings us all together, as we have seen. Minister, you mentioned the idea of acting collectively. That is why Agir together wanted to table these amendments on this bill which we, you and I, have described as laudable by its intentions. Amendment No 4 is intended to limit the benefit of the exemption to permanent employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u272	I thank you, as well as all the other Members who have done the same, for having tabled an amendment because it demonstrates your interest in this bill. The situation is urgent, we cannot wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u273	If that's a good idea, you have to take it back now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u274	So much the better if other ideas, other proposals are put forward in the coming weeks, but our young people are waiting for very concrete answers today. Therefore, to say that the idea is good but that we will examine it later is not a valid argument. On this very serious issue, we cannot postpone. With regard to Amendment No 4 and the comments made by Pascal Brindeau, I will give the same reply as Mr Zumkeller. Of course, if priorities were to be set, targeting small businesses or CDIs would be in the right direction. But, once again, the current situation is too serious. That a company offers a CDI to a young person is ideal. But if she offers her a CDD of at least six months, given the circumstances, it is already a prospect of hope. And that's what we care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u275	Hope is now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u277	For the sake of consistency, I will of course propose a withdrawal. I take this opportunity to respond to Mr. Le Fur. I'm not making any forecasts. I do not believe in the crystal ball of politicians, whose job is to make politics, not statistical forecasts. I trust the serious people whose job it is. We've known a little more about this in the last few days. INSEE, like the Government, has reviewed the prospects for growth: the recession is expected to be 10 or 11 per cent. On this basis, DARES, which reports to the Ministry of Labour, was able to carry out simulations and concluded that the overall unemployment rate would likely be 11.5 per cent, unless vigorous action allowed for a change in this trajectory. The results obtained by the Bank of France are the same; those of the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, are slightly higher but are in the same order of magnitude. We do not currently have a forecast of the youth unemployment rate, which is calculated differently – I will not go into the technical details. On the other hand, we have a quantitative forecast that reflects the magnitude of the problem and the need to debate it. DARES estimates that 165,000 to 300,000 young people could be unemployed by the end of the year. They would be in addition to the 500,000 young people currently unemployed in our country. The total would thus reach 700000 to 800,000. Yes, we must act quickly – we agree with the rapporteur – but it is worth a few more days to adopt an overview, to better target the measures to be taken and to win the support of the economic and social forces. The debate we have today is useful, it moves our thinking forward, but it has not yet come to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u278	He will represent his bill in June, we have a new niche!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u279	We're wrong to be ahead of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u280	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u281	Minister, I understand that it is not so simple to make these calculations. However, if I have heard the figures in the overall forecasts, the youth unemployment rate, which was around 18 to 19 per cent before the crisis, could reach about 30 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u282	You have a basic computational problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u283	No, that's roughly the same as your numbers. What we must remember is that the situation is very serious. We must therefore act quickly and decisively. I therefore take this opportunity to reply to Mrs Firmin Le Bodo that it is not time to make an ideal choice. The two terms of the alternative are not, on the one hand, the companies that propose a CDI and, on the other hand, those that propose a CDD – a CDI being of course preferable to a CDD, even if it is six months old. But the painful choice we have to make is between the absence of activity and the possibility of a six-month CSD. It's worth fighting for a six-month CDD, especially since we're talking about young people who want to build a CV.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u284	Absolutely, that's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u285	However, the reference to a six-month CDD on a CV is often evidence that the young person has worked, that he has discovered the world of business. A CDI is of course preferable, but, if I may, it is a rich man's problem. In the face of the test we face, a CDD is a good thing, from the moment it is at least six months, as foreseen by Mr Peltier's bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u286	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 5. I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u287	Mr Peltier, you spoke earlier about "obstacles". In our view, the major obstacle to your bill is the limit of 4.5 times the SMIC. In order to be constructive, we have tabled this amendment to reduce this threshold to 2.5 times the SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u288	Mr Guillaume Peltier has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u289	As we have said in committee and in this debate, for the sake of being constructive on the one hand and in the name of an ideal of justice on the other, this amendment also aims at lowering the exemption ceiling to 2.5 times the SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u291	I understand the intention, but even by setting the limit of 2.5 times the SMIC, that is to say a little more than 3000 euros net per month, and given the burden exemptions that already exist, young people with little or no qualifications would still not be affected by your bill. The opinion is therefore still unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u292	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u293	These are good amendments. Guillaume Peltier explained very well earlier that the ceiling of 4.5 SMIC had been chosen in mirror of the 4.5 SMIC that you had also chosen for partial unemployment; I imagine that this scheme also concerns young people under 25 years of age. We therefore have no problem with lowering this ceiling. I often hear a number of those elected by the majority criticise this bill on the grounds that it would be isolated and therefore insufficient. However, we have never said that this is the only action to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u294	Let's at least do this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u295	[[Smile]] We are in a somewhat special exercise of examining various bills. Look at our entire recovery plan and you will have a comprehensive view of what we intend to implement! We can go with you. We do not want to claim the paternity of these measures – at last, perhaps a little bit... We would just like to point out that we are at the origin, but that's all! What is important is that it works. We must accompany the recovery with specific measures for learning – that goes without saying – or on internships. Today, young people do not find an internship to validate their training, whereas German companies tend to maintain their offer of internships. So some young graduates start to go abroad because they are welcomed there better than in France to continue their studies. Maybe they'll stay there. All these skills are leaving and may not return. Beyond the subject of the "sacred generation" – an expression that we have used to emphasize the importance of what is being played – this is a major issue for our country. So we can't take things lightly. Extend student status, for some time, for those who do not find a job, so that they retain social protection! You can take a multitude of initiatives, but the heart of this accompanying plan will have to be, at some point, reducing the cost of work to send a signal to companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u296	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u297	I may have misunderstood your speech, minister, but I do not think you have understood the meaning of these amendments. You explained that this amendment would prevent employees and low-skilled workers from benefiting from the scheme. The opposite is true: the device will apply up to 2.5 times the SMIC. For our part, we believe that these are very good amendments which will, precisely, reserve the scheme to those who are furthest from the labour market, to those who are the least qualified, to those whose wages are the lowest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u298	It's always the middle section that has nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u299	We will therefore support these amendments, which are in the right direction and will give us the means to support youth employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u300	How can we vote against such a measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u301	I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u302	It is intended to protect young employees on fixed-term contracts by providing that the "zero-burden" scheme does not apply if the CSD is broken at the employer's initiative or by a conventional break within three months of hiring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u303	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u304	We are in favour of anything that can help young people and help businesses. I am therefore in favour of your amendment, which I believe is fair and relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u305	It's worth talking about national unity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u306	National unity is only in one direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u307	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor in support of Amendment No 1 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u308	As Article 1e r has not been adopted, this amendment no longer makes any sense: I do not see how we can ask the Government for a report on the evaluation of Article 1e r which no longer exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u309	[[Smile]] It happened!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u310	I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u311	As all the articles and amendments containing the additional article have been rejected, the bill is also rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-11-O1233.u312	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law to save the tourist accommodation, coffee and catering sectors by introducing a reduced value added tax rate of 5.5% until 31 December 2020; Discussion of the proposal for a law aimed at cancelling, the time of the state of emergency health, the social and tax charges of companies having access to the solidarity fund created by Order No. 2020-317 of 25 March 2020; Discussion of the proposal for a law to allow the departmental councils to grant subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises and industries and to vulnerable artisans, in particular the tourism sector, by the crisis of the covid -19; Discussion of the proposed legislation to exempt protection masks, hydro-alcoholic gels and any disinfectants related to the fight against the covid epidemic -19 from value added tax. The meeting is adjourned.
