ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u1	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the amendment to the Convention of 15 April 1999 between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Botswana with a view to avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion and fraud with regard to income taxes (No. 2630, 3352).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Tourism, the French from abroad and the French-speaking world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u3	To one day, we met for the thirty-four years of Bostwana's independence: yesterday was the national holiday of this country, which is at the heart of our debates today. France is right to be interested in Botswana. This stable and peaceful country has become a model of parliamentary democracy, as demonstrated by the successful holding of the October 2019 general elections. It also has the highest human development index in sub-Saharan Africa. It is one of the most prosperous African economies with a GDP of $19 billion for a population of 2.3 million in 2018, representing a GDP per capita of more than $8,000 in 2018, the highest in Southern Africa. It has reached the status of upper middle-income countries, thanks to a growth rate of almost 5 per cent per year over the decade. It aims for a transition to a knowledge-based economy. France is right to support Bostwana with strong governance, robust economic indicators and a diversified productive base. We have an excellent bilateral relationship with this country, which was boosted in 2019 by the opening of the Embassy of Bostwana in Paris. Our aim is to support this country in its diversification effort, by making available our expertise and investments, particularly for the protection of the environment and biodiversity, which is very rich there. This support also involves the further implementation of a long-term political, economic and cultural partnership. It is in this context that you have to decide on a key text not only for our bilateral cooperation, but also for the recognition of the efforts of an exemplary African State. The amendment to the Convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Botswana, which is before you, aims to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and fraud in relation to income taxes. I must remind you that, on 27 July 2017, France and Botswana signed an amendment to their convention which introduces a new administrative assistance clause for the exchange of information: it will contribute to a broad strengthening of the already important attractiveness of this country. This new assistance clause allows us to align with the latest OECD standards – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development: France had also proposed to Bostwana to modernise our information exchange procedures by 2010. The work was conducted over several years. It was only when the OECD Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes estimated in 2017 that Botswana was at the meeting that we signed the amendment amending Article 26 of the Convention. While maintaining the level of data protection requirements, it aims to extend the scope of administrative cooperation between the tax authorities of the two countries. To this end, the amendment extends the scope of the exchange of information beyond the taxes covered by the Convention to cover taxes of any kind. Under certain conditions, this information may also be used in the fight against money laundering, corruption and the financing of terrorism. It refers to an obligation of means, which is incumbent on the parties, in the transmission of the information. This amendment recognizes Bostwana's progress in transparency. This is why France, by an order of the Minister of Public Accounts and Action of 6 January 2020, removed this country from its list of non-cooperative states and territories – ETNC. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] These are the broad lines and the balance of this bill. It will contribute to strengthening the strategic relationship with Bostwana with a view to creating a long-term economic, political and cultural partnership between Europe and Africa, dear to the heart of the President of the Republic, which will improve human development and economic development in the service of people's lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u4	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u5	Having been asked to present you today with an amendment to a tax convention between France and Botswana, I would like to begin by reminding you of the importance of the bilateral relations between our two countries. Botswana is a southern African country with 2.25 million of the richest people on the African continent. Its economy is still highly dependent on the mining sector, which, on average, accounts for one fifth of gross domestic product, and in particular diamond production, which accounts for 80 per cent of exports. However, the Government of Botswana seeks to diversify its economy and encourages tourism, which accounts for 20 per cent of GDP: one third of the territory is made up of parks and nature reserves. Until the beginning of the year, Botswana had enjoyed strong economic growth of 5% on average since 2010. Like many other countries, however, he was very strongly affected by the crisis. It is important to note that growth in Bostwana benefits the population more than in other African countries. It is the third sub-Saharan African country according to the Human Development Index, behind Mauritius and Seychelles. This country is also considered democratic. It is in this context that France has strengthened its diplomatic relations with him: the opening of a full-function Botswana embassy in Paris in March 2019 bears witness to this. The bill before us today should also help improve our bilateral relations. It authorizes the approval of an amendment to a tax convention which, signed in 1999 and entered into force in 2003, was intended to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and evasion in relation to income taxes. In fact, no legal breach of this Convention has been identified to date. The amendment to this 1999 convention that we are considering, signed in Gaborone on July 27, 2017, was discussed in the Council of Ministers on March 20, 2019 and adopted on first reading by the Senate on January 30, 2020. Article 1, which amends Article 26 of the 1999 Convention, relates to the exchange of information. It takes word for word from the latest OECD model tax convention on income and wealth published in 2017. Article 2 of the amendment specifies the conditions for its entry into force. For France, it shall apply from 1 January 2018, for Bostwana, from 1 July 2018. It will have little impact on the tax trade between our two countries, so far few, although it can improve their content and efficiency. There are only about 20 French companies in Botswana and this country is not in a position of tax competition with France. Tax cooperation between our two States has so far raised no difficulties. This amendment is above all a technical update, which brought Botswana out of the French list of non-cooperative states and territories by an order of 6 January 2020 – the country had been placed on this list by an order of 4 April 2012. This appointment, which served the country's international reputation, could have subjected it to tax sanctions. In recent years, Botswana has made many efforts on tax transparency, participating in OECD initiatives on the subject. In 2017, he joined the inclusive framework of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project – tax base erosion and profit transfer, BEPS. It is important to note that this country is not considered a tax haven. However, in the report I expressed reservations about the operational capacity of the country to respond to any type of request for information from France within a reasonable time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u6	That's nicely said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u7	...not because of a lack of will, but because France's demands sometimes require complex tools that Botswana does not possess. In addition, Botswana is still on the European Union's grey list. If he were to pass on the blacklist, he would be automatically reinstated in the French list of ETNCs. More generally, France would still be able to return Botswana to the list of ETNCs if it felt in the future that Botswana was no longer in compliance with the 1999 Convention and its amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I would like to conclude on a positive note by recalling the country's commitment to continue its efforts on tax transparency. It was receiving international technical assistance in that regard and was willing to do so. That is why I invite you to vote unreservedly in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u8	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, Deputy Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u9	I apologize to the chairman of the committee, Marielle de Sarnez, who asked me to represent her at this sitting. On this occasion, I would like to remind him of our full support and, in particular, that of the members of the committee. The fact that this bill is being examined in public makes it possible, first of all, to recall how important it is for our Foreign Affairs Committee to examine tax treaties. These conventions are strategic in bilateral and multilateral relations, since they have an impact on the ability of States to levy taxes, a major issue of sovereignty. The rapporteur, Christophe di Pompeo, whose excellent work I welcome, has fully recalled the importance of the text we are considering. This text helps to strengthen our bilateral cooperation with Botswana, a country known for its dynamic economy and political institutions considered among the most stable and transparent on the African continent. However, our discussion is taking place at a very special time that we cannot hide. This southern African country is also suffering from the health and economic crisis. According to the Ministry of Economy and Finance of Botswana, GDP is expected to fall by 13.1% between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021. The crisis severely affects the mining and tourism industries, which are the two main drivers of the economy. Apparently, this agreement seems very simple, as it merely updates Article 26 of the 1999 Convention on the Exchange of Information between our two countries, so that it conforms to the latest model provided by the OECD. However, it will have a significant impact on Botswana, since it will finally allow it to emerge from the French list of non-cooperative states and territories. The fight against international tax evasion and fraud has been strongly encouraged in recent years by the G7 and the G20. In this regard, the OECD has played a major role: since 2000, it has been leading the Global Forum on Transparency and the Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, which now brings together more than 150 countries, including France and Botswana. In 2013, the OECD also launched an action plan on tax base erosion and profit transfer, known as BEPS. In 2017, this plan was transformed into a multilateral convention, which France ratified. Botswana has joined the inclusive framework, committing to develop review procedures for the four minimum standards of the BEPS project and to establish follow-up mechanisms for the other points of the project. As you can see, cooperation on tax transparency is progressing, and this agreement is also contributing to it; I therefore invite you to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u10	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u11	The Communist MEPs wanted to allow the debate on the amendment to the convention of 15 April 1999 between France and Botswana in order to point the finger at international tax policy and its drifts. The amendment amends Article 26 of the Convention between France and Botswana on the Exchange of Information to bring it into line with the latest OECD international standards. This seems positive, since through the signing of this Convention Botswana states that it wants to get out of the opacity in tax matters. It should be noted that the signing of the text will result in the withdrawal of the country from the French list of non-cooperative states and territories on which it had been on since 2012. In this connection, the Communist MEPs also question the relevance of making automatic the withdrawal of a country from the list of ETNCs once a tax convention is signed. Indeed, in the case of Botswana, there is a gulf between intentions and reality – the rapporteur referred to it. The Communist Members are not the only ones to question, since the European Union did not consider it appropriate to remove Botswana from its grey list this year, which punishes the uncooperative states in tax matters, giving it a year to comply with the European criteria in this field. The OECD World Forum also downgraded Botswana's rating in 2019 – the minister only mentioned 2017... – due to the too slow a response to requests. It is therefore permissible to wonder – and the concern is shared by the Senate – about France's interest in removing Botswana from its list, an initiative whose effect is to remove the country from the European list of ETNCs. The automatic nature of these developments places suspicion on the probity of all bilateral and multilateral tax conventions. We must therefore remain extremely vigilant about the use made of these conventions and how they are actually implemented on the ground. The issue of international taxation is part of a globalization that today rhymes more with tax avoidance, social savagery and ecological disaster than with respect for peoples and our planet. International tax avoidance strategies, as my colleagues Éric and Alain Bocquet and Fabien Roussel have shown many times, use many tools to circumvent the tax system, including legally! Let's take an example: a French multinational like Total – for whom I have a particular interest since I live in front of one of its refineries in Le Havre – settles in Botswana to exploit oil. Nothing prevents us from thinking that France, attached to its industrial flagship, has signed a bilateral tax convention to facilitate Total's tax and financial operations on the spot: this could quite be one of the reasons for today's vote... But the same multinational could also come to negotiate its tax rate directly with government policy makers. Justin Koné Katinan, former budget minister of Laurent Gbagbo, explains this perfectly: "The idea of a reduction in corporate tax to promote its implementation in Africa is a great scam mounted by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank [...] All African countries have embarked on competitive policies to develop very flexible investment codes hoping to attract as many investors as possible. He states that if Côte d'Ivoire had had a corporate tax rate similar to the European average, this would have brought about an additional US$6 billion in the caisses of that state in 2015. Globally, such money could be used for health, education, agriculture, water, or any other public policy. With regard to the text on Botswana, the Communist Members will refrain, by proposing to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, perhaps in conjunction with the Senate, from evaluating these bilateral tax treaties by the end of the quinquennium, in order to know the real effect on taxation and interest for states, including France. The vice-president of the committee, present here, will be able to relay this request – at this moment, I too have a thought for Marielle de Sarnez, who may listen to us. This will allow us to measure whether these phenomena are widespread, what sum would represent the tax avoidances I have mentioned and, above all, to make proposals at the Quai d'Orsay to modify the models of these conventions, in order to make them more stringent. We may then be able to contribute, on our scale, to the fight against tax evasion in the world; That is also what I expect from the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u12	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u13	The amendment that we are proposed to approve does not call for opposition on the part of our group. As we are in a state of uncertainty about the evolution of the covid-19 epidemic in our country, and as many of our fellow citizens are concerned about the economic situation and crisis that we are facing, the ensuing debate, on the extension of the transitional regime established after the state of emergency, seems to me to be quite different in scope. So I'll be brief. The Left Democratic and Republican Group felt that this amendment deserved a classic debate rather than a simplified examination procedure. Of which, but it must be recognized that this is primarily a technical text, which provides for the extension of the scope of the exchange of information to all taxes beyond income tax alone, the principle of the use and secrecy of this information for tax purposes, and the introduction of appropriate measures to enable the exchange of information to be effective. I understand that the underlying issue is whether Botswana is on the list of non-cooperative tax states and territories – to date, the European Union has chosen to keep Botswana on its grey list. However, as has been said in committee, Botswana is not a tax haven. The amendment allowed him to leave the French list of ETNCs in January 2020. That countries that were not cooperative, concerned about their reputations, make efforts to become cooperative is in itself a reason to support the bill, as it is proof of the effectiveness of this type of list. However, our group continues to call for harmonisation of the various lists at European level. What is true of Botswana cannot be true of other countries, which are indeed tax havens. If we are alone, our action will remain ineffective or even counterproductive. This policy must therefore be pursued at European Union level. That being said, the position taken by this House on this international text cannot be regarded as a message concerning the economy of Botswana. Again, we are discussing a technical adjustment, the scope of which should not be overstated in the light of the few tax exchanges between our two countries. Nevertheless, it is justified because the country has made efforts to ensure transparency and adapt to international rules, which the rapporteur has taken care to recall in his report. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] That is why the IDU and Independent Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u14	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u15	As previous speakers have already pointed out, we are dealing with a technical text, but the dual objective of which is to prevent tax evasion and fraud in relation to income taxes and to avoid double taxation. Our group will vote in favour of this amendment, which aims above all to recognise Botswana's political will to improve tax transparency and to endorse its exit from the French list of non-cooperative states and territories. Indeed, it seems important to encourage countries showing willingness to cooperate in tax matters – all the more so as our relations with Botswana are increasingly close, as evidenced by the installation of a Botswana embassy in Paris in March 2019. With regard to double taxation, which the amendment tends to prevent, as with tax evasion, Botswana seems to be showing goodwill. It has established a more continuous relationship with the European Union with the aim of being removed from the famous grey list on tax transparency and associated risks. It is therefore important for us to provide technical support to our Botswana partner, so that he can respond effectively to requests for information, particularly in terms of deadlines. It is important to take this element into consideration when judging the application and effectiveness of such agreements with countries with different tax institutions and with varying degrees of technical capacity. We hope, in particular, that this agreement will prompt Botswana to move quickly towards the automatic exchange of information, in line with the expectations of the OECD, translated into the Berlin Agreement. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the OECD and its tax director, the French Pascal Saint-Amans, who is working to foster more virtuous international behaviour on the part of states and businesses. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the contributions of the Anti-Fraud Act concerning the definition of non-cooperative states and territories. Let us remember that the effective fight against tax havens is also to regulate and prevent countries from playing the least-so-called. We must help a number of countries not only not to become predators, but also not to become targets of predatory states. There are, moreover, other tools than the qualification as non-comparative states and territories to combat fiscal crime. In this regard, a qualitative approach should be adopted, as highlighted in the report by Émilie Cariou and Pierre Cordier published in September 2019, following that of our colleagues Bénédicte Peyrol and Jean-François Parigi. The report provided an interesting set of recommendations that would be relevant to the development of our future international tax policy. I repeat, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will vote in favour of approving this amendment, with the will and hope that these technical exchanges will enrich and intensify relations between our two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u16	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u17	I address my personal and political friendly thoughts to Marielle de Sarnez, who was unanimously re-elected this morning as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I also have a thought for Christian Hutin, elected Vice-President. Friendly thoughts because Marielle de Sarnez has succeeded in creating a friendly and trusting atmosphere in a forum that receives interlocutors from all continents to discuss politically complex subjects. Policies, too, because it has succeeded in building confidence among the Commissioners themselves, which is quite rare in the committees. It has also put the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the heart of national and international issues. As the officials of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Members of the Committee, always point out, despite its name, it is far from being foreign to the affairs of the French. What can we say about the convention presented today, which my colleagues have recalled the complexity of? The fight against tax evasion and fraud is today, as you know, a major issue. The OECD and the G20 undertook important work on this issue at the turn of the 2000s, which then accelerated sharply. At the initiative of France, the G20 summit in Los Cabos in 2012 launched the international project known as BEPS against the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits in the field of corporate taxation. Bilateral conventions remain, until today, a major instrument in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. The amendment to the Convention must therefore constitute a step in relations with Botswana in this area. It is also important to recall that Botswana is not on any blacklist of non-cooperative tax states and territories today; It is not considered by France as a tax haven. However, as the rapporteur pointed out, he is on the European Union's grey list. Botswana has nevertheless made significant efforts in the area of transparency and intelligence cooperation. It also committed in 2017 to comply with the criteria of the European list of non-cooperative tax courts. The rapporteur stressed the three points on which the country still needs to improve, and which explain why its rating was degraded in July 2019 to "partially compliant": deficiencies in the identification of beneficial owners of companies of capital and persons, a legal framework that does not include a sufficient mechanism to supervise obligations in this regard, and delays in the retention of accounting information below the established standard. From now on, the OECD and the European Union want Botswana to engage in the automatic exchange of information without imposing a binding timetable. It should be noted that no social or environmental consequences are expected from the implementation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u18	That's good to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u19	The latter will also have no impact on youth or on equality between women and men. On the other hand, its legal, economic, financial and administrative consequences deserve to be stressed – they were detailed in the impact assessment – and controlled by both countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, UDI-I and Activité ens groups]] History, ladies and gentlemen, always remembers the people who reached out. What I'm proposing today is to shake hands with our friend from Botswana.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u20	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u21	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u22	I take this opportunity to address to Marielle de Sarnez my most friendly thoughts and thank Sonia Krimi for the words she spoke. Today, we have before us a bill authorizing the approval of the amendment to the convention signed with Botswana on April 15, 1999. While the stakes may appear modest in relation to our exchanges with Botswana, I would like to stress that this agreement reflects the efforts of France and the countries with which we are dealing to advance the international community on the subject of financial transparency. Our country has been engaged for a long time in this fight with, let us stress, real results. The Committee on Foreign Affairs can testify to this, in particular because it has been seized of the four minimum standards defined by the BEPS project. This action plan, launched in 2013 by the OECD, has made real progress in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. From this point of view, Botswana is a perfect example of what can be achieved by an ambitious policy that sets clear objectives. As the rapporteur pointed out, Botswana was classified in 2012 as non-cooperative States. Since then, the situation has changed considerably, and trade with that country has grown in all respects. Cooperation has thus developed both diplomatically, with the opening of a full-service embassy in Paris in March 2019, and economically, with the presence on the spot of many French companies in a wide range of fields of activity. Recently, the French Development Agency signed a loan agreement to support the diversification of the Botswana economy. All these elements, which are a sign of a marked improvement in the situation in this country, lead us to reconsider its status. Real efforts have been made. Botswana thus joined the inclusive framework on the BEPS project in 2017; it has undertaken to comply with the criteria of the European list of non-cooperative tax courts and to ratify the Council of Europe and OECD Convention. Finally, its rating by the World Forum has improved significantly since 2010. All these signs are encouraging. That is why it is now time to enter a new phase of this cooperation. The Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will support the text proposed to us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u23	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u24	Mrs Rauch, I would like to point out that you represent Mrs de Sarnez very well and that she is certainly very happy that you are replacing her today as President. It is a pleasure to speak with you, as well as with the rapporteur, my friend, about this small project. In this regard, I thank Jean-Paul Lecoq and his entire group for deciding that this amendment would be discussed in open session. I think he will agree with me that our committee is lucky enough to have a chairman like his. Thanks to it, indeed, our committee has returned to the heart of the House. Little deal, I said. Thinking about it, we think that with 600 French in Botswana and 30 Botswanais in France, it's not much. But this agreement is essential! Botswana, originally, was in a black zone: none of our French institutions could intervene to obtain information, and that had always been the case. Since then, the situation has improved. Botswana has moved from a black zone to a grey zone. Great progress! But it must always be borne in mind that, whatever the size of the country, its quality, its intelligence, we do not have the right in the French Republic to accept certain things that we consider illegitimate. The fact that Botswana is improving its response to questions is an excellent thing, Mr Di Pompeo: we are progressing. Nevertheless, we are not yet at the top; We're even a long way from it! In fact, some French companies considered that it was not worse because they could benefit a little more... I won't say anything more, but we know a lot. Botswana is still in a grey area, but in a situation that is close to what we hope to see in terms of transparency. This point seems essential to me and I would like to illustrate two examples. This morning, I called three friends who work with one with the port of Dunkirk, the other with the port of Marseille and the third with the port of Le Havre. They're all talking to Ghana. Now in Ghana, an opportunity to buy is presented in the morning, whatever it may be, at the bank as early as midday! I have proof of that! This morning, in Ghana, we worked with the ports of Le Havre and Dunkirk. Well! The CIC, a French bank in my opinion, was extremely honest, and immediately touched everything that could fit it: it's clear, it's clear, it's precise. [[Smile]] I will not give you the names of the companies concerned, of course, even if I could, and Jean-Paul Lecoq too, but I can tell you that things have been extremely clear. Quite frankly, Secretary of State – dear Jean-Baptiste, I like you, you're a good guy – if we could do the same thing with the Bostwana, it would still be great. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM, Dem, IDU-I and Activité ens]] Thanks to Christian Di Pompeo for his work; Thank you also to Marielle for giving the Committee on Foreign Affairs its place in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u25	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u26	Let me join all of our colleagues in greeting our President Marielle de Sarnez. If we were to characterize the links between France and Botswana, we could say that they are cordial but limited. Our bilateral relationship with Botswana is predominant in three areas: economic diplomacy, sustainable development and the teaching of French. Today, we have about 20 companies on Botswana's soil in areas as diverse and varied as telecommunications, defence and security equipment, agri-food, hydrocarbons and logistics and transport. We can therefore legitimately question the state of tax cooperation between our two countries. We do not yet find any dispute concerning the application of the 1999 bilateral tax convention: France has only made five requests for information on the basis of article 26 of the Convention, to which Botswana replied in the same year. However, Botswana was included in the list of non-cooperative States or territories by an Order of 4 April 2012, in particular because the Convention of 15 April 1999 did not comply with international standards for the exchange of information. Non-cooperative states or territories, or "tax havens", are defined as, on the one hand, States offering non-residents low or zero taxation in a context of low transparency of the tax system, and, on the other hand, being characterized by limited access to tax information, particularly under cover of bank secrecy and professional secrecy in tax matters. These are the reasons for Botswana's presence on this list. Botswana has since significantly improved the transparency of its taxation system. In 2017, it undertook to comply with the criteria of the European list of non-cooperative tax courts, in particular to sign and ratify the Council of Europe and OECD Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. So why do we have to study this bill? The reason is simple: since 1999, when the tax convention between France and Botswana was concluded, the model tax convention has evolved. This amendment will ensure compliance with the most recent model convention, article 1 of which incorporates the wording of article 26 proposed by the OECD. The signing of the amendment in July 2017 allowed Botswana to withdraw from the list of ETNCs when the list was updated by the decree of 6 January 2020 signed by the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of Public Action and Accounts. Two advantages will arise for Botswana: it will no longer risk being tax sanctioned by France, but above all it will be able to use it in order to meet current international standards. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC and EDS groups]] We can welcome the expansion of international standards for tax transparency and information exchange, and we must encourage countries that are seeking to comply with these standards. This bill is in line with that. It may be a small agreement, dear Christian Hutin, but its ambition is great and that is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote for its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u27	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u28	A number of us have doubted whether it would be appropriate to consider this amendment to a tax convention between France and Botswana at the sitting. Indeed, Botswana, a country that can rely on stable democratic institutions and whose per capita GDP is one of the highest in Africa, is only France's one hundred and eighty-fifth client. Above all, few taxpayers are affected by its application: some 30 Botswanans settled in France and some tens of French settled in Botswana, for about 20 companies. Similarly, it has been said that no request for information has been sent to France in recent years by the management of the French tax legislation. This is primarily an update with the main consequence of confirming Botswana's withdrawal from the French list of non-cooperative states and territories by order of 6 January 2020, on which it had been registered since 2012. It is the timetable for the withdrawal of the list that may be problematic. Indeed, the amendment was signed on 27 July 2017 and the list of ETNCs was amended by an order of 6 January 2020, before Parliament had to decide on the amendment to the convention. It has been better known as a method of gaining the confidence of parliamentarians, although the retroactive application since 2018 of the provisions of the amendment already made the scope of Parliament's consultation very symbolic. The same applies to most international agreements which, such as CETA, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, apply provisionally even before their ratification by Parliament. However, this poses a real democratic problem, even if in this case this retroactive scope is rather positive, since it prevents transactions prior to the ratification of the amendment from escaping the tax administrations of both countries. Most importantly, the Government's choice to remove Botswana from the list of tax havens by regulation before we discuss the consequences of the amendment is that Parliament has no power in this regard. There is a need for more coordination: Parliament must be able to be informed of the criteria and conditions governing the constitution and revision of the French list of tax havens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u29	Long live Marielle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u30	There has already been a coucac in the recent past about Panama, which had been removed from the list by the Government, before being re-registered shortly after the Panama papers. To prevent this from happening again, the parliamentarians we are can play the role of watchdogs. However, we must recognize that Botswana was not a tax haven: it is not listed on any blacklist. The reason for its presence on the French list is legal, since the States have not concluded an administrative assistance agreement with France to be included in it under the General Tax Code. At the time of the signing of the bilateral convention, Botswana was not in a position to guarantee effective access to and exchange of requested information. Since then, the Botswana authorities have wanted to implement tax reforms that will make their country more attractive. Let us come to the bottom of the agreement, because that is what it is above all about. The amendment seeks to adapt the Convention by replacing one of its articles with an article written by the OECD. It allows first of all to extend the exchange to any information deemed likely to be relevant, not just useful. It also covers all taxes collected by France or Botswana, and not only those covered by the Convention. The new article also sets out more clearly the conditions under which the information transmitted may be used for purposes other than tax purposes, for example in litigation proceedings. Finally, this new wording explicitly prohibits a State from using bank or professional secrecy alone to refuse to transmit certain information. These are therefore considerable changes, which we must support in the fight against money laundering and corruption. If questions remain, including whether Botswana will really be able to respond to requests for information, there are grounds for hope, including the important commitments made by Botswana. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that if we have grievances, they only touch on the method, and it is to the French Government that we must address them but vote against this text, which is a real step forward on the substance, would send a bad signal about Botswana's efforts to move towards greater fiscal transparency. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u31	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u32	The fight against tax evasion and fraud must be at the centre of our political concerns, as this issue is crucial not only for tax and social justice but also for our public finances. That is why, although I am not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs but a member of the Committee on Finance, I pay particular attention to the text before us. This proposed amendment to the tax convention between France and Bostwana should facilitate the exchange of tax information between our two countries, which seems a priori positive. I note that this country has so far been classified as one of the so-called non-cooperative states, i.e. considered by France as tax havens. According to the documents provided to us, this classification was in fact the result of the country's inability to comply with the latest international standards for the exchange of information. However, no French request for information had so far been unanswered and parliamentary reports indicate that there is no tax competition between our two countries. In other words, the Bostwana does not have a so-called tax that it would be likely to attract many of our fellow citizens who want to escape tax. This is certainly one of the reasons why only about 60 French nationals reside there. The parliamentary debate, however, makes it possible to hear other arguments and Jean-Paul Lecoq and Christian Hutin have taught us that certain commercial ties have everything to gain from the perpetuation of grey areas and a tax that could be brought closer to that of a tax haven: Jean-Paul Lecoq mentioned in particular the interest that a company like Total would find there. These arguments led me to revise my judgment on this subject and that is why I will abstain from this text. Having said that, it is difficult not to judge our discussions of the day as surreal in view of the continuing total denial of the real tax havens in the European Union. While for eight years our country has been treating Bostwana as a tax haven – what it may be for some companies that have every interest in it – for questions that you believe are administrative delays, nothing is done against European countries with purely dishonest tax standards, which continue to be protected and excluded from the list of tax havens. This is a double standard, to the advantage of the Netherlands, Ireland and Luxembourg. To limit itself to the latter state, it is not sixty French nationals who are concerned, but more than 50,000 nationals and a hundred companies. For each of these countries, the issues of tax evasion and fraud are of considerable public importance. The real question that we should be asking ourselves today is: beyond this kind of bill, the scope of which, even if it is not only technical, is immeasurable with what is happening with regard to European tax havens, what is France doing to put an end to the major sources of tax evasion and fraud that are the real inequalities of taxation between European countries? If we were to do this, it would also help us to be clearer about countries such as Bostwana. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Christian Hutin also applauds]] You will therefore understand that my opinion is mixed and that we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u33	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u34	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u35	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u36	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of a bill authorizing the approval of international agreements and a bill authorizing the ratification of additional protocols (No. 2746, 3353; 2744, 3351). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u37	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u38	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u39	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, of the draft law extending the transitional arrangements for exiting the state of health emergency (No 3340, 3355).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u40	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u41	Caregivers are on arms watch, and we are with them. Here in the South-East, there in Guadeloupe, on both sides of the territory, the indicators concern us and call for the greatest vigilance. A few months ago, the whole world discovered what this virus was. Historical measures have been taken – and the confinement of an entire country does not, believe it, decide to gait at heart, nor does it take any pleasure to restrict fundamental freedoms. We are at a crucial moment in the management of the crisis: the moment when we know whether or not we have learned the lessons of the first wave that has spread all over the country without shouting, with unheard of violence; the moment when the spirit of responsibility faces weariness. It's good now that you have to hold on. Doing too much or not doing enough is not the question; If everyone has an opinion – and if many spread it – the virus laughs at polemics, sensibilities and states of soul. To destroy this virus, to protect our citizens, to do our best, together, to avoid the worst, is our duty. Since I was appointed minister, it has been my priority and the heart of my agenda. I have said this in recent days on several occasions: epidemiological monitoring indicators are not good in many territories. They remind those who would have forgotten that this epidemic is not behind us, and that the virus is still circulating, sometimes very actively. Between the beginning of July and the end of August, the number of coronavirus-related hospitalizations and the number of people in resuscitation due to the virus more than doubled. The Law of 9 July 2020 on the exit of the state of emergency established a transitional regime, applicable until 30 October. This change of legal regime has allowed the resumption of activities and the restoration of the common law to continue, while retaining the ability to prescribe measures to prevent, and, where appropriate, to control, at best, a deterioration of the health situation. I will not be the minister of denial: the virus is still present, and, above all, French people die of this virus every day. The last few months have convinced me of one thing: I do not want to hear, in the coming weeks, phrases such as "we knew this was going to happen" or "we saw the resumption coming." We would have gone well from that text, but the situation is such that we must show courage, responsibility and restrict some of the freedoms to which we are all deeply attached. The transitional regime adopted by Parliament in July enabled an effective response to the reversal of the epidemic curve. The Government had thus been able to take measures to ensure a high level of health protection for the French and which, supplemented by territorial actions, had made it possible to limit the resumption of the epidemic, despite the risks associated with summer holidays. However, as we can see, the widespread resumption of activities is increasing the number of cases of covid infection -19, and this will continue in the coming weeks. In these circumstances, a sudden interruption of health measures by 30 October would risk the recurrence of the health disaster we experienced last March, which forced us to institute a state of health emergency. The Government considers it essential to maintain sufficient capacity in the coming months to ensure the continuity of crisis management and to prevent a deterioration of the situation. In its opinion of 12 September, and in view of the current and foreseeable development of the epidemic in the coming months, the Scientific Council also considered it essential to extend the transitional regime established upon exit from the state of emergency until 1 April 2021, as proposed in this text. To this end, the bill provides for an extension of the period of exit from the state of emergency until 1 April 2021. During the examination in committee, several parliamentarians considered this date too distant; They have also tabled deletion amendments at the sitting. We had this debate during the discussion of the previous text: should measures be taken for a month, three months or six months? A balance had been struck with the parliamentarians, but here I am again before you, since this balance, alas, is struck by reality: the crown virus is starting to circulate again. As I said at my hearing before the committee, the date we have chosen is consistent with the sunset clause which the legislator has provided, on its own initiative, for the legal regime governing the state of emergency in the health sector. This deadline should allow the reflections and parliamentary time to be devoted to the development of a permanent health emergency management system, rather than to intermediate meetings to extend transitional measures which are already known to be necessary. A bill to this effect will be before Parliament by January. The transitional arrangements for exiting the state of emergency will apply throughout the national territory until such time as this new regime is adopted. The Scientific Council stressed the crucial role of information systems in effectively monitoring and managing the health crisis. It is for this reason that Article 2 extends the information systems created to combat the epidemic. These tools are used to identify contact cases, to accompany them, to provide them with advice adapted to their situation, to carry out epidemiological follow-up and to conduct research on the virus. Therefore, it is essential that the duration of application of these systems dedicated to the epidemic run until the exit of the state of emergency on 1 April 2021. Article 2 also allows for the extension, for the same period, of the retention of certain " pseudonymized" data, which we have discussed here, collected in these systems, for the sole purpose, I repeat, of epidemiological surveillance and research on the virus, without any nominative data. We all fear, since the beginning of the summer, that we will relive what we have experienced in the months before the summer. Also, we cannot at the same time fear a worsening of the situation and deprive ourselves of an effective tool, which makes it possible to block transmission chains and keep control. The hearing and the work carried out in committee last week was rich. They made it possible to clarify certain points concerning the health situation, but also to anticipate, at the initiative of the President, Yaël Braun-Pivet, the possibility of derogation from the rules of publicity of meetings of local deliberative assemblies, in order to comply with the health rules. The sessional review should, however, make it possible to refine the drafting of the text with regard to the regulation of the opening to the public of establishments receiving from the public and meeting places. Indeed, the high number of people welcomed needs to take into account the general health situation – I am thinking in particular of the brewing phenomena that major events, especially sporting events, can lead to, since they attract an audience from several territories. It is therefore necessary to retain the possibility of defining ceilings in absolute terms, irrespective of the capacity to receive them. This virus, which undermines our daily lives, also requires continuous action and better adaptation of our response to curb the epidemic. This is the meaning of the amendments tabled by the Government before the session to incorporate certain innovations in tests and examinations – I am thinking in particular of antigenic tests – in order to extend the scope of tests and examinations admissible in the context of air travel and power, when the conditions for deploying them – very soon – are met, thus remedying the delays observed at certain points in the territory to obtain the result of the so-called "RT-PCR" examinations, sometimes incompatible with the requirement of a test carried out less than 72 hours before taking the plane. On this last point, I have in mind the legitimate appeals of some parliamentarians from the ultramarine territories. We also want to enable new health professionals, such as pharmacists, to inform the information systems used to fight the epidemic, in order to make it easier to recover the results and the effectiveness of our tracing system, which is more than ever the cornerstone of the strategy to combat the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this text does not arouse enthusiasm – neither yours nor mine – and it is not its vocation. Its purpose, our aim, is to protect the French, which is why it is clearly indispensable to us. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u42	Mrs Alice Thourot, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u43	I would like to thank you, minister, for accurately recalling the health context in which we are looking at this fourth bill in response to the covid-19 epidemic, as well as the lack of enthusiasm with which it is welcomed. This reminder was all the more necessary, and it will not have escaped anyone, since the situation has worsened since last week, when you were heard by the Law Commission. Let us remember, when we discuss the articles, that it is now more than 3500 infected people who are hospitalized every week, including 600 in resuscitation, and that 332 people died in the only week of September 14-21. And let us not forget the caregivers, who show unwavering dedication despite the inevitable fatigue and the legitimate apprehension of the coming months. The deep recognition that we owe him also implies taking responsibility to minimize the consequences, particularly on the hospital, of the epidemic recovery. Finally, let us not lose sight of the laxity to which we might have the temptation to yield would have direct consequences on their nightguards, on the dangers they run, on their lives they expose to save ours. We also owe this responsibility to the French, who have made many efforts, often difficult, with great courage. If the population has made many sacrifices to curb the epidemic in the spring – it continues to do so, since normal life has not resumed – it is certainly not for us to let it go in the fall: as you said, minister, we must hold on! Last July, the Government and the National Assembly considered that the measures envisaged under the transitional regime were necessary. We have assumed our responsibilities until the end of the parliamentary shuttle by allowing the adoption, on final reading, of the law of 9 July. The Constitutional Council has validated this approach by a full compliance decision. Unfortunately, the evolution of the health situation throughout the summer has also shown us that we are right to exercise caution. If these measures were necessary in July, what about, ladies and gentlemen, on this first day of October? They have now become indispensable. That word is not mine, it is that of the Scientific Council, which gave a categorical opinion on the bill we are discussing. Let me quote it so that it is perfectly clear: "In view of the current and foreseeable evolution of the epidemic in the coming months, on the one hand, and in view of the provisional nature of these provisions, on the other hand, the Scientific Council considers it essential to extend the transitional regime established at the end of the state of emergency until 1 April 2021, as proposed by the bill. » Let me tell you straight away: it is out of the question of leaving the country unarmed on 1 November next. Nor can we wait for the situation to deteriorate to the point of justifying a new use of the most drastic measures to which we had to resolve ourselves in the spring, that is to say, a new generalized confinement. Even if the outbreak of a state of health emergency were, alas, necessary in some parts of the territory, we would still need the measures allowed by the transitional regime elsewhere in France to protect our fellow citizens from the epidemic. For yes, we want to avoid as much as possible the uniform, egalitarian decisions that fall from Paris and which concern all villages – I am thinking in particular of those of the Drôme. We choose the territorialization of measures, the decision to the closest to the ground, the coordination between the state and local elected representatives through the prefects and mayors. That is why Article 1 of the draft law extends until 1 April this year the transitional regime established at the end of the state of health emergency, which was then set at 30 October. This is now the only possible solution between the state of emergency and the common law, neither of these two options being relevant in the health context. This finding was shared by the Council of State, which, in its favourable opinion on the draft law, considered that the health situation "creates the need to take or strengthen measures based on the law of 9 July 2020, which the common law of the public health code [...] does not allow to take". According to him, the situation is also not "such as at this stage, however, the use of a state of health emergency, generalized or confined to certain territories, would be justified". The deadline of 1 April will allow Parliament to take a calm approach to the discussion of the bill to ensure the sustainability of health emergency management systems. Indeed, the state of emergency regime envisaged in the law of 23 March 2020 is intended to disappear on that date, as the deputies and senators who passed this law wished. These five months of prorogation are not, as I heard in the Law Commission, a "check in blank" to the executive. On the contrary, it has a heavy responsibility: to guarantee the right to health protection proclaimed in the preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946, to affirm it in a fair balance with individual freedoms and the preservation of public order. In this context, the rule of law, far from receding, is affirmed: Parliament authorizes and controls, the Constitutional Council and the Council of State ensure the guarantee of rights and freedoms, and the Scientific Council issues its recommendations independently. In the face of the epidemic threat, it is up to everyone to take their share of responsibility. The original bill preserved all the balances found during the discussion of the law of 9 July. This is proof that we were able to build a regime adapted to the circumstances, which made it possible to make quick decisions close to the ground in order to cope with the acceleration of the virus's circulation. Article 1e bis, adopted unanimously in the Committee on Laws, is to complete this building. In committee, we hoped that the issue of institutions receiving significant reception capacity from the public could be addressed with the Government in a public meeting, and that mandatory rules would take into account reception capacity. Again, what must prevail is an adaptation to the terrain and not a single gauge for a small theatre as well as for the Stade de France. Discussions on proper drafting continued throughout the week with the Government, and we will be in a position this evening to present a formulation that is satisfactory to all. The Commission also adopted, on the welcome initiative of President Yaël Braun-Pivet, two Articles 1e ra and 1er ter designed to facilitate the functioning of local authorities and EPCIs in the areas of active circulation of the virus. These adjustments, which were held at the place of meeting of the deliberative body and at the presence of the public, had been decided with the spring ordinances. The Commission has merely reintroduced them into force. I know that amendments have been tabled to go further, and we will see in the course of the debates whether their adoption is appropriate. But in this year 2020, where local elected officials have worked hard, under difficult conditions, to accompany citizens in confinement and beyond, it seemed natural to us that the legislator should not assign them to the usual formalism. As for Article 2, it is the condition for the implementation of the strategy "test, trace, isolate" and research on the virus. Without the ability to track infected people and their contact cases, we cannot break transmission chains and fight effectively against the epidemic. Of course, SI-DEP and Contact Covid information systems can't do everything: we need appropriate means and procedures. But without them, we would lose essential information to understand how the epidemic is spreading and to appreciate the effectiveness of the health measures implemented. That is why we maintain these systems in force until 1 April 2021, as well as the important guarantees that frame them: the quarterly report of the Government to Parliament, the public opinion of the CNIL, the opinion of the Monitoring and Liaison Committee, which ensures medical confidentiality and the protection of personal data, the penal sanction of non-compliance with the rules on data processing. Again, all actors involved in the fight against the epidemic support the extension of these information systems. We have modified the mechanism in committee to incorporate CNIL's recommendations and improve the evaluation of these information systems through specific indicators, which should be agreed to by all. Some of you may have had to bend to about forty days. This was also the case, within the Government itself, with the Prime Minister and several ministers. While the testing procedure needs to be improved to reduce the current time frame, monitoring of the results, informing the people concerned and continuing research on the epidemic are nevertheless essential. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is necessary for the proper organization of the fight against the epidemic in the coming months. No one can look at the figures, can look at France, and pretend that nothing happens, that the common law will suffice and that the epidemic is over. It's not a renunciation. We will continue to monitor the Government's action through parliamentary action and will work as quickly as possible, as announced by the Chair of the Law Commission, on the long-term mechanism for managing health crises. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Today, times remain exceptional, and we still need exceptional resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u44	I have received a motion from Mr Damien Abad and members of the Republicans' Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u45	For the fourth time since March, we have been in this forum of the national representative to discuss the state of health emergency. It is a matter of discussing the way out of this state of emergency, a state of health which seems very delicate and distant. Let us be precise: the state of health emergency no longer exists legally since 10 July last. Indeed, the text we are going to discuss is a further extension of the exit, a further extension of the end – an end that, in many ways, seems endless... The covid-19 pandemic is a serious subject of particular and particular importance, not just because it concerns the health of the country and the health of each of our fellow citizens. Let me also have a thought for the many families who have suffered mourning or who, at this very moment, tremble for one of their own, a close friend. I am thinking of one of our former colleagues, Claude Goasguen. I am also thinking of all these caregivers, the staff of all categories who are in the first, second or third line, who have been, who are again, and, alas, will still be, if we do nothing. The subject is serious because it also concerns our public freedoms. The exit from the state of emergency is an area if not a non-right, at least a very special right. This is a legal hybridization, a form of GMO, a generously modified organisation, which borrows a great deal from the right of exception, more doubtless for certain aspects than from the common law. This 1st October opens a new ordinary session for our Assembly, but, ordinary, this text is certainly not. And it is for this reason that I regret that we are examining it in the middle of the afternoon, at the end of the week, in front of a relatively sparse audience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u46	But of quality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u47	I have no doubt, my dear colleague, but because of its content, this text deserves much more attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u48	Especially from your group, Mr. Gosselin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u49	His discussion goes after a tax convention whose exceptional scope, originality, thickness and singularity – I stop there – have not escaped anyone. And I discovered an hour ago that this did not prevent the Government from tabling in extremis an amendment which the Committee could not examine and which also did not receive the opinion of the Council of State. Last week, Minister, we had the honour and the pleasure of hearing you in the Law Committee. Of course, we have been attentive to your comments. But it would also have been interesting to hear the Minister of the Interior or the keeper of the seals because, beyond the epidemiologic and public health issues, there are equally important questions related to public freedoms and more legal aspects – a point that is important for the rest of my speech. Of course, we share the concern of our fellow citizens and the Government. There is no need to create artificial controversy by making it appear that we would be in favour of laissez-faire: we recognize that the state of affairs is unquestionably worrying. In a large part of the national territory, whether on the continent or overseas, many outbreaks of contamination have been recorded. The number of people tested positive is increasing and the situation in hospitals, especially in resuscitation, is increasing day by day. Since the beginning of the pandemic, almost six months ago, the Republican Group has assumed its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u51	Thank you, dear colleague, for recognizing him. Be aware that our group will continue to do so. It has accompanied the majority in a number of decision-making processes. He was present, alongside the Government and the nation, in March and in the weeks that followed. We were a few to be here at the end of March, and we felt deeply how serious the time was and what attitude of responsibility it was demanding. We have no intention of instrumentalizing anything. Epidemiological risks are real, the spread of the virus being exponential. However, we also need to learn to live with the covid -19, to be resilient, because it is quite possible that we may have to face this pandemic or others on an ongoing basis. We'll know in a few months, a few years. It is also important that the messages sent be clear. I'm not sure that's always the case, far away from it. We've had a lot of masqueradings with masks – but this is not the time to reopen a polemic, especially as a commission of inquiry is working on it. Some test guidelines are just as difficult to understand, sometimes very rough! After urging all our fellow citizens to be tested, we realize that they must be stopped, prioritised, sorted, in a certain way; It is difficult to keep up with the pace, sometimes because of lack of products, delays are longer, results are not achieved. All this is very nebulous. What about these restaurants and cafes – I'm not even talking about the event, the world of entertainment and culture, the discotheques – that are forced to close as people continue to get involved in public transport, metros, buses, RERs, which are left open some universities and not others, that we lighten procedures in schools but not in supermarkets? All this is difficult to follow. [[Exclaims on several banks of the Dem Group]] What about the Government's assertions of respect for the territories, territorialized measures, when it informs local elected officials late when it does not try to avoid them? Those in Marseille or Aix-en-Provence could testify to this. What about these highly recommended StopCovid applications? Let us remember the beautiful flight of the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, Cédric O, who encouraged each and every one of us to download the app! In reality, it is a flop, the Prime Minister himself confesses it while he was the man of deconfinement! Our fellow citizens are outraged. A movement of anger and weariness seems deaf. Let us listen, not to give up acting, but to explain, justify, convince of the merits! For an objective to be well understood, it must be clear. The point applies to the law: it must be intelligible. The Constitutional Council has even made this a remarkable principle. In fact, he had the opportunity to look at the state of emergency and, in his decision of 11 May 2020, he did not just give a blank answer, Madam rapporteur. He also gave some explanations, made some reservations about interpretation. It's not as linear and smooth as you say. From this point of view, we can of course find it acceptable to extend transitional measures because they help to curb or limit the effects of the health crisis in order to avoid a general reconfinition. But we believe that the proposed text goes too far and for too long. You are planning to extend for six months this period of in-between, which is neither the state of emergency we have experienced nor the ordinary law. The situation is not the same as in June and July, when we were discussing the first extension. There will be no break in parliamentary rhythm as was the case with the August holidays. Parliament could therefore meet much more quickly, well before the date of 1 April which you propose to us, and provide for a regular re-visitation clause to take stock of the health situation. Our previous appointments were set for two months in two months. In this bill, you propose to wait until April 1, 2021. In other words, you would like to be given the keys to the National Assembly House and Senate House for six months, half a year! On the contrary, we believe that in a democratic country Parliament's control is essential. Faced with the exit of the state of emergency and the crisis management, Parliament is becoming a croupion – as I have already said for several months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u52	It's been three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u53	Of course, there have been commissions and missions. But why, ladies and gentlemen, should we be self-limiting by adopting a law that is quite lenient in our constitutional powers? Section 24 of the Constitution does not simply make us representatives who vote the law. It also allows us to evaluate public policies and, above all, to monitor the Government's action. I don't sue this government for intent more than anyone else – the situation is difficult, everyone knows, and our group comes from a government party that aspires to go back to business.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u54	Not too fast, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u55	Let us be reasonable and fully assume our role, especially in a time like this! There is nothing scandalous about trying to strike the right balance between restricting and protecting our freedoms, between protecting our citizens and protecting our public freedoms, our republican values. The courts, fortunately, do the same. On various occasions, the Council of State has issued decisions on measures affecting individual freedoms. On 18 May, with regard to gatherings in places of worship, he recalled the need to adopt measures that were strictly proportionate to the health risk and appropriate. On 13 June, he suspended the general and absolute ban on demonstrations, which is not nothing. On 6 July, he suspended the decree establishing prior authorization before organizing a demonstration. Yet, in the days or weeks before, we were told, "Sleep, good people! There's no problem, since we're telling you! Well not, since both the Constitutional Council and the Council of State have expressed several reservations. It wasn't that transparent. In addition, with regard to the SI-DEP system – the screening information system – the teleservice Contact Covid and the protection of personal data, we are assured that everything is going well overall. That is what the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, said in its opinion of 10 September. But as always, the devil is in the details. Actually, it's not that simple. In a decision of 19 June 2020, the Council of State thus placed the Government at the foot of the wall with regard to the health data hub. Difficulties remain, which will be addressed by the CNIL. You know very well that questions about pseudonymization and matching arrangements are only postponed and far from being resolved. Again, it is our personal data, our health data that are at stake. It's not nothing. Yes, on many subjects, contrary to what is said loud and clear, our freedoms are at stake. The Defender of Rights, Claire Hédon, did not make a mistake: last week she rang the alarm, a clear warning "against a disproportionate violation of freedoms". If the head of this constitutional institution expresses himself in this way, it is undoubtedly that it can be based on a few elements. The ones we were talking about are in the same direction. It also places its steps in those who are concerned with the protection of freedoms. Let us assume our role, I said! Last week, the minister said that there was a need for a long-term mechanism to manage the state of emergency and that a text to that effect was planned for January. In these circumstances, the six months provided for in this bill appear to be a very long time! We need assessment appointments, democratic appointments. That is why, together with my colleagues in the Group of the Republicans, we propose not to go until 1 April 2021, as proposed, but, initially, until 10 January. This would allow the end-of-year parties to be easily overrun, conducive to many family and friendly meetings, which can be virus cocktails. It also turns out that this six-month period would include regional and departmental elections. We would like to avoid disruption to these elections. I have noted that a law is necessary to suspend or postpone them, but what if the meetings could not be held, if the campaign could not be conducted and if the voters could not peacefully carry out their electoral duty? Let us avoid the fiasco of 15 March 2020, that is, the first round of municipal elections, which remained in the head of the French. We are responsible – as Saint-Exupéry said, "everyone is responsible for all" – and we have demonstrated this within our political group. We do not avoid what you propose with a backhand, but we find that it is too long and too infringing on public and individual freedoms. That is why we need to discuss the arrangements. That is why we need to review the deadlines. Be aware, Minister, that we are ready to accompany you and work in good intelligence with you to collectively fight against the covid, but by adapting our right, by setting regular appointments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u56	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LT group]] It's not about giving you a white-seing and leaving you the keys to the house. We want a re-visit clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u59	My answer will be brief, because I believe I have already said a lot in the presentation of this text, and I will say a lot more, although I cannot participate in the entire debate. I apologize, but in an hour I must address the French in order to make a number of announcements related to the evolution of the epidemic. Our fellow citizens are well aware that by taking measures, the Government and national representation simply want to protect them. The duration for which special rights are granted to the Government by Parliament can be discussed. We have already discussed this for a long time; The last time, it was a question of setting this period at two or three months, which would have led us to the heart of the summer, when Parliament is not sitting. Without wishing to provoke you, Mr Gosselin, I will say to you: fortunately, the transitional measures to leave the state of emergency were finally adopted until 30 October, and did not expire in July or August.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u61	Fortunately, at a time when I was alerting the French about the epidemics in Marseilles and elsewhere, while some – of which you were not a part – argued that the virus had been transferred and was no longer dangerous, we were not disarmed and that there were legislative provisions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u62	That was not said on our benches! We were by your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u63	No member of our group has ever said that! This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u64	You're in front of Parliament, not in the media! You can't always tell us the same stories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u65	I never claimed that you said it: I was just reminding you of the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u67	I said you didn't say. Many people have said so, including invited experts on the trays, but not you. If you believed that I was aiming at you, I beg your pardon: it is the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u69	Fortunately, we had retained the means to quickly make decisions and act quickly. Fortunately, we have consistently stood by when we were asked – in a legitimate way, on the merits – to reopen places where we know, alas, that the circulation of the virus is favored. In the United Kingdom, one of the cradles of parliamentarism, the Prime Minister announced three days ago the establishment, probably for six months, of a curfew in all the bars and restaurants in the country, even though the health situation there is less degraded than at home. We have been repeating for months that we must live with the virus in the long term. This implies phases of calm, where the measures to manage the epidemic are reduced, where one finds almost a normal life, like this summer, and phases of aggravation, where the health and life of the French are at stake, which requires us to be responsive in order to take appropriate measures. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These measures are proportionate, necessary, temporary, and they are not arbitrary, I repeat. We are strong in the trust that Parliament gave us a few months ago. You have seen these measures applied, and you have seen that we are in no way making disproportionate use of them. But we need to keep a minimum of responsiveness, freedom of action, to protect the health of the French. That's what they expect from us, and from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u70	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u71	Mr Gosselin, I have listened to you with great attention and have noted some contradictions in your speech. First of all, you talk about both the responsibility and the reopening of discotheques: we will discuss them later, but today it is not the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u72	I didn't talk about reopening, I said we need to ask ourselves questions. Don't transgress my words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u73	Secondly, you said that Parliament would be dispossessed of its prerogatives and wished for re-visit clauses. This text is the fourth on this subject we are debating in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u74	But this is for six months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u75	The fifth will reach us in January, that is very soon. So there's a re-visit clause in January. Let us take a date to discuss again the measures that allow us to protect the French! [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I would also like to point out that a commission of inquiry was set up by the National Assembly. For the anecdote – this is rare enough to be underlined – I have heard today a member of the Republicans group mention the Defender of Rights, which is not lacking in salt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u76	How?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u77	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u78	Our political family has always defended the Defender of Rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u79	[[Same movements]] Above all, Mr Gosselin, I note your concern about the departmental and regional elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u80	This subtext is unacceptable! It's provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u81	Before the March deadline, we have other challenges to face. I hope you'll be there to do it with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u82	We have no lesson in democracy to receive from anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u83	Let's not argue, Mr. Gosselin! You know that managing this crisis is difficult; It is necessary to adapt, to cope with the evolution of the epidemic, to do the best in each territory. In this regard, I would like to commend the mobilization, for several months, of all parliamentarians, but also of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who is among us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u84	But more for a very long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u85	As far as case law is concerned, the decision of the Council of State which you referred to did not concern the transitional measures referred to today, but the state of health emergency, which is not quite the same. Finally, with regard to the timetable, I repeat that we will look at these measures again in January: once again, I hope you will be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u87	We come to the explanations of vote on this motion of rejection. Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, Dem, SOC, EDS and GDR groups]] As a preamble, I would like to say that all groups here defend freedom. I knew a Jacques Toubon who was an excellent Defender of Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u89	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u90	When we heard him in the Law Committee, he told us that he would be very attentive to defending rights, and that was what he did. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant exclaimed]] For its part, the Libertés et Territoires Group is firmly opposed to the extension of this "health emergency bis". We are concerned about this bill. Mr Balanant, I am not baffling when it comes to defending the freedoms of the French, and this is not an electoral issue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u92	This text is useless. Article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code already provides for everything; It only provides that the measures must be proportionate and taken by reasoned order. This is the least of all when we restrict fundamental freedoms such as freedom of assembly and freedom of demonstration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u94	I would simply like to invite you to read about Amnesty International's investigation into the exercise of the right to protest in France. Seeing France so pinned hurts me, and would hurt me even more if I were you. I say again: there is no need for these exceptional laws. They are worrying, not only for our freedoms, but also because our fellow citizens no longer understand them. You can see that, in society, a slinging wind is beginning to blow, whether at the restaurant owners or at the discotheque managers, whose proposal to reopen their establishments is on the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u96	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It is better for young people to find themselves there than on a beach, where they will not respect any barrier gestures. When a restorer is asked to lower the curtain the next day, when he has a reserve for 20,000 euros of provisions, how do you want him to take this measure? [[Approvals on the benches of the LR group]] There's a rush here. There is something that is not concerted. You are talking about the mayor-prefect couple: we know well that in a large majority of cases the prefect only informs the mayors of what he has decided. What worries me is that some French people are beginning to find these disproportionate measures. This can become dangerous. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the LR group]] Therefore, once again, we are firmly against this extension of the transitional regime: we must return to something much more structured, drawn up with Parliament, with explanations. It is by drawing on the intellect of our fellow citizens that we will achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u97	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u98	Mr Gosselin, you have shown a real sense of responsibility so far: all the members of your group have voted in favour of texts allowing the Government to take exceptional measures to protect the French. These are the same measures that the Government is now proposing to extend. As you said, there is no doubt that the epidemic is resuming and that, in terms of health, we are going to live a very difficult autumn and winter. However, you choose this moment to change your attitude completely. In a month's time, if the hospitals are saturated, you'll be the first to blame us for not taking the necessary action. If we adopt your motion of rejection in advance, that is, we refuse to consider this text, it means in concrete terms that as from 31 October, the Government will no longer be able to take the measures necessary for the protection of the French...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u99	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u100	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u101	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... or will have to do so without a legal basis. For all the reasons already mentioned, voting in favour of this bill is no pleasure to anyone. The La République Group supports it in a spirit of responsibility. We therefore call for a vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u102	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u103	First of all, I mean that we, members of the great family of the Republican Right, have no lesson to learn from anyone in terms of democracy, republicanism or the defence of individual freedoms. Perhaps Philippe Gosselin will have the opportunity to return to this point. On the first day of the ordinary session, we are meeting to discuss a text which is not very ordinary: it aims to extend the process of exiting the state of emergency once again. In this regard, there has been a great deal of responsibility. We would like to recall that since March we, members of the political family of the Republican Right, have assumed our responsibilities. We, the deputies of the Republican Group, at the Bourbon Palace; Senators from our political family at the Palace of Luxembourg; the presidents of regional councils and departmental councils, mayors, all have been at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u104	Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u105	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The masks, the health measures, the various aids have always been made by the elected members of the political family of the Republican right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u106	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u107	Not just, maybe; But an irresponsibility trial would not be welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Philippe Gosselin said this: this text is a cause for debate. He deserves some thought. It deserves to be studied and re-examined in the light of a number of considerations relating to individual freedoms and public freedoms. That is why we considered it necessary to table this motion of rejection beforehand: we want a more balanced legislative framework, reconciling the need to deal with the pandemic that strikes us with respect for individual and public freedoms. The re-visit clause before Parliament, in particular, is in our view an essential point. Therefore, we ask you to vote in favour of our motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u108	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u109	As you said, Mr Gosselin, we are here, once again, to discuss the extension of the regime for exiting the state of emergency. Each of us would have wished we didn't have to, but the reality is there: the figures are worrying. Given the decline over the past six months, we know that we need to act with caution and responsibility. More than ever, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats hopes that the Government will be able to act in consultation with the local authorities, as well as with the professionals in the sectors severely affected by the crisis. It is not simple and, unfortunately, it has not always been the case. The bills that we have passed successively have allowed the Government to act, but we will remain vigilant about their use. We must also consider the attitude of our European friends. The Italians, among others, show an exemplary sense of responsibility. This should be meditated on. As you will understand, our group will oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u110	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u111	The Socialist and related group is also resolutely opposed to this further extension of the state of emergency. We also rely on a set of lawyers who have been speaking for a very long time and who believe that the objective absence of proportionality with the available scientific data and knowledge may at any time lead to measures restricting individual and collective freedoms taken without any real basis. As has been pointed out throughout our debates in the Committee on Laws, we have also proposed, because we are responsible, to limit this extension by allowing you to come back to Parliament to study these measures again. As the rapporteur announced earlier that we would have a new text before us in January, we all the less see the need for this proposed extension for six months. We also propose measures to improve the adversarial and control by Parliament, which are necessary to respect the democratic spirit of our country. [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] For all these and other reasons that we have already mentioned in the Committee on Laws and that we will recall earlier in the debate – where we hope that our proposals will be better heard – we support this motion to reject beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u112	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u113	We would collectively benefit from a calm and responsible debate. Since my modest position, it is my first concern to address you. The Group of the European People's Party is witnessing the difficulty and sensitivity of this issue, because we have not been able to agree on a unanimous position and will therefore be in favour of the text in the majority and against the motion to reject it beforehand. We understand, like all our compatriots, the difficulty of adhering to the text we are considering, or at least the discomfort it can cause. Indeed, its restrictions on the free movement of persons and freedom of assembly, as well as possible closures of establishments, are a major concern for our freedom with a capital L. However, we are facing a vital emergency, and it is the executive power that has the pressing need to take swift action. This is indeed a time when it is not a question of discussing the conditions under which we are going to debate, but of acting politically, as close as possible to the territories. In this regard, the powers transferred to the Prefect should be maintained, in pairs with the mayor. Otherwise, what would we do? I listened carefully to Philippe Gosselin, for whom I have a great deal of consideration, and I am pleased to note that we agree on the essentials, apart from a possible re-visit clause which, moreover, already exists with the consideration of a new text scheduled for January 2021. The main thing is probably to know how we will manage to define, for the future, a solid legal regime for this state of health emergency. This must be the subject of a debate, which we call for. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u115	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u116	Of the various reasons why the IDU and independent group voted on this motion to reject it beforehand, I shall retain only one reason: the total lack of respect for Parliament and for the rights. As Philippe Gosselin has said, there is something quite surrealistic that such a fundamental and important subject, which affects both the health of our fellow citizens and their fundamental freedoms, should be debated on a Thursday afternoon, after the examination of texts whose scope, if not to be neglected, was not comparable to that of the current debate. In addition to the fact that the Minister of Solidarity and Health, present at the beginning of the debate, will hold a press conference during our work...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u117	He's already gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u118	... in the course of which he may announce additional restrictive measures which we may have wished he would have said a few words to the national representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u119	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u120	This is a sign of total disrespect for Parliament and, consequently, for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u121	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u122	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You can understand why you do not have the confidence of the latter for the measures you are going to take, and you will not have it any more in the weeks and months to come. Your method has been completely missed since the beginning of the pandemic and you continue along this path of absolutely neglecting Parliament as an institution that not only debates, but also votes the law and monitors the action of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u123	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] I can no longer stand this irresponsibility trial, which consists of systematically opposing health, precaution and freedom. When we say that we must ensure respect for the freedoms of our citizens and the adequacy of measures to specific situations in the territory, we are the defenders of the freedom as well as the health of our citizens. I will therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u125	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u126	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this motion for a preliminary rejection because, to date, we have not heard any well-founded arguments justifying this request for an extension of time. None of the legal elements at our disposal support the Government's or the rapporteur's statement that, if we did not vote on this bill today, we would be deprived. Even before the state of emergency, there were – and currently exist – provisions in the ordinary law that would allow the Government to take the appropriate measures. If the situation made it necessary, you could even re-enter the state of health emergency, a tool that you yourself have created to further extend your provisions. This bill is, in fact, a sort of parliamentary chatter...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u127	Are you talking about chatter?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u128	... which consists of two or three measures different from those contained in the text on the state of health emergency, but which could be activated in any case. This chatter is, in fact, intended to mask awkwardly, grossly, your catastrophic record in this matter for nine months. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] You have given us no reason to trust you in the management of this health crisis. On the contrary, everything is accumulating to show your incompetence, incoherence and stubborn refusal to hear the many proposals made by La France insubmissive and by other opposition groups to plan, organize and anticipate certain measures. We can still see that today. It therefore seems quite consistent to vote, with full responsibility, on this motion of rejection. It is because we are responsible that we cannot trust a government that has demonstrated its total irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u129	Always with the sense of measurement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u130	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u131	[[Approvals and applause on the benches of the SOC and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] The minister has left, but my first point also applies to the rapporteur: let us try to avoid arguments invoking irresponsibility or too aggressive, because they show a lack of this serenity which is precisely what, in a period of crisis, is expected of a government, a majority and the whole of national representation. Nor do I accept the argument that some people would minimize the crisis. We all live in territories, in constituencies, in departments, we all have families and we are all at the front, in our place, to fight the covid. We are all responsible for this pandemic. It is, however, something else that we are talking about today. You are proposing, first of all, an incomprehensible object: a law aimed at introducing a permanent transitional exception! It is a perfectly legislatively hybrid object and completely incomprehensible to the French. The state of emergency is established when it is necessary and can be lifted. Indeed, we have all the tools of common law to combat the pandemic. [[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] I remind those who would have forgotten that the most coercive measure taken since the pandemic was confinement, decided solely on the basis of ordinary law, without the existence of a state of emergency law. So don't tell us any stories: the measure you are proposing is an attack on freedoms for a far too long period, and focuses on the fundamental freedoms of gathering and circulating. The proposed extension therefore does not meet a health ambition, but a governance comfort that has nothing to do with the effectiveness of the fight against the pandemic. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will of course vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u132	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u133	It concerns the organization of our debates. I would like to call on the rapporteur for a little more moderation. A lawyer and a lawyer, she knows a priori some basics of law, including constitutional law. Without wanting to play pedants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u134	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...I will only remind him that the Constitutional Law of 23 July 2008 created the Defender of Rights. So we have no lessons to learn and I assure you that we have perfect control over democratic codes. You were also well gathered with us to share these codes and celebrate the republican values around a former President of the Republic with a well-known name, a Correzian who sat in this House instead of 99. So if you want the debate to go well, please be up to it and avoid these invectives, not to say these kiddies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u136	We come to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u137	Mr President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u138	For a point of order, Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u139	No, I would like to answer Mr Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u140	If it is not for a point of order, I have no reason to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u141	Mrs Thourot is a rapporteur, so she speaks whenever she wants!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u142	No, Mr. Balanant. I opened the general discussion: in this context, the rapporteur does not speak when she wishes to. To speak, a point of order must be sought. I call Mrs Martine Wonner, the first speaker in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u143	Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, future generations will look at you and hold you responsible for having, text after text, breached the constitutional principles and values of our democracy. Let us not be fooled: these measures that you present to us as being only transient are not. The responsibility that lies with us is great: will we once again allow the executive to flout our fundamental freedoms? Will we give in to the climate of fear infused, for several months now, by the Government? Indeed, this text has no other purpose than to make our rule of law drift to unknown and dangerous territories. What we feared in July when we looked at the previous bill in this area is a reality: it is intended to continue and to be an indelible part of common law. As the Defender of Rights recalled on 23 September, the exception cannot and should not become the rule. However, we are now clearly and repeatedly observing that our rights and freedoms are being achieved by a number of unquestionably disproportionate and unjustified measures. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I wish Olivier Véran was still in the Chamber, but you're trying, Adrien Taquet, to replace him, up to what you can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u144	My dear colleague, the vow is in order!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u145	A little respect for the ministers on the bench!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u146	Still, the announcements made by the minister on September 23 are consistent. The classification of the metropolis Aix-Marseille and Guadeloupe as maximum alert zones corresponds to a confinement of the population barely hidden. Parisiennes and Parisians are expected to experience the same fate in the next few hours. Amnesty International, in its report published on 29 September, explicitly denounces the authorities' attitude towards the right to protest. The right to peaceful assembly is now animate, as a result of post-containment restrictions. The Government continues to maintain an anxiety and a sense of guilt. We can therefore legitimately ask ourselves whether the health situation has not become the perfect pretext for restricting our freedoms in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u148	The restrictions, which are presented to us each time as temporary, are, on the contrary, increasingly insidious in our daily lives. Our democracy is hurting. She no longer expresses herself in the ballot box and much less in the street. You're preventing citizens from coming together and student mobilizations from structuring themselves. You touch France in what it has most precious and let part of what it is go away. Education is a constitutional right. However, many schoolchildren have already had to leave school again. Nearly 2.8 million students are also experiencing a crisis that is not theirs: many of them are condemned to stay behind their screens, others have been prevented from finding work this summer. They don't just care about their education, they worry about being able to eat. These conditions are not worthy of the Republic. Our country can no longer stand this lasting banality of the state of emergency. How can you, ladies and gentlemen, allow a new type of state of emergency to be included in our law? How can you ignore the Constitution? The Manichean presentation of a debate that would pit irresponsible Members against those who want to protect France is shameful. We do not forget the 31956 deaths, nor the people currently hospitalized, nor all those who suffer after-effects due to lack of early treatment after contracting the virus. We are convinced of the need to protect the health of the French, but also to guarantee their freedoms. But we suffer lies and distortions of reality. There is an urgent need to stop feeding fear. It is indecent to present biased data to discipline the people. A positive PCR test does not necessarily amount to a sick person. Covid-19 will remain present, such as influenza or other diseases. When the Government portrays hospital congestion as a manifestation of the resurgence of the epidemic, it does not question the state of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u150	The saturation of the resuscitation services is not new: every winter, in recent years, patient transfers have been organised from Paris to Orléans or Chartres – due to the lack of beds and facilities that the hospital suffers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u152	You are aware that some 3400 beds were closed in 2019. What did the government do? He announced an increase in resources, but none of the measures taken proved to be sufficient. The lack of health security leaves all professionals in the health sector and the hospital at a standstill. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] Emergency laws and measures taken since March must be repealed. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group, which is committed to ensuring respect for fundamental freedoms, will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u153	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u154	As stated in July, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group believes that the transitional regime established after the end of the state of emergency is in fact a state of emergency which is continuing. The successive extensions of certain measures in the context of the state of health emergency confirm the doubts that we expressed from the outset: six months ago, we, along with others, noted that there was no guarantee that the Government would not request a further extension of the emergency health measures. We are here, as others before me have pointed out. Let us understand: the pandemic is still alive, we are aware of it. It is intensifying in several regions and outbreaks are regenerating. We do not deny that, unlike some speakers on television sets. We share the concern expressed at the risk of reconstitution. Every day, we think, like all of you, of the victims and those who act against the disease. No more than the Defender of Rights – already widely cited – we are challenging the legitimacy of restrictions of freedoms in the context of a health crisis in our country. However, these restrictions must meet three fundamental requirements of the rule of law: predictability, necessity and proportionality. The Defender of Rights has precisely condemned the lack of proportionality of the measures taken, as our colleague Philippe Gosselin pointed out. In July, you asked us to empower the Prime Minister to take a number of measures in the context of the state of health emergency – measures to limit freedom of movement, access to means of transport or places receiving from the public, as well as freedom of demonstration, assembly and assembly on public roads. Parliament had granted this authorization, which was due to end on 30 October. By this bill, you are asking us to extend this transitional regime until April 1, 2021. The question therefore arises as to whether the health situation justifies once again delegating to the Government decisions that are so crucial for fundamental freedoms – those of movement, undertaking, meeting or demonstrating. Some respond clearly in the negative: many lawyers, this has been recalled, argue that the provisions of articles L. 3131-1 and L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code are sufficient to allow rapid and time-limited action in case of risk of a return of the epidemic. I will not pretend to assure them that they are absolutely right and that there is no doubt about it. We therefore ask a simple question: if the existing arrangements, which many jurists consider to be sufficient, are ultimately not, should we not assume a genuine state of emergency, clearly regulated by law, approved by the Constitutional Council and more respectful of the separation of powers? The law would allow this, as you know: there are of course the exceptional powers provided for in Article 16 of the Constitution, but also, without going so far, the Act of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency, which was applied in 1985, in 2005 during riots in the suburbs, and then in 2015 after the terrorist attacks, without reducing Parliament to the role of simply a registration chamber. We did not say otherwise when we expressed our doubts and misunderstandings about the continued extension of the state of emergency arrangements into the common law, and even when we argued that the Government should extend the state of emergency during the summer if the health conditions imposed it. This bill is a trompe l'oeil: contrary to its title, its purpose is to extend measures of the state of health emergency. What exactly does the term "transitional regime" mean? A state of emergency does not transit: it is maintained until it is lifted in its entirety to put an end to the exception. The exception must remain the exception, and the common law the rule. There are no irresponsible deputies, but elected officials who believe that the risks of weakening the common law to the benefit of derogation mechanisms – risks repeatedly recalled by successive rights defenders and lawyers – are too high. The experience of the state of emergency against terrorism has shown that this is not a school hypothesis. This bill is, in essence, the equivalent of the SILT law – the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – in health matters: governance through the emergency and the exception that, in the name of the protection of society, is intensifying and endangering the rule of law! If this bill were passed, the state of emergency would no longer be truly exceptional. It would no longer respond to particular circumstances. We would be condemned to permanent crisis management, which would have serious consequences for the exercise of our public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u155	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u156	Even to protect the health of the French, let us not oppose health to freedom or democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] For all these reasons, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u157	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u158	In the history of humanity, pandemics were multiple. Man – after more or less time, difficulties and unfortunately victims – has always overcome them. The covid-19 pandemic is not the last we will experience: there will inevitably be others, unknown at the moment and just as unpredictable. Like the others, the covid-19 pandemic will be defeated. From my medical experience I draw the teaching that the fight against covid -19 responds, as those who preceded it, to the immutable rules of medicine: the latter must be pragmatic and evolve according to the developments and circumvolutions of the disease to be combated. In the same way, against a pandemic, one cannot cling to principles with obstinacy, at all costs: on the contrary, one must adapt, almost daily, the tactics adopted to circumcise it according to its evolutions and its dangerousness. The only principles to which we cannot derogate are those of the general interest and the most balanced preservation of our fundamental rights and freedoms. Adapting, that's the master word of this fight! That is why the Government, under the control of the legislator, must constantly update its position. The state of health emergency established by the law of 23 March 2020 for two months, and then extended until 10 July, had not been renewed beyond that date but replaced by a transitional regime running until 31 October. To ensure the legislative follow-up, the Government had three options. The first was to allow the transitional regime for exiting the state of emergency to end on the scheduled date, forcing the executive to rely on the provisions of the ordinary law in the police field. This solution had the disadvantage of limiting the ability of public authorities to intervene in the area of possible restrictions on travel, sporting gatherings and the opening of establishments receiving from the public, among other things. The second option was to re-declare a state of health emergency, which would have granted the Government the exceptional prerogatives conferred on it by that regime. Given the scale and duration of the health crisis, however, the Government did not wish to limit the constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms. That is why he chose a third option extending the regime for exiting the state of emergency. This option makes it possible to provide a proportionate response to the development of the health situation and is consistent with the texts previously voted on. In view of the increase in the number of positive cases – almost 13,000 were detected yesterday – but also of the number of hospitalizations and admissions to resuscitation service, it is essential, in accordance with the opinion of the Scientific Council, to extend the transitional regime until 1 April 2021. The Government, it must be acknowledged, calls for the renewal of these exceptional measures only reasonably, coerced and forced by changes in the health situation. These measures, we also agree, are much more graduated and adapted to each situation than most of those taken in the urgency of our European neighbours. The powers given to the Government, which article 1 of the text is intended to extend until 1 April 2021, and which may be delegated to State officials in the departments, do not seem to me to be inconsistent with democratic rules, and the information and control exercised by the Parliament remains constant. Two amendments tabled by our colleagues Yaël Braun-Pivet and Gaël Le Bohec were adopted in committee at the initiative of the LaREM Group. They are intended, respectively, to facilitate meetings of local deliberative assemblies and to derogate from the advertising rules governing them, until 1 April 2021. These adjustments were permitted by order during the state of health emergency. Article 2 of the bill deals with the protection of personal data collected as part of studies on covid-19. It seems to me quite normal to extend the retention of this data in order to bring it into line with the duration of the extension of the transitional arrangements until 1 April 2021. The brigades can thus continue their work as the epidemiological situation to find answers continues to be examined. In the eyes of the LaREM Group, it is therefore essential, in the face of the persistent threat of the Covid-19, to pass the bill before us as it stands. [[Isabelle Florennes applauds]] Let me add a few comments. First of all, the containment was, on the whole, remarkably respected by the population. We must congratulate him. Secondly, we must promote the salutary idea that it is essential to get used to living and surviving with the virus through strict adherence to health rules: distancing, hand washing, disinfection of places and materials. It must also be explained that if this behaviour is not adopted, temporarily but indispensablely, the economic and social situation is likely to worsen. Since it cannot be expected that the virus will disappear in the near future, it is necessary to hold on while waiting for a vaccine to arrive. Our Minister of Solidarity and Health recently declared that France must be one of the first countries to have this vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u159	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u160	First of all, I welcome the arrival of Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, while regretting the departure of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. I would like to make it clear that I am not questioning Mr. Taquet's presence. This is called government collegiality, a principle that recalls the American motto: "E pluribus unum", "Together we are one". I regret, however, the absence of Mr Veran, as well as the absence of the keeper of the seals and the Minister of the Interior. [[Applause on the banks of the LR, UDI-I,LT and GDR groups]] The Minister of Solidarity and Health informed us that he had left because he had to prepare a press conference at which decisions should be announced. Yet he was within the confines of national representation, a high place of democracy, his heart beating. We could have thought – probably a little naively – that he would reserve these announcements to national representation rather than to the small skylight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u161	You're not in the theater, Mr. Gosselin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u162	By the way, this shows in what way Parliament is held. I speak these words with a little disgust, anger and inconvenience because the time is serious. For many months now, we have been confronted with an unknown and anxious situation, both because the information is telescopic and even contradicting each other and because, above all, tens of thousands of our fellow citizens have been affected or are still affected, while more than 30,000 people have died, leaving their families in trouble. I am also thinking of those who, since the beginning of this crisis, have been on the bridge. I must confess once again, Madam rapporteur, that I was somewhat upset by the comments you made earlier. In a rather lively debate, there are words that can be accepted, but there are also others that cannot be tolerated. However, I refuse to question the integrity of the opposition, that of the Republican Group, which, in a serious period, has been at your side, alongside the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u163	Well, keep going!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u164	...and who still is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u165	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u166	Far from the totally truncated summary made by the rapporteur, everyone was able to see, by listening calmly, that we were responsible. We understood that the pandemic was returning to the ground, that a second wave was not to be excluded, and that here and there – and not here or there – several outbreaks had emerged and were developing. We therefore clearly consider it important to take action, including some of the measures proposed by the Government. No one says otherwise. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize a second aspect, which you must not neglect: if the requirement of health protection is to be taken into account, it must be reconciled with respect for public and individual freedoms. But we seem to be suffering from frog syndrome: we are gently asleep, we are plunged into a form of lethargy so that we become accustomed to seeing our public and individual freedoms reduced. For a little bit, we would restore curfew that would surprise no one! Fear being a very shared feeling, we would almost end up thinking that the grinches are on the side of the defenders of freedom, among which the right – I remind you, the rapporteur – stood out yesterday as it is today. Well, no! Freedom, a democratic principle, must be reconciled with the protection of health, another principle of constitutional value, first defined by the Constitutional Council on 11 May 2020. In this context, we simply affirm that it is important for Parliament to remain the beating heart of democracy, a monitoring body. Of course, as you said, we have met for the fourth time since March. But we're giving you the keys until April 1st, which is six months, which we think is too long. We agree with certain measures because we too see that the pandemic is returning to the ground. We believe, however, that we need to meet regularly and that national representation – both the National Assembly and the Senate – is the legitimate place for democratic debate. We regret that a minister prefers to visit television sets once again. I have nothing against the media, whose role is to inform and which constitute an important power in a democracy, but some symbolic forces must be respected. That is why we are opposed, not necessarily to all the proposals, but to the means used to implement them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u167	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u168	[[Applause on the banks of the LR, UDI-I,LT and GDR groups]] We do not want to abdicate our supervisory role.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u169	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u170	The rapporteur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u171	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Having been attacked personally, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u172	There was nothing personal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u173	It's my turn to speak, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u174	What article is your point of order based on?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u175	Article 58!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u176	I would like to make it clear to you, in order to ensure the serenity of our debates this evening, that in the Chamber there is no teacher on the one hand and no student on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u177	This argument was heard in old televised debates. That quote's squeaky!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u178	There are only Members who are in a position of equality, gathered to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u179	And to respect each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u180	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] That is what we were elected for. It doesn't matter whether the person you're addressing is not his third term or not a man.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u181	Why insult us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u182	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u183	When you're a lawyer, when you're a lawyer, you don't mean anything like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u184	Mr Gosselin has another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u185	I find these instigators unacceptable about alleged sexism, criticisms that are related to sex or gender. I am not speaking to a student, I am not a teacher here – even if I am actually doing this activity elsewhere – but I hope that students, after a few years of law, will know the difference between what is involved in the business coffee conversation and what is legally based.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u186	What a kiddy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and LT groups]] The Constitutional Act of July 2008 established the Defender of Rights. Jacques Toubon, who came from our ranks, was the first to hold this position. So we have no lesson to learn about it. In the Chamber, plaques also remind us of the extent to which the right has mobilized in the darkest hours of our history to defend freedoms. Therefore, please don't make such a speech: not you, not that, not so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u188	Colleagues, I invite you to regain some serenity. I would also urge the rapporteur to carry out her duties under this heading, which are somewhat different from those of all our colleagues. In particular, a rapporteur must hold a position of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u189	He's got to hold his rank!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u190	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u191	The situation is now known to all: we are currently experiencing a resurgence of the pandemic in our territory. This development, although predictable with the start-up and resumption of activities, remains worrying. You will forgive me for saving a detailed review of the various epidemiological indicators, since the main figures have already been given to us by the minister earlier. I would like to recall that this text provides the Government with a framework for action to take the necessary measures to protect our citizens. No more, no less. I make myself voluntarily insistent by saying it again: no more, no less. First of all, this bill should not be used for purposes other than the fight against the virus. After saying so in committee, I would like to repeat it forcefully today: our group will be extremely vigilant on the issue of individual freedoms and will not accept the text as a Trojan horse. These strong words – I am well aware of them – live up to our concerns and astonishment. It is in fact, Mr Secretary of State, always difficult for us parliamentarians to learn in the Committee on Laws that a new text will be presented in January, which provides for the inclusion in the common law of arrangements for the management of the state of health emergency. Of course, we have not seen the details of what you wanted to put in it, but, a priori, the sustainability of these measures is not justified in our view, particularly in view of the requirement to preserve the freedoms of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u192	Yes, it's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u193	I fully understand the imperatives of health emergency, as well as the need for a sustainable culture of health risk, as well as the legitimate arguments that, in the absence of a reliable scientific solution to date, we need legal tools to effectively respond to any further deterioration of the situation. I recall only one fact, Mr Secretary of State: in six months, four texts relating to the state of emergency have been adopted. Is this not proof that Parliament is fully in a position to meet, debate and reach a compromise quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u194	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u195	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LR, UDI-I and GDR groups]] Parliament knows how to work. He is responsible and able to move forward when the situation commands him. The Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats Group will continue to fight for respect for the work we all do on these benches. That is the meaning of our action and our values, and that is what we will defend. This long but necessary detour must not make us forget the need for the bill before us today. It is important to remember that the situation requires the utmost caution and a proper legal response. That is the meaning of this bill. However, we will propose five amendments. Two of them foresee that, in the light of the rapid evolution of the spread of the virus, the possibility may be opened to elected representatives of all territories, regardless of their level of alert, to continue their work under the best conditions. Through two other amendments, we propose to extend the scope of the municipalities to include inter-municipal and mixed trade unions, the aim being – as with the two amendments mentioned above – to take into account the evolving nature of the crisis and thus to ensure the continuity of the work of the trade unions. The last amendment proposes to make it possible for legislative bodies to meet in videoconference or in audio-conferencing. It is a measure of common sense for us: as companies move forward to continue their activities by developing digital tools and teleworking, it seems anachronistic not to allow legislative bodies to use these solutions. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about one of your amendments: the Government's position on Article 1a, introduced in committee by our colleague Sacha Houlié, deserves to be clarified. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I will conclude by recalling that our group will act responsibly and, of course, vote in favour of the bill. However, as you will understand, we will be extremely vigilant to achieve the difficult balance between health requirements and respect for individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u196	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u197	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u198	We have before us the text to extend the state of health emergency. Our questions and criticisms remain the same, as I was able to say in committee. On the one hand, certain articles of the law which will be extended are not drafted as derogations but appear to modify, without real time limit, the provisions in force, which are included in the public health code in particular. On the other hand, if the law has to go to the essentials in terms of individual and public freedoms, any limitation must be interpreted strictly and guarantees must be made – which was and will not be the case, as I will explain later. I also note that the decision to prorogation is taken in accordance with the opinion of the Scientific Council, whose independence is not guaranteed and whose exclusive intervention is nevertheless problematic, as Mrs Bachelot, former Minister of Health, reminded us. As it stands, despite our questions in committee, we do not have an assessment of the administrative police measures taken by the deconcentrated authorities and by the local authorities in the context of the state of emergency. This refers, as I pointed out at the same meeting of the committee, to the lack of prerogatives and the lack of capacity of Parliament to be informed without delay of the measures taken by the Government during this state of emergency, and to request information relevant to the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. As we have seen, measures have been taken whose scope differs from one city to another, from one territory to another, for no objective reason. For example, cycling without masks was allowed in Paris but, at the same time, banned in Le Mans. In the latter case, the administrative authority reviewed its procedure while the administrative judge was before it to rule on the lack of proportionality and therefore on the validity of that measure. Today, it is possible to go to a gym in some departments while it is impossible in other departments whose incidence rate is the same. In a recent forum, some 50 eminent jurists felt that the objective lack of proportionality of the measures taken with regard to available data and scientific knowledge could at any time lead to measures restricting individual and collective freedoms without any real basis. They referred to unclear and questionable criteria. In other words, respect for individual freedoms in many cases lies in the fact that our citizens refer the matter to the judge, which is not good because respect for public freedoms depends first and foremost on respect by the administrative authority for the principles of law and discernment. We do not know how such inconsistencies, not to say such aberrations, will be prevented. As far as screening is concerned, the strategy seems to have to evolve and many of our compatriots seem not to understand what is most relevant to doing. Many people will be tested without prior identification of priority audiences. Moreover, delays in access to tests still go beyond the period of contagion and call into question the Government's own strategy. What will happen at the time of seasonal illness and the arrival of the usual flu, if I may say so, whose symptoms are similar to those of covid? Over time, we discover new measures that sometimes contradict previous ones. The text extends until 1 April 2021 the exceptional device for the collection of personal data and their processing in the context of the fight against the epidemic. As for the StopCovid application, it is, as it stands, a failure which unfortunately we were quite numerous to anticipate. If the Covid-19 Monitoring and Liaison Committee is in favour of relaunching the promotion of the StopCovid application, in addition to other tracking devices, it does not say anything about what is being done in other comparable European states, nothing about the difficulties encountered with applications with the same object and nothing about the possible solutions to be shared. The fact that the highest authorities of the State did not download it suggests that the communication was insufficient, unless one went so far as to doubt its effectiveness... [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Thus, the bill, by taking over the applicable mechanism without evaluating the operational strategies to be implemented, raises more questions than it provides certainty about its positive effects. That is why the Socialist and Related Group intends to propose limiting the extension of the transitional regime to its strict necessity. It also intends to propose measures to improve Parliament's control over this random system. In this connection, I note that the Ombudsman, an independent administrative authority provided for in the Constitution, spoke in a letter a week ago in favour of strengthening parliamentary oversight of health measures. In other words, nothing unusual in the face of a so-called abnormal device, were we in an exceptional period. It is indeed a matter of making the right decisions, i.e. with measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u199	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u200	I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, in favour of this bill to extend the transitional arrangements for exiting the state of emergency. In other words, we will extend a transitional exit regime from an emergency regime... This is a challenge, which can destabilize and which, in any case, divides. But since March 2020, we have been facing an unprecedented challenge that simultaneously challenges our public health on the one hand and our fundamental freedoms on the other. The question is essential and animates all our conversations in the streets, in the families, in the shops, between us and everywhere: what should we do first? Freedom without limits, which would harm the older and the more precarious, or security all azimuts? But in the second case, the economic halt would endanger society and the precarious prosperity it was recovering... Deprivation of liberty or, more precisely, too long-lasting restriction of liberty would provoke hostile reactions: what good is it to be healthy if you do not live in a free country? We need to think about it because, at some point, which may not be long, deprivation of liberty or deprivation in general will appear more costly than the benefits of it and the process will become counterproductive. In the eyes of the Action Group, or in any case the majority of its members, even though it is uncomfortable for everyone – and it is uncomfortable for me in the first place – this bill is nonetheless indispensable. It is normal for him to worry about a population subjected to a severe ordeal: limited freedoms in some respects, ways of life that are sometimes deeply affected... It is therefore essential that its raison d'être be well understood and that its legal basis be secured and strengthened. This text is, for us, generally indispensable because it is legally unavoidable, first of all because the urgency is still there. In the face of a pandemic that divides the scientific community, the power must be able to arbitrate, it must be able to decide, it must have the ability to do so. There are times when there is no longer a question of debate. We must act as closely as possible; That is why the powers have been largely transferred to the prefect-maire binome. This is useful because it is a crucial necessity for our citizens and for ourselves – in particular, of course, for the people carrying the virus and for the most vulnerable, but also for those who, it should be recalled, could, one day next, need a bed in resuscitation that they will not have if the epidemic resumes with the announced scale. Yet, the device legitimately worries our compatriots, first of all because it is complicated – let us agree. It is territorialized, not all rules are the same everywhere, making it difficult to understand. Secondly, the measures taken are restrictive and therefore often poorly experienced by the persons concerned. Economic counterparts are sometimes misunderstood – I am thinking of aid and support. The longer the period lasts, the worse the feeling of discomfort. But it is our collective responsibility not to feed sterile polemics. The time is serious, it is serious, and the parliamentarians we are must focus on their responsibilities to the nation. We must bring the debate back to the legal and parliamentary arena. We were very concerned about the lack of safeguards, but there are safeguards: the Constitutional Council has been seized and has expressed reservations; the Council of State, on several occasions, has cancelled devices which it considered not to be proportionate. However, the concern is great and legitimate. It is therefore necessary to limit the process in place as best as possible. A re-visit clause is provided for in January 2021; The Action Together Group will scrupulously ensure that the proposed legislative arrangements are put on the agenda, despite an agenda that is already very busy. There will then be a good chance that the Constitutional Council will exercise the constitutionality control that we call for. We also welcome the fact-finding mission planned and announced by the Chair of the Law Committee. The majority of us in the Working Group believe that the bulk of our mission is to remove the state of emergency from the category of unidentified legal object, to which it still belongs, in order to bring it in, in the relatively near future, within the framework of arrangements that we may have to renew if epidemics are to reoccur. Parliament has its full role to play in this dynamic, in the prism of a legally binding framework to be built and of strict control. The Action Group, rich in its diversity, will take care of it carefully and, this time, unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u201	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u202	Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, I would have liked to meet with the Minister of Solidarity and Health to say, to say no, three times no. No, first of all, to this text, which prolongs a completely ambiguous legal situation: an unidentified legal object is created, an OJNI, which is no longer the state of health emergency, which is not the common law, but which allows measures to be extended for the benefit of the executive without the Parliament exercising its constitutional prerogatives with regard to public freedoms. Once again, there is not, on the one hand, those who would look after the health of our fellow citizens and, on the other, quite irresponsible Members who would stick to the defence of individual freedoms and collective freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u203	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u204	We cannot oppose, in our situation, the health of our fellow citizens and their fundamental freedoms on the one hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u205	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u206	Both go together to the extent that freedom of movement and freedom to assemble are fundamental freedoms that it is our responsibility as parliamentarians to defend, just as we must preserve public health. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Since the beginning of the crisis, it has been felt that you are, in a way, improvising measures that are difficult to implement. When one decides to confine the country completely, one must be aware of the economic and social consequences that this entails. Today, as the epidemic resumes and the virus circulates differently from one territory to another, it is necessary to adapt the responses in order to ensure the health security of our citizens while preserving economic and social life. This can only be done in the context of the democratic debate, the parliamentary debate, and not by leaving you the keys to the truck, as our colleague Philippe Gosselin would say...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u207	[[Smile]] The keys to the house!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u208	From home, dear colleague, excuse me! So I reproached you for leaving it to the Minister of Health to speak to our fellow citizens on television to announce certain decisions without having been informed beforehand. This method is not acceptable; In fact, it is not accepted by many of the colleagues here, nor by our fellow citizens. Imagine that we will leave for a period of six months – half a year! – in the hands of the executive...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u209	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u210	...of the prerogatives that are ours, constitutionally, without having at any time a voice in the chapter. It will be a good idea for you to tell us that we will have to debate again and to monitor the action of the Government a posteriori, but the balance of power, in the Republic and in democracy, is not that. The balance of power is a balance between the executive and Parliament, and this balance is once again broken, which is completely detrimental to the legibility and understanding of the measures taken and the efforts required of our citizens. In Article 2, you ask us to extend for the same period the directory of people affected and contact cases, without the fact that neither the impact assessment nor the report submitted to Parliament really state its level of performance in monitoring and combating the spread of the virus. It is known that 200,000 people affected and 600,000 contact cases have been identified, but nothing more is known about how the public authorities use this directory. These are not, once again, good measures. Finally, next January we are announced a text which would include in the common law measures which are specifically derogatory to the common law, in order to take into account the health situation. It's the worst method.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u211	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u212	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u213	You're challenging it, but that's what's going to happen. You will enshrine in the common law restrictive measures of freedoms resulting from a health emergency law, as has been the case in the fight against terrorism. We won't accept it. [[Smiles and exclamations]] You will have understood that the IDU-Agir group... pardon, that the IDU and independent group will vote almost unanimously against your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u214	[[Laughs]] Indeed, it becomes difficult to follow! Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u215	Definitely, when others are busy preparing press conferences or making announcements of which we will probably not know until after our debates, you are the only one left, Secretary of State! It's becoming a habit, but it's no big deal. We must begin by saying one thing, asserting it and reaffirming it: it is not true that we are deprived without this text. No, that's not true! In fact, we were not doing so between March 16 and 23, as it was under article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code that we took the most drastic step we could take, namely the widespread containment of the population. So don't come and tell us about the noises, saying that we absolutely need this text to take action – including harsh measures – in our country. Why, then, do you make us suffer this? Why are you presenting us with this unidentified legal object, to use Mr. Brindeau's expression? Maybe to make it look like you're doing something! Indeed, your political record of crisis management is catastrophic, and it is increasingly so, until it is completely so. The measures you take on the basis of the texts we are voting here are becoming less and less accepted. I want proof not of the demonstrations of France, but of the restaurateurs and barmen of Marseille or Lille, who are not used to protest. That's disturbing! I repeat to those who would not have understood this: the group La France insoumée is for strict compliance with the health regulations. We are for everyone to wear a mask, and even to do it for free, in order to prevent the spread of the disease. But that's not the point. In our view, the Government's action undermines the French' commitment to the measures that we, too, believe are necessary. That's the most dramatic! [[Exclaims on several banks of the Dem Group]] For example, as the virus continues to spread, we are told that in schools, three positive cases – and no longer one – will have to be reported before class closure is considered, because we are told that children contaminate less than adults. All right! I don't know, and I don't care about you. But why, in the crèches, is it enough for all parents to be required to take their children back? Would something happen between the ages of 1 and 3 that would not exist between the ages of 3 and 9? I don't know what the state of science in this area is, but it seems to me completely lunar! How can we say such a thing? [[Mr Balanant protested]] As for the issue of the bicycle mask, which was raised earlier, there is a misuse of the right to territorial differentiation: it is an example of what should not be done. There is a need for clear guidelines: equal status, equal health measures. This is what is coherent, logical, applicable and understandable. On the other hand, we must help those who are in difficulty instead of telling them stories – I am thinking of the barmen and the restaurateurs, who were asked to close overnight, before finally giving them two days of rab. All this is completely incomprehensible! If the situation is catastrophic, closure is necessary, and it must be assumed to the end; Otherwise, you have to give two days of rab. If you don't, you give milling grain to all those who are likely to adhere to conspiracy theories, and it's not good! In the same way, you told us for months that the mask was useless because no one knew how to put it on and that he was letting the virus pass anyway, before asserting the exact opposite afterwards. It is not possible, it is not understandable, and it serves the objective which should be ours, collectively, in the interests of the French people. Complaints were lodged with the Court of Justice of the Republic; They have been accepted and are in the process of being educated. Is that why the Government refuses to admit that it has gone wrong, that it has gone wrong, that there are not enough resuscitation beds, that there are always hospitals where we make blouses in garbage bags, and that the epidemic is spreading faster than expected because people are allowed to take crowded public transport? If you were still saying, "understand, the economy must turn, for otherwise it will be worse"; Or: "Listen, French, French, since we're completely at work on what we promised you, we're going to have to accept tougher measures," you'd have a minimum of credibility. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is impossible for you to make a speech of truth. You also tell us that we can do parliamentary scrutiny. Indeed, a commission of inquiry was established. The last time, a minister lied – she admitted – about the military returning from China.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u216	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u217	She said that these soldiers had been subjected to strict health checks upon their return, but that was not true; they had not been tested, contrary to what was announced. So what? Where's the perjury referral? So we can come to a commission of inquiry, lie quietly and move on to the next case? What the hell is this? Is that what we call executive control? No, it's nothing big, and it undermines the credibility of the measures that can be taken and that are useful. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Finally, you have put in the bill to speed up and simplify public action a large number of measures that are, however, transitional measures, such as video conferencing for persons detained in the event of a covid epidemic -19. These measures should be included in the text we are currently considering. Don't think we're idiots! We know very well that you are putting in the ordinary law, in small doses, exorbitant measures that will become definitive next April.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u218	Mr Brindeau, you have asked me to speak. Is that for a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u219	[[Approvals on various benches]] No, Mr. Chair: I am asking for a suspension because we would really like to be able to follow the press conference of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. That would help to inform our future debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u220	We're going to continue anyway...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u221	We are the last to be informed! The French will be informed before Parliament, it is scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u222	Not at all, Mr. Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u223	You're talking about respect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u224	We are debating a subject without knowing the decisions of the Government! We're gonna have to turn on our cell phones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I will accept Mr Brindeau's request at the end of the general discussion. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u226	[[Applause on all benches]] If I understand correctly, the competition is going to be tough on hearing! The exit from the state of emergency is a horizon that moves away as it is believed to be approaching. Designed to respond to an imminent threat, the state of emergency is supposed to be strictly limited in time and under the control of Parliament. That is why its lifting does not gradually develop. The state of emergency is rising in its entirety, to put an end to an emergency regime which, in essence, seriously undermines fundamental freedoms. That is what we pointed out when the Government implemented a hybrid legal regime by the law of 9 July. Reducing the scope of the state of health emergency as defined by the Act of 23 March 2020, but now with exceptional powers to restrict fundamental freedoms in the hands of the Government, the current transitional regime blurs the boundaries between common law and derogation. It is precisely this "state of emergency," in the words of Professor Hennette-Vauchez, that this bill intends to extend until April 1, 2021. The risk is the habituation of a system derogating from the common law which keeps the executive in a comfort zone, and then the normalization of this regime through the integration into the common law of exceptional arrangements. This development is very real, and the extension of a so-called "transitional" legal regime legitimately revives fears of a normalization of the measures of the state of health emergency, as was the case with the SILT law for internal security measures. In fact, the Government is announcing today a bill that will be tabled by January 2021, specifically aimed at establishing a sustainable health emergency management system. Of course, for the time being we must get used to living with the virus and adopt all health measures to protect ourselves from it, but we must not get used to living in a state where the exception becomes the rule, in disregard of freedoms. The exit from the state of health emergency must mean that freedom becomes the rule again: the right to go and come, the right to assemble, the right to demonstrate. It should be recalled that on 13 June last the Government was severely called to order by the Council of State, which considered its decrees to be "serious and manifestly illegal" against the fundamental freedom to demonstrate. The Government has therefore adapted the regime of freedom of demonstration during a state of health emergency by decreeing a prohibition in principle, with the possibility for the prefect to authorize a particular event, without, however, the criteria to be taken into account being clearly defined. At a time when social plans are multiplying, this infringement of the right to demonstrate is very worrying. Will it be necessary for all the licensees of France and Navarre to go to Vendée, where the prefect is, it seems, the only one in France to allow demonstrations of 10,000 people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u227	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u228	This bill also appears to be unnecessary. In the event of an upsurge in the epidemic, several legal mechanisms of the common law could be used. On the one hand, section L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code allows the Minister of Health to take "any action proportionate to the risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances" in the event of a threat of an epidemic. On the other hand, in the event of a further outbreak of contamination, nothing would prevent the Government from resorting once again to a state of health emergency by a decree in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with article L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code. Finally, it should be recalled that local administrative police authorities are empowered to adopt all the preventive provisions necessary by local health circumstances, as provided for in a number of articles of the General Code of Territorial Authorities which place the prevention of epidemic or contagious diseases among the obligations of the municipal police. As parliamentarians, therefore, our role is not to give you ever more powers to restrict public freedoms, but rather to better control the actions of the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Ms. Marine Wonner also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore resolutely vote against this text, which marks a gradual shift towards a mode of government by the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u229	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u230	Despite encouraging signs this summer, the health situation has deteriorated again, to the point of being alarming in some cities. This situation leads you to take further measures, including the extension of the law from 9 July to 1 April 2021, i.e. for an additional six months. However, this law, supposed to organize the exit from the state of health emergency, had already made teeth gnashing because, in reality, it had no "outer" but the name. Every effort was made to ensure that, at any time, the Government could regain control without having to pass before us, forgetting the principle that it is accountable to Parliament. Once again, it is a matter of leaving your hands free to control some of our most fundamental freedoms: going and coming, manifesting, gathering, having a happy social and family life, and I pass by. All this without coming back to us. Of course, the virus is still circulating. No one here denies it, can deny it. But the situation, you will admit, is very different from last spring's. Yet, even then, Parliament had shown its ability to mobilize. For the record, confinement, the closure of restaurants, schools and shops had been decided last March, even though the state of health emergency had not been voted. Today, the situation is not to be taken lightly, but I confess my concern when I see the Defender of Rights, Claire Hédon, writing to the Speaker of the National Assembly to alert her about the risks of this bill. In her view, several of its provisions are "likely to cause, directly or indirectly, a disproportionate infringement of rights and freedoms, including privacy and the principle of equality. » The Defender of Rights takes care to specify that restrictions on freedom must meet three fundamental requirements of the rule of law: predictability, necessity and proportionality. And to add immediately that the measures taken so far have been taken without the local specificities still justifying it. With this new bill, there is an obvious risk that certain emergency measures will be perpetuated in the ordinary law. It is so true, Mr Secretary of State, that you have indicated that you wish to present, in January this year, a permanent mechanism for the management of the health emergency, the aim being, in your opinion, no longer to have to meet us here, for these appointments which have become recurrent of prolongation of transitional measures. But know, Mr. Secretary of State, that we find ourselves here in no way bothers us, and that we will do as much as we need to. In fact, today we sit as we do on a daily basis. We are here, and would be able to legislate urgently if the situation were to deteriorate a little further.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u231	Of course, we did it in March!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u232	Parliament must urgently regain its place as legislator and put an end to governance by decree. Moreover, I believe that this will is well present on our benches because we all know here that the state of emergency, even if made up in a transitional regime, is an exceptional regime. Today, we must act on a case-by-case basis and with confidence. Mr President, I think there is a chronometer problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u233	I'll give you a few more moments, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u234	It is necessary to act on a case-by-case basis because, as during the confinement period, situations are very disparate on French territory. We must act with confidence because your government still has trouble considering mayors as responsible interlocutors: you prefer to rely on prefects rather than elected officials. Let us really trust the common sense of our local elected officials and let them be able to act as close to their administration as possible so that they can regulate – and not systematically prohibit – without the need for an exaggerated extension of this transitional regime!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u235	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u236	No, Mr Secretary of State, on the one hand there are no irresponsible people and, on the other hand, people who are concerned about the health of our fellow citizens. On the other hand, there is a government that holds fine speeches about the mayor-prefect couple, about the importance of local elected representatives and of consultation, but which, in fact, imposes its decisions from the top, from Paris, creating fury and incomprehension, we saw it again in Marseilles last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u237	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u238	To comply with Mr. Pascal Brindeau's request, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u239	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u240	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u241	The Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic wishes to speak on article 1. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u242	It seems to me very important to clarify one point in order to inform our debate. Some referred to the Government's plan to include emergency measures in the general law in January. To my knowledge, absolutely nothing like this is envisaged. Let us return for a moment to the situation of March 2020 when confinement was decided: the Government was then in need of legal tools to enable it to act immediately in order to protect our fellow citizens. I remember very well the discussions that we had, at that time, with members of the Government and my colleague in the Senate: we were wondering how best to create an ad hoc legal regime, the existing regimes that would not allow us to deal with the exceptional health crisis in which we were entering. We had to create a new legal regime very quickly, without having time to conduct thorough hearings and consultations, when we were only about 20 in the Chamber. We have therefore provided for an extinguishment clause for this specific legal regime and introduced Article 7 into the Act of 23 March 2020 to deal with the epidemic of covid -19, which provides for the application of the text until 1 April 2021. Now we need to think and build together the legal regime that will now apply to situations of health crisis. It is this legal regime that will have to be the subject of a bill in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u243	He already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u244	This legal regime will not in itself create emergency measures: in order for them to be taken, it will first have to be established by decree by the Government – as the state of emergency provided for by the Act of 3 April 1955. It will also provide for re-visiting clauses before Parliament, which will be called upon to decide on its extension. With this specific legal regime, we will therefore create a framework for action, but we will not introduce emergency measures into the common law. It was important to clarify that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u245	Madam President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u246	Finally, I announced in the Committee on Laws my intention to propose to his office, which will meet next week, the creation of an information mission to work on this new legal regime with all political groups. This will enable Parliament to fully carry out its mission alongside the Government and to develop a legal regime to meet democratic demands and ensure the protection of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u247	We continue to hear speakers on rule 1. Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u248	As my colleagues have said and repeated, Secretary of State, we are at a turning point in the state of opinion. Clearly, no one is calling into question the need to prevent the spread of the epidemic and to do everything possible to reduce that scourge. Nobody says it's easy either. Your task is also difficult, it is obvious. However, you must listen to us and, as has been said on several occasions this afternoon, restore its full place to Parliament, in particular to the National Assembly. It has been too little involved in the development of the measures provided for in the bill, which are very exceptional and whose duration of application will be significant. It is not a question of calling them into question, but of seeking more coherence between us, so that we all speak with the same voice and that we stop misunderstandings like those that took place in Marseilles and other French cities. We also need to better explain the measures we are taking to men and women who are running businesses and who have been out of money for months. It would appear, if confirmed, that some of them did not receive the aid promised to them. We must make our compatriots more responsible rather than subject them to measures that they are beginning to question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u249	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u250	The comments made a few moments ago by the Chair of the Law Committee are important and useful in reshaping our debate. The purpose of this bill is to extend the exit from the state of health emergency. No one here disputes the fact that it was not possible to put an end to the state of health emergency overnight: given the current difficulties, which everyone is experiencing, progressive measures were obviously necessary. However, we have a fundamental disagreement, which I stress very calmly, not so much on the means – although we were questioning a number of them – as on the absence of a re-visit clause. Such a clause would have made it possible to place Parliament at the heart of the control mechanism and action. [[The rapporteur and the Chairperson of the Committee on Acquiescent Laws]] As for the meeting of January 2021, it is true that the Assembly will, on that date, be called upon to take a decision on a bill on a state of health emergency. However, it will not be a matter of prolonging the exit from the state of emergency, but of establishing a permanent system, similar – to put it simply, although the subjects are different – to that established by the 1955 law. This text will no doubt be an approximate version of the law of 23 March 2020, the application of which is extended until 1 April, and will allow, if necessary, from 2021 onwards, to resort again to the state of emergency health. The Assembly therefore has two meetings on the subject. The two texts which it will examine will overlap in part in their timetables; They will follow similar but different legal paths. I wanted to stress that. We obviously agree, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, with your proposal to involve all political groups in preparatory work on the text considered by the Assembly in January 2021. It bodes well and will allow us to work calmly, beyond differences. I repeat, our disagreement today is about the place reserved for Parliament's monitoring mission in the process. In any event, no one contests the health arguments put forward or claims that the figures are being tampered with. On this subject, we are on the same wavelength. It was important to say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u251	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u252	In the preamble to this first and subsequent interventions, in accordance with Rule 80-1-1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and on the recommendations of the Ethics Officer, I inform the Assembly, in the event that it is not already, that I have operated nightclubs for twenty years, that I have been a union representative of night actors for fifteen years and that, since my election, my companies have been placed in management leases. In times of crisis, the time has come for unity and not for banishment. The three months we have just lived have unfortunately shown that this is not the case: the discotheque sector and, by the way, some of the youth have been banished. This youth, to whom the doors of framed fun have been closed, relies on his imagination to find other places, not framed, where to escape. For her, the hiding of the night has become the norm. Let's take our eyes off: we too have had this age and we have had the same desire for freedom. Prohibiting night experts from supervising this carelessness is more than a serious mistake; It is to despise their professionalism, yet demonstrated over the last few decades. Whether it is the fight against AIDS, drugs, alcohol abuse or sexual assault, CHRD professionals – cafes, hotels, restaurants and discotheques – have played a major role in raising awareness. History has taught us, division in the crisis is the promise of conflictful futures. Let's keep ourselves from a dramatic, erroneous and, above all, outdated view of the night sector! Today we are talking about a sector in which professionals grow and expertise and control are legion. Let's put an end to the general closure of discos and apply the same principles to all! Equal treatment between the different sectors is a necessity. Making sensitivity take precedence over procedures amounts to succumbing to the dictatorship of emotion. Let us restore pragmatism and concreteness to our priorities. Establishments that do not comply with the health protocol and violate the rules must be closed, but make the "case by case" the key word for likely reopenings. And as stated in the impact assessment of 15 September, "these measures must be strictly proportionate to the health risks incurred and appropriate to the circumstances of time and place". It is not events but our thinking that must dictate our conduct. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LR and LT groups]] It is not a question of reopening discotheques at all costs, but of prohibiting their systematic closure in all places until 1 April. Let's give them the same differentiation as bars, restaurants and other places of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u253	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u254	The state of emergency put in place last March was extended in May for a period of two months, without any planning or social precautions. There is a need to ask more questions here and to the Government about the effectiveness of this management. When we look at a neighbouring country, to which this government is constantly comparing us to align social protections downwards, we find that we are at 11,000 new cases in France compared to a thousand in Germany, that the incidence is 104 against 13, the positivity rate is 7.4% against 1.19%, and that there are 21,000 deaths in France compared to 9,000 in Germany. These figures, from France TV Berlin, should question each and every one of us about the real effectiveness of the measures that we are asked to extend. From our point of view, this management does not deal with health issues properly, and it does not sufficiently prepare the response to the economic and social disaster already under way – I refer you to the barometer of the Catholic Relief published a few days ago. Above all, it calls into question the fundamental freedoms, the rights that have been planed for more than a year by this government – see Amnesty International's latest report on the arbitrariness of law and order, which in reality constitutes a police and judicial challenge to the right to demonstrate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Article 1 enshrines an inefficient health policy and a very safe policy without responding to any of the actual priority issues, which is why we call for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u255	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u256	Article 1 of the bill has the effect of extending the entire arsenal of measures available to the Government for six months, without the Parliament having the opportunity to debate them a priori – it will be difficult to do so a posteriori. In recent days or a few weeks, the main debate has been with local elected officials and elected representatives on the ground, on the adaptation of measures taken to different realities from one territory to another, on their proportionality. Some are experiencing an increase in the circulation of the virus, hospitalizations and resuscitation, while others are experiencing a smaller, more controlled circulation. The Minister of Health is probably describing on television at the moment the measures taken by the executive in these regions, these large cities where hospitalisation figures are becoming worrying. We cannot discuss Article 1 calmly without knowing what the executive has decided for these parts of our territory. I would very much like to hear the minister explain it to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u257	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u258	I fully agree with what Mr Brindeau has just said, and I would like to go back to the situation we are experiencing in the Chamber at this moment. We are currently examining the extension of a system derogating from the common law while the Minister of Health prefers television sets to announce new measures to the French, which he does not consider appropriate to present to us, measures that we will discover during the next sitting suspension or which arrive at the dropper through our parliamentary attachés and electronic couriers. This situation is paradoxical, and it is ways of working more than unsatisfactory that are not up to this health crisis. It is also, to say the least, contemptuous of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u259	We now come to the amendments. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 1, 5, 26, 63, 71 and 93, to delete Article 1. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u260	This is an amendment to delete Article 1. Freedom to come and go, freedom of assembly, the right to respect for private and family life, the right to personal freedom, can now be challenged by an administrative authority and can be challenged until April if you vote on this new bill. These measures are far from anodizing. I repeat, Parliament has demonstrated throughout the state of health emergency and the entire period of confinement that it is able to meet in an emergency if the situation so requires. Therefore, I do not see why we should give the Government a blank so that it can take custodial measures when we have demonstrated our ability to respond in an emergency. Today, Parliament is playing its role and is ready to sit again as a matter of urgency, so there is no reason to grant once again exorbitant powers to the Government, especially, I repeat, to allow it to take custodial measures – I have mentioned some of these freedoms, to which the Defender of Rights has also drawn our attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u261	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u262	In July, we voted to close the discotheques until October 31. Based on two foreign examples, we learned that there was a risk of spread of the virus to young people going to discotheque. At the time, 150 deputies, including President Le Fur, had alerted the Government about what would happen this summer. As a result, we all found that there had been wild gatherings, villas rented for private parties without any sanitary check, without any protocol, and even rave parts of more than 5000 people where masks and gel were brought while discotheques were in all cases closed. If we vote on the bill as it stands, we condemn the discotheques to remain closed until April 1, pursuant to section 45 of the Order in Council of July 10, 2020. We do not ask for the reopening of discotheques, because the situation is critical, we understand it well; We simply want them to be housed in the same brand as cafes, hotels and restaurants, says CHR. In other words, when the situation improves, whether in January or March, we want them to be treated in the same way as restaurants and bars. The discotheques have proposed a protocol that has never been studied by the department and I regret it because it proposes many distancing and identifying measures. The discotheques were closed this summer and yet the virus spread. It's your reports that say: 80% of the clusters this summer are due to private parties, weddings and anniversaries, not discos. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LT groups. – Mr Philippe Gosselin, and Mr Pascal Brindeau also applaud]] I regret to introduce a deletion amendment, but there was no other choice. Let's put the discotheques on the same plane as the other places of festivities and meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u263	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u264	I have said, along with others, how unhelpful the proposed extension is in the fight against the pandemic, as there is in the law and in what we have voted for the possibility for the Minister of Health to take action; and if, unfortunately, the pandemic goes back to a very high peak, the state of emergency is at the disposal of the Government. We are all taking responsibility: the GDR Group had passed the first state of emergency law because the situation required it. But you are extending measures for six months, which are primarily libertic measures, against the freedom to assemble and move, which we believe is irrelevant in order to combat the health crisis effectively. I would have preferred that, for example, in my department, which had the highest mortality rate related to covid-19, and where we found that there were three times fewer resuscitation beds than in similar departments, we had, six months later, a little more resuscitation beds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u265	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u266	We still have the same number, but we are asked to limit fundamental freedoms to the wishes of the prefects, who inform the mayors of their decisions but do not associate them with them. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Finally, as Ugo Bernalicis said, the fight against covid-19 cannot be effective without massive public support and confidence. And when there is such discord in the scientific community, when there is doubt about scientific speech, politics must take over. To make the vast majority of the French adhere to the measures taken, democracy is not a luxury.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u267	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u268	I am concerned that the arguments used to renew the state of emergency on the grounds of terrorism are repeated here: transitional measures could not be dispensed with, because ending them would recognize that the state of the threat has changed... In the end, this reasoning has no more meaning. In addition, before the Law Committee, Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, said that he needed this text in case the health situation in some major cities becomes problematic again. However, even before we addressed the articles in committee, he was already making announcements in the press the day after his hearing to say that the health situation had changed again and that new measures were being taken, annihilating what he had said the previous day. We're reliving the same episode right now. We're flying on sight. We see that the adjustment variable of your impreparation on the ground – the resuscitation beds in Seine-Saint-Denis are a perfect example – are individual freedoms. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] And you don't accept it! But at least assume it, that people understand why they are forced so strongly: acknowledge that the Government has not reopened enough resuscitation beds, that you are at the pick-up to provide blouses in hospitals, to the pick-up to provide caregivers, especially in Marseilles, forced to recall the health reserve beyond what is acceptable! And then you will become credible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u269	What about Germany?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u270	It is less serious to have screwed up when you recognize it, but it is much more so when you refuse to do so, and in this way the government's own action in the field of health is decredible. We have a madness, perhaps even more than you, to explain to people why we should not go to a bar after twenty-two hours, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u271	Please close, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u272	That is why the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of the deletion of Article 1, especially since there is already everything that is necessary in the common law to deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u273	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u274	Several arguments have already been put forward, but six months after the proclamation of the state of emergency and the entry into confinement, we must learn from it. The first thing to know is that we are no longer in an emergency. Although there are real health problems, the figures show this, including difficulties in receiving persons in resuscitation in some institutions. I also note that six months later, we are still at the same number of resuscitation beds, which is still quite problematic. I do not, of course, underestimate the difficulty of being able to mobilise more health professionals, because I am well aware that they are not being formed with a magic wand, but I, like many of our fellow citizens, am concerned that we are again in a situation of tense flow, with choices to be made...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u275	But it's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u276	... which are obviously not ethically acceptable. But if, I repeat, the Republican Group does not dispute certain measures, we ask that all be understandable...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u277	Yeah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u278	... and consistent when it is not, so much as it is, always the case. How do you justify, Mr. Secretary of State, the closure of certain types of institutions while denying them the means to try to adapt? I'm thinking about discotheques, theaters and many others. Let's try, let's test, let's punish those who do not comply with the conditions set!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u279	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u280	Today, however, we are going a little blind; We have the impression that everything is possible and its opposite. This seriously undermines the intelligibility of the measures and, if you want to do well, you actually do less well and, once again, the good intentions turn into a ball. That is what we want to avoid by proposing that we proceed differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u281	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u282	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 93.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u283	It has rightly been pointed out that we are in full confusion with the powers, since Parliament is being asked to divest itself of the executive power. It's never a good sign. Besides, I am struck by the will of the French to question certain actions of the administration. I hear about the prefect-maire couple, but I see that mayors are challenging the prefects' decrees – I am thinking, among other things, of the mayor of Marseilles but also of the mayor of Strasbourg – as well as the associations of restaurateurs or those responsible for nightclubs. They don't understand these measures, and the administration simply says, "No, no, don't worry, we know how to do it, we take care of you, let us do it, we're going to get a law passed so we can be allowed to do what we want. I do not believe that, in a democracy, it is tolerable. For democracy is the balance, i.e. counter-powers. From their dialogue emerges a path. Of course, it can lead to the bruising of certain freedoms, but at least it is not decided from above, according to a pyramidal logic, and everyone accepts it. And that's an important point. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group are proposing that this amendment reject Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u284	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments to delete Article 1?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u285	As we are going to discuss the expiry date of the transitional arrangements when we consider the forthcoming amendments under joint discussion and as we will have the opportunity to revisit the case of discotheques when we consider certain amendments to the additional article after Article 1a, I will concentrate on the merits of this regime, which you, ladies and gentlemen, wish to leave on 30 October. The proposal for a hasty exit is not tenable, we have already discussed it: the principle of reality must apply in this case, and the alarming figures – as you yourself pointed out – provided by the Minister of Health show what is happening. I am sure that you will agree that the health situation is "quiet" – that is the qualifier used by the Scientific Council – and that it requires the necessary protective measures, and therefore the existence of appropriate tools to take them. In their absence, you would criticize the lightness and irresponsibility of the Government, and you would be right. The objective really is to avoid at all costs a reconfinition and to allow the revival of our country. Legally, what could be the alternatives to this transitional regime? This could be a return to ordinary law or a return to a state of health emergency. With regard to the return to ordinary law, it can all be agreed that the health situation is anything but normal, and that it is therefore important to have a somewhat different regime, especially since Article L.3131-1 of the Code of Public Health, which has been cited several times in the House since the beginning of the debate, is not the miracle instrument of ending the crisis and returning to normality. I recall that this article was based on the jurisprudential theory of exceptional circumstances – historically, the only known example in this field is war. The application of this article did not last since we voted together very quickly on the text on the state of health emergency regime, which allowed the device to be installed in the long term. Today, article L. 3131-1 serves only as the legal basis for an order of the Minister of Solidarity and Health concerning the organization of the health system to deal with the epidemic. You can see that this legal vehicle would not be enough to deal with the situation. It is not at all suited to the inter-ministerial response required to manage the crisis, I am thinking in particular of the trade or transport sector, nor of the measures taken under the decree of 10 July 2020 – which the Council of State confirmed in its opinions on the last two bills. It was, for example, on the basis of this Order, and not on the basis of the Order of the Minister of Health, that the generalization of the wearing of the mask could be imposed, that the presentation of a PCR test for passengers from a country at risk was made mandatory, that establishments where barrier gestures cannot be respected were kept closed, and I could cite many other measures. None of them are taken for pleasure, the minister himself recalled earlier that they are unenthusiastic, but they are necessary to prevent the spread of the epidemic. Why not return to the state of emergency? You will certainly agree with me that this particular tool must remain an exceptional instrument in order to preserve its acceptability. I am not personally in favour of restoring it and extending it forever. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we must not wait until the health situation deteriorates to the point of justifying a further activation of this system or a general reconfinition of the population which we want to avoid at all costs. The interest we are defending is that of public health. I would like to remind you that, if we speak quite rightly this evening about public freedoms, we must strike the right balance between the right to health protection, enshrined in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution, and the freedoms, in this case the right to go and come. That is the subject of our discussions. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u286	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u287	Unsurprisingly, the Government's opinion was unfavourable. I would have the opportunity to come back to other amendments on certain specific points – I am thinking in particular of the issue of discotheques since several amendments concern this subject – but I would like to make some general and nevertheless decisive points, I believe, which justify this opinion and which will serve as a response to some of the arguments put forward during the general discussion. However, it is difficult not to start by recalling recent developments in the health situation, since the latter fully justifies maintaining the current regime beyond 30 October. Some updated figures: the test positivity rate was 7.5% compared to only 1% in June; The national incidence rate is 102 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, with very alarming levels in several territories, with 270 cases in Guadeloupe, 297 cases in Lille, 263 cases in Paris, 283 cases in Grenoble and 255 cases in Lyon; the number of actual reproductions is well above one, i.e. more than 1.1 compared to 0.76 in June; There are 1246 clusters under investigation. All these developments are beginning to affect our hospital system, with 6,415 hospitalizations and 1,164 resuscitation placements. In the last 24 hours, ladies and gentlemen, nearly 14,000 additional cases have been confirmed, bringing the total to 577505 since the outbreak began and, most importantly, there have been more than 626 hospitalizations, 142 of which have been resuscitated, 63 of our compatriots having died. Such a situation gives full meaning to the transitional regime that you created by the law of 9 July 2020, and the risks of worsening during the winter period make it more necessary than ever in the coming months to control the evolution of the epidemic. The rapporteur mentioned this: the Council of State and the Scientific Council stated in their opinion that the health situation and the risks ahead fully justified the extension of this transitional regime. It will help to maintain appropriate preventive measures to protect the health of the French. And these measures, as confirmed by the Government last week, will be graduated according to the national as well as local health situation. It is our common responsibility to be specific in order to promote the acceptability of the measures taken, which you all want to improve. So, no, Mr. Gosselin, we did not touch the protocols for cinemas and shows: nothing has changed since they were already strict! I would point out to Mr Bernalicis – who is no longer here – that the protocol for crèches will be published shortly. In all logical terms, it will be very close to the one relating to kindergartens. An expiry on 30 October of the transitional regime would lead to a sudden breakdown of all the barrier measures and thus to a general resumption of the epidemic in the following weeks, i.e. a new health disaster. We would therefore have no choice but to declare a state of emergency again and to re-establish the country. Mr. Bernalicis, who is still not there, himself said he was in favour of wearing the mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u288	He can hear you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u289	[[Smile]] I'm glad. Well, if we did not renew the transitional regime, it would no longer be possible to impose the wearing of the mask or to carry out certain PCR tests referred to by the rapporteur! I would like to point out – if I recall the Minister of Health has already mentioned this in committee – that the common law does not allow the appropriate measures to be taken, which the rapporteur explained quite well a moment ago. By creating the state of health emergency and then the transitional regime, the legislator has introduced special animal health regimes which limit the faculties of ordinary law a contrario. As for article L. 3131-1, which allows only ministerial orders to be made, it is not adapted to the deeply inter-ministerial nature and scope of the measures provided for by the decree of 10 July 2020. We therefore need a specific regime to deal with the health crisis. With regard to public freedoms, following the rapporteur, I would like to point out that, in addition to the control power of Parliament, the administrative judge controls the decisions taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u290	We called him back, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u291	One example was the mask decrees, several of which were cancelled, calling on the Government to be more precise in their drafting and in the delimitation of the geographical areas concerned. The judge exercises his powers of control, just as Parliament exercises his powers of control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u292	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u293	Of course, but it also contributes to the respect for public freedoms, to which we are all committed, Mr President. While the discussion of each of these texts gives me the pleasure of being with you, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted as well the idea of the fact-finding mission proposed by the Chair of the Law Commission for the coming weeks, and I am grateful to her for putting before you the outline of the bill that will be presented to you in the first quarter of next year. It will aim to define a legislative framework for health emergencies, since these may be of different kinds, requiring different and proportionate measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u294	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u295	I understand the concerns, which I imagine to be very sincere, that are expressed on all the benches of this House. But I have also heard incorrect comments. The virus contaminates a little less quickly but still as strongly. It is no less dangerous than when we were sitting at about ten on these benches. I remember that some of you, in the opposition, had then taken very responsible decisions in a concerted manner. It is the same spirit of responsibility that must continue to preside over our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u296	We are always in the same state of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u297	The virus contaminates less quickly – the Government has explained it several times – as we have gone from about thirty to fifteen contaminations per week for ten positive people. This result was made possible through restrictive measures, barrier actions, the development of health protocols everywhere and the reduction of social, cultural and festive activities. These measures do not meet a wish on my part: I like to dance, dear colleague Blanchet. And I wish I could do it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u298	I'll invite you whenever you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u299	I think many of you want to go back to dancing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u300	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u301	However, if we did, we would risk going back to a rate of 30 contaminations for 10 people. That's all the trouble. I also understand the feeling of the discotheque bosses who see private parties organized. Perhaps more controls should be carried out. But it is not because some people do not respect the rules that prevent the circulation of the virus, reduce the number of people admitted to resuscitation and thus save lives, that these same rules that protect us should be removed. It wouldn't be responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u302	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u303	Mrs Obono, you mentioned Germany, saying that France adopts more restrictive measures while doing less well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u304	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u305	Yet, 24 hours ago, Germany decided to reduce festive meetings to 25 people and private meetings to 10 people. France is therefore less restrictive than Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u306	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u307	I support what Mr Blanchet and other Members have said. Why are Members tabling amendments to delete Article 1? Because, in some categories of the population, the casserole-minute is close to exploding. Members of Parliament, of which I am a member, feel the need to inform the Government of these tensions in the territories. If I agree with Mr. Christophe Blanchet's arguments, it is because I would have liked, Mr. Secretary of State, to have the protocol proposed by the representatives of the discotheques be examined by the Ministry of Health and tested in certain territories. Mrs Dubost, naturally, an intense viral discotheque cannot accommodate the public in the same way as in normal times. On the other hand, from the moment we managed to frame a minimum opening of restaurants and bars, it must be possible to do the same for discotheques. That is what Mr Blanchet said, and that is the demand of the discotheque managers. I am thinking of a young businessman from Fougères, who bought his discotheque in February or March. He still hasn't been able to open.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u308	No luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u309	It doesn't make me smile.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u310	Neither do I, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u311	This twenty-five- or twenty-six-year-old would like to be able to restore a minimum of life to his establishment, according to a protocol: the bar would operate at very precise times, there would be only one or two standing eaters, and a little music. This is what the discotheque managers are asking for today. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to examine the protocol they have proposed and to allow its experimentation in territories where the virus does not circulate too much. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and Dem groups]] However, I understand the difficulties facing the Government: it has to deal with a situation that is not easy. I don't know who would do better right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u312	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u313	I am in favour of the deletion of Article 1. You do not miss a capot by asking us to give you full powers in this field until April 2021, while all the French, especially those who have made efforts, like the restaurateurs, realize that you are shown to be unable, so far, to use them wisely. It is already planned that you will be able to exercise them until the end of October! People have realized that you don't understand anything and that those who make efforts are penalized. It's Ubu King, and you always want more! For the month of January, you are announcing a bill to clarify this. Why didn't you anticipate him more? It is true that you have not anticipated the tests, nor the beds, and now you are asking us to renew the transitional regime until next April! How can I accept it? I don't understand you don't understand. We feel like you're not going to the field. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yesterday, when I left the House, I was apostropheted by the manager of a bar, who told me, "It's amazing what's going on! We are the victims of an incompetent government! In this case, you are deeply incompetent; People can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u314	See how it goes elsewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u316	Why don't you go to your ridings and see what's going on there? People can't afford your amateurism and lack of anticipation, and you ask us to allow you to continue like this until April. It's a real shame for our republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u317	These words suck. They're not on your level!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u318	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u319	While it is important to give us the means to protect our fellow citizens, we cannot exclude part of the economic actors from the arrangements – that part of our fellow citizens, the managers of discotheques, who wanted to work with the Government and all the actors. We know that Bercy has heard them a lot, but it is now necessary to reach out to them and to assure them that they also participate in the life of the nation, that their activity also deserves to be taken into account. [[Mr. Christophe Blanchet, Mr. Pascal Brindeau, Ms. Blandine Brocard and Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applaud]] Please review the proposed health protocols! It is obvious that a discotheque cannot function normally in a situation as exceptional as that in which we find ourselves. If it is certain that those who do not comply with health protocols must be severely punished, do not blame others simply because they do so. They need you and we need to restart the activity in early 2021. Let's not leave them at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u320	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor. Let's try to be concise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u321	No one disputes the need for transitional measures, Secretary of State. You accuse us of wanting to delete them at the end of October: that is not true. We support amendments to delete Article 1, but we are also in favour of a proposal. Moreover, we do not propose a device that is fundamentally different from yours. What we want, first of all, is a re-visit clause on 10 January – so there is no question that everything will end on 31 October – in order to allow Parliament to carry out its monitoring mission. We then hear from our fellow citizens, who are worried and do not always understand contradictory measures: while people pile up, or even push themselves, in public transport, that high schools or academic institutions provide courses when others close, discotheques or restaurants are closed, while testing health protocols could allow them to open under certain conditions and partially unlock the situation. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What we are contesting is the eviction effect of the measures you are taking: from the moment that young and old people cannot meet in institutions receiving from the public, they do it elsewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u322	Stop! Your words are staggering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u323	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's the reality. My students meet fifteen in a maid's room to eat pasta! That's no better. We ask you not to open the valves but to be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u324	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u325	No, the rapporteur, we do not rely solely on Article L. 3131-1 of the Code of Public Health to state that the provisions of ordinary law would allow the Government to act and react. Articles L. 3131-1 to L. 3131-11 provide for provisions in the event of a health threat. The same applies to articles L. 3115-1 to L. 3115-13. Measures are also provided for in the Commercial Code. The existing body of legislation gives the Government powers, which are sometimes, from our point of view, too vague or too broad, allowing it to act. You only have the embarrassment of choice. In addition, you ask us to extend a process that many observers of the law consider to be a vague and unidentified object – which is legally problematic – without even taking stock of the powers that you have exercised in this context. Your assessment, however, is, from our point of view, at least contrasting – I am diplomatically using this word. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] When I quoted figures on the German situation, it was not to endorse the fact that Germany would resort to more stringent measures: it was to know the reasons for the huge differential between our two countries. To ask this question is to ask your balance sheet. This is in addition to the fact that the measures you are taking are inconsistent, as some colleagues have pointed out. You forbid young people from eating pasta outside, going out and having fun; On the other hand, they are allowed to pile up in crowded amphitheatres, without giving the means to higher education to pursue a true health policy, or simply to respect the protocols. It's totally incoherent! By doing so, you are fuelling the discrediting of the measures being taken by the Government, which should receive the consent of the people, who have assumed the whole of a health shock to which we were not prepared. Almost all the population respected confinement, despite the enormous constraints that accompanied it and without always having the means to protect themselves – I am thinking of masks and other means of protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u326	Thank you, Congresswoman! Your speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u327	That is why the people today question the Government, that is why...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u328	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u329	Those who have tabled these amendments are not irresponsible. We are aware of the situation. Hear the message: the situation is so anxious that it could eventually overflow, without us being able to predict what will happen then. First of all, we must accept this observation. Give disco managers the faculty of discernment. Mrs. Dubost, you like dancing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u330	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u331	You're not the only one. It is not, however, reserved for young people. Everyone's concerned. The protocol proposed by the discotheque managers, which has not been examined by the Ministry of Health, as early as July – I stress this point – is very clear. It provides for temperature control at the club entrance, verification of identification and collection of a telephone number, or the download of the StopCovid app. In addition, the people would enter in groups of knowledge – if you would respond to my invitation, dear colleague, we would therefore enter two – they would settle at the same table where they would spend the evening, consuming a drink and dancing around their own table, the dance floor being condemned – in other words, dear colleague, we would have spent the evening together without mixing with other groups. It is the same protocol as for bars, even if things become incomprehensible when one knows that in some of them it has been possible to dance and have fun without any rules being respected! There, things become anxiety. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem groups, Action ens and LR]] The discotheque bosses tell us: "Trust us, we want to be responsible with you, as we have been able to do in the past by taking other measures related to AIDS, alcohol driving or alcoholizing minors! " "We are responsible," they added, "we have the human means to enforce the rule, so let us do it. If we don't respect the rules, then sanction us and close our institutions. The protocol is just that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u332	Before we vote, Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u333	I wanted to speak because I heard some enormities in some people's mouths. I don't want to start asking Mr. Secretary of State a question. Indeed, he cited different territories, several cities, but not Marseilles. Rightfully! Marseille hospitals have never been saturated, there have always been beds available in resuscitation and intensive care services. I want to make it clear to national representation that the criteria are constantly changing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u334	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u335	Hospitals are so breathless that we can understand that today, in the resuscitation services, caution leads some colleagues to place people who need only three litres of oxygen in resuscitation. But for someone like me, who has spent many years in resuscitation before moving to psychiatry, it's never before seen! Patients were never resuscitated for two or three litres of oxygen. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] I would also like to make it clear again that the virus has actually been transferred. Is it moving more or less quickly? I do not know, because we are not able to measure the speed of circulation, except because of mathematical models which, since the beginning of the epidemic, have proved to be totally wrong. However, the viral mutants are now significantly less virulent and the clinical tables are absolutely nothing like those we observed at the beginning of the epidemic. [[Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group. – Mr. Philippe Gosselin applauds]] I know I'm a terrible plottist, but let's look at all the European countries. One of them, close to our home, Belgium, will again allow treatment with azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine from next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u336	Oh, the magic treatment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u337	It's not a magic treatment! I respect all people who have lost their lives, and all those who have been treated with this treatment: let's stop saying that there is no treatment! [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches]] I would like to end with what may be a scoop, since the information has just appeared: the Center for Disease Control and Prevention – CDC – which is the American centre for disease control and prevention, has just apologized to the Americans, because the mask, ladies and gentlemen, is of no use whatsoever! Its usefulness has never been proven. The CDC, which is the equivalent of the Scientific Council and the High Health Authority meeting, has just explained that the virus was circulating by manuportage and that it had never been proven that its spread was aerial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Wonner!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u339	I thought it was important to clarify all this. We must stop the government's wandering...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u340	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u341	[[Murmures on a few benches]] It is difficult to speak after intellectual wanderings of this nature, whose inaccuracy creates confusion in the minds of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u342	Thank you for saying it, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u343	Demonstrate him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u344	What I'm saying is factual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u345	"Fcurrent", of course! Go to the resuscitation centres of Marseille hospitals, you will see what is factual! Although we will have the opportunity to speak about it a moment ago, I would like to take a moment to review the situation of the discotheques, which has been the subject of several speeches, in order to remove any ambiguity. Discotheques are obviously part of the nation's effort, and part of our country's economy. It is therefore of course important to the Government that they are not sacrificed or, as I heard earlier, left on the side of the road. That is why – some have recalled – he accompanied the discotheques, like other sectors, especially from a financial point of view. As you know, more than 120 million euros have been brought in to support these institutions. On the other hand, contrary to what many of you have put forward, the protocol has indeed been examined by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u346	Ah, all right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u347	It has even been examined by the Council of State, which has been referred to it as a judge for interim measures by institutions wishing to suspend the decisions of the Government concerning them. In its order of 13 July, the Council of State considered that it was not a question of whether or not the proposed protocol was sufficiently strict, considering that the impossibility of opening such establishments was linked to their intrinsic nature. However, on 13 July, the health situation was less serious than today's. The Council of State therefore confirmed the Government's decision to close the discotheques. To be quite complete on the subject, I would like to add that the High Council for Public Health issued an opinion on 23 July which was in line with this, recommending that these institutions remain closed for health reasons. Mr. Blanchet, I would like to make a second point very clear: the passage of the bill today will certainly not prevent the regulation of discotheques and other establishments from being changed before the end of April, whether to make it more flexible or to tighten it up, depending on the changing health situation. We will adapt, and that is what we have been doing from the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u349	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The passage of the bill is not an irrevocable closure of discotheques until the end of April, as you may have suggested. This needs to be clear to national representation, and perhaps even more so to the people who work in this sector, who listen to us and look at us. I reiterate to them that the Government is well aware of the difficulties they face, and I reaffirm our willingness to support them in the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u350	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 22, 3, 10, 9, 15 and 54, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 3 and 10 are identical. I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u351	It is in line with the position expressed by the Socialist and related groups in the general discussion. We see, and our most recent debates have shown, that we are currently legislating in a kind of scientific fog, where the opinions of both are evolving and uncertain. Since we do not know at all what science will tell us in two months' time, we cannot have a definitive position. We therefore have an obligation, as parliamentarians, to ensure that public freedoms are not imposed for too long or beyond what is indispensable in terms of scientific data. With this in mind, we are asking with this amendment that the state of health emergency should not be lifted in April 2021 but by 30 December 2020, so that Parliament will have to decide again at this time on the state of health emergency and what should be done at that time. In two months' time, we will perhaps see more clearly, and we will in any case have more information on the nature of this evil that gnaws us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u352	We come to identical Amendments Nos 3 and 10, on which I am seized by the UDI Group and independent of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u353	Today we are witnessing a kind of cacophony between the different positions which, moreover, are more often political than scientific. As a result, the French express their annoyance, not to say a certain defiance, or even anger in some, as we were able to see again this whole week. Agacement, distrust, anger at our institutions, which in fact lose their credibility: I think it is very serious. And I am not even talking about the measures of common sense that, while the health crisis was in full swing, were swept away with a back of hand: I am of course thinking of the mask, which the Government considered unnecessary a few months ago – that has already been said – or mass screening, which was also useless, and because: there were no tests! Today, we must again entrust the management of the crisis to Parliament, which must urgently return to its place in order to best serve the interests of the French. My amendment, which is an amendment of withdrawal from the deletion amendment that I have previously tabled, is intended to extend the transitional arrangements for exiting the state of health emergency only until 31 December 2020, instead of 1 April 2021. We do not, of course, ask for the lifting of all existing health measures: we are not irresponsible, contrary to what I heard at the beginning of the general discussion. As we have already said, there are currently in common law the necessary tools to combat the epidemic. Moreover, if necessary, we could meet again as a matter of urgency. All the tools are at our disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u354	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u355	It tends to extend the transitional arrangements until 31 December 2020, not until 1 April 2021. [[Smile]] Let's go back to the discotheques – that's a little bit of a red thread, but we understood that this was an important subject. Many of us have spoken on the subject because we are being told about it in the territories. Mr Secretary of State, you said that we were being watched by those who work in this sector. That's right. As of 1 July, there were 1,600 discos in France; We are now on October 1st, and there are only 1400 left. So there are already 200 of them who have deposited the balance sheet, that is the truth. We are being looked at because aid had to be given to discotheques, for which many of us had mobilized. Under the auspices of the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises, Alain Griset, these aids were obtained as early as July. Only sometimes, between a decision or a memorandum of understanding and its translation into a decree, certain things change. In this case, when the implementing decree was issued in August, 90% of the discotheques were finally no longer entitled to the aid. [[Murmures]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It took the general mobilization of many actors and many outraged... Members, I meant, even though it is true that some of them were also upset. It took this mobilization, especially last Tuesday, before the Assembly, for a new decree to be drafted. It was published this morning, and we can only thank the Government for hearing these requests and understand the urgency of accompanying economically all discotheques and professionals who, since 16 March, were spending money, without the promise of "zero recipe, zero expense" being fulfilled for them – but that is another subject. We can see that there are sometimes loopholes, Secretary of State, between your will and what is written in the texts. For example, as currently drafted, article 45 of the Decree of 10 July 2020 requires the closure of discos and P-type establishments. He doesn't leave the possibility of reopening them! That is why we must maintain parliamentary vigilance. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to extend the transitional arrangements only until 31 December, when we can take stock and evaluate the protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u356	You have to close, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u357	I come back to an important notion raised by the Secretary of State, who said that the Council of State had rejected the proposed protocol, invoking the intrinsic nature of discotheques. What is this intrinsic nature?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u358	I am interrupting you, Mr Blanchet, because your time has expired, but as I am seized of Amendment No 9, which you are also the author of, I would ask you whether you consider it to be defended because it is a matter of the same logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u359	He has to answer the question he just asked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u360	I will speak, Mr President: this will allow me to continue my remarks! It is so rare that we are talking about discos in the Chamber, that I will take some time. What is the intrinsic nature of a discotheque, which prevents it today from proposing a protocol to allow a regulated, monitored, controlled opening, with far less people than its normal capacity? I recall that in the area of fire safety, LES – establishments receiving from the public – are classified. Discotheques are P-type establishments, which therefore cannot accommodate more than four people for three square metres. For type N establishments, restaurants and beverage outlets, the maximum number of persons is one for two square metres. The discotheques propose to move to two persons for four square metres, the same ratio as the N-type facility protocol. I would remind you that these categories only correspond to fire regulations. What I would like to know, Mr. Secretary of State, is what you see as the intrinsic nature of discotheques that would prevent them from opening in spite of a very strict protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u361	We are continuing the joint discussion. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u362	In the words of our group's previous motion for rejection, I would like to point out that this is a question of the timetable for extending the state of health emergency. That is why, in the interests of logic, we propose that the transitional regime should end in January 2021, after the holidays of the end of the year, and that, as Mr Gosselin mentioned, a re-visit clause should then be provided for. At present, there is no justification for extending the transitional regime for as long as you wish, especially since its consequences have been recalled. We therefore wish to align the exit date with the deadline for the retention of personal data, that is, 10 January 2021. This period would allow the transitional measures adopted on 9 July to be extended by two and a half months, giving the Government the opportunity to decide once again on the health situation and to inform Parliament properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u363	On Amendment No 15, which has just been supported, I should like to inform you that I am seized by the Republicans and the UDI Group and independents of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to Amendment No 54, on which I am seized by the UDI Group and independent of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u364	The weight of habit and oblivion. By proposing a six-month extension of the transitional measures, the executive explains to us that it empirically anticipates the fact that the health crisis could command restrictive measures up to that date. It does not, however, be assured – no one can be assured, neither scientists nor ourselves here – that the virus will have completely disappeared or will be completely controlled within six months. But in reality, with this deadline, the Government prepares minds for measures that violate public freedoms to become a norm of common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u365	In six months?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u366	After six months, my colleague, since we are told that a bill on a state of emergency will be introduced in January and will include in the common law measures which, in essence, should be only derogation and limited in time. That is the problem with the six-month deadline you are proposing. We can of course discuss the reasonable time frame: it could be the end of the year, but for our part, we propose the end of January to cover the whole holiday period around the Christmas period. On the other hand, the six-month deadline would allow us to enter into a derogatory regime in which the executive, given its weight, could act as it sees fit, without Parliament's control, for an unacceptable period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u367	What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u368	I will begin by pointing out that I hear and share your fatigue, as well as that of the French, in the face of a new way of life that does not delight anyone, and which does not correspond to a normal life. I know that it is not easy to hear the announcements of the Minister of Solidarity and Health every week; I was sad too a while ago listening to them. It is a feeling that we share in this House. I too look forward to hearing some good news – and I believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u369	The rapporteur is not very credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u370	I come to the date of 1 April, which is the subject of the amendments we are discussing. This date is proposed in full transparency and the additional five months involved will be accompanied by all the guarantees for the state of health emergency, which have lasted for the first three and a half months of the transitional arrangements. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that both the French and the Members of Parliament are well aware of these measures, since they have been applied for several months already. I would also like to recall that the Government has made a commitment to refer a bill on the sustainability of health emergency management systems to Parliament early next year. We will therefore be debating again, starting next January. The state of health emergency regime will expire on April 1st, as stated in the law of March 23rd, 2020. It seems to me useful to give us a medium-term perspective in order to be able to deal effectively and calmly with this particularly important discussion and to devote ourselves fully to it. This period is necessary, which is why it is the date of 1 April which is proposed. I would also like to stress the opinion of the Scientific Council, which considers that the text we propose to vote on today is indispensable. The Council of State, for its part, gave a favourable opinion. It seems important to me to mention these two opinions. Let us not forget that the measures provided for in the scheme are not automatic and must be strictly detailed: they can only be mobilised when the health situation makes them necessary. The objective of the scheme is precisely to be able to adapt the measures, always under the supervision of the judge. Once again, I categorically reject the idea that France would be plunged into an endless state of emergency. The measures taken were authorised by Parliament, validated by the Constitutional Council in July, by the Council of State and by the Scientific Council very recently. They are controlled by the National Assembly and the Senate, which exercise their constitutional prerogatives and, finally, by the judge who ensures that all the constraints laid down by the legislator are respected. That is why we are maintaining the date of 1 April, and for that reason I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u372	I am in danger of being redundant and paraphrasing the words of the rapporteur, who explained very well the reasons why we chose the date of 1 April. Actually, we didn't really choose it ourselves; She's not coming out of our hat. The reasons for this choice have been well described. On the one hand, this duration is necessary to ensure continuity in the management of the epidemic in the coming months. It was recalled that the Council of State and the Scientific Council considered that this necessary period coincided with what could be imagined from the evolution of the health situation in the coming months. The date of 1 April coincides, on the other hand, with the expiry of the state of emergency health regime as you, Members of Parliament, predicted when the law of 23 March 2020 was passed – you remember. By avoiding the introduction of a new prorogation bill, for example at the end of the year, as a number of you propose, the April election will allow us all to devote the next parliamentary debate on this subject to the establishment of a permanent health crisis management regime, and to its conditions and monitoring procedures. By setting the date at the beginning of January, we would be parasitizing the debate on a future sustainable regime. Philippe Gosselin, in his great wisdom...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u373	[[Smile]] So you think I'm wise, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u374	... explained it well earlier: it is two texts, two debates, which meet two distinct objectives. The first aims to provide a legal basis for the measures necessary for the current health situation, while the second aims to build the sustainable health emergency regime for the future. Finally, as the rapporteur pointed out in her concluding remarks, this transitional regime does not of course constitute a blank-seat given to the Government, especially since the principles of necessity, proportionality, adaptation to the circumstances of place and time, under the effective control – as the Government has been able to experience – of the administrative judge apply, and its action is the subject of regular information to Parliament, information which we endeavour to always deliver to you in the Chamber or in committee during the various hearings. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u375	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u376	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Secretary of State, you explain to us that the Scientific Council and the Council of State set this date at the end of March or the beginning of April for scientific reasons. But a few minutes ago, the Minister of Solidarity and Health explained that he did not know what measures he would take for Paris this Monday and that he was waiting to see the evolution of the epidemic this weekend! As I understand it, the minister does not know what will happen on Monday, but you know that the epidemic will stop at the very end of March or early April. All this is a terrible joke! You could have refused, rigorously, the deletion of Article 1, arguing that an exit from the device in October would be too fast. Instead, you're telling us that a bill will be introduced to make certain provisions permanent, but that we can't vote on it until January? Let's be serious! In reality, as my College Pascal Brindeau has said very well, you want to get the French to undergo measures of deprivation of liberty and to organize a transfer of power from the Assembly to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u377	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u378	You are making such a bad use of this power that it will make you very unpopular. Beyond your blackmail to the epidemic, what is unbearable for us and for many French people is that you claim to protect them while in reality the measures you take expose them. This is an incredible paradox! By closing restaurants and bars, you lead young people to find themselves in their homes, which will help spread the epidemic. This shows that you do not trust the professionals or the French in whom you cause a feeling of total distrust of public authority, which is not good for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u379	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u380	Everyone agrees that the bulwark against the virus will be the vaccine. However, it is not expected to be ready until the first quarter of 2021. Then it will have to be manufactured, distributed in all the pharmacies, injected and waited for the antibodies to be produced. This means that we will not have vaccine protection until early April. In other words, the date of April 1 is important – and the opinion of the Scientific Council is no less so. Today, we authorize the Government to take the necessary measures. But if the indicators were to improve, I do not think that the Government would continue to use this authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u381	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u382	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, we're sailing on sight! But let's be humble about the disease. I myself, unfortunately, was wrong: in December, I thought it would have the same effects as the flu that causes 20,000 deaths a year. The rest of the events made me wrong. I was not the only one because, among the professors auditioned by the covid-19 fact-finding mission, many also acknowledged that they had been wrong. We are adapting: decisions are made according to the cycles and the evolution of the situation, which seems to me to be the right solution until 1 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u383	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u384	The rapporteur and the Secretary of State tell us – they are right – that the Council of State has given its consent and that the Constitutional Council validates the measures. All right! But I would say to you that, in its decision of 11 May, the Constitutional Council does not fully validate and has some reservations. I would add that the Council of State, in its decisions of 13 June and 6 July as well as on other occasions, on places of worship and pre-declarations of demonstrations, has also pronounced itself, but in the opposite direction. And it was not acting as a board of the Government issuing an opinion, but in rendering decisions that it had taken as a court. Finally, let us not forget that the Defender of Rights also intervened in the debate. You see, we could take your arguments and overturn them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs. Sereine Mauborgne also applauds]] I believe that questions of public freedom are actually being asked, as well as, of course, real questions of public health that must not be overlooked – we will always be at your side in this regard. The problem is that you lock things up twice by being intransigent on the date of the end of the emergency regimes while we offer you closer deadlines and re-visit clauses. As I recall, the natural place for democratic debate is Parliament; It's not television or anywhere else!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u385	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u386	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] For my part, I know what it means to conduct an electoral campaign against the one who was then the master of time and decrees, and I can tell you that if the cantonal elections and the regional elections were to be so controlled from the beginning to the end, until the choice of the date of the second round, passing through organizational details – when, for example, it will be a question of listing the elderly and contacting them.... You can always exclaim, I know what I'm talking about. Why don't you come to Le Havre and I'll explain it to you? I don't have a problem with that! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Jean Lassalle and Mrs Sereine Mauborgne also applaud]] I therefore believe that the Government cannot put a democratic space under the guise of an electoral campaign. We need to be told today that there will be no election until April 1 if the state of health emergency is to be extended until that date. It is not possible to apply rules with varying geometry depending on the regions, even the departments or the metropolises, to allow public meetings in certain places and to prohibit them in others because the prefect and the local authorities have decided so. This is not possible, Parliament cannot accept this! It's time you saw your copy again, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u387	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u388	I agree with our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq. We all remember the way in which the Government declared a state of emergency on the eve of major elections, when the democratic divide and abstention are already important in normal circumstances, and the consequences of its communication and choices. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] While the situation is uncertain and evolving, the scientists themselves say so, and may make it necessary to review the decisions taken today, that is precisely why we must not give such exorbitant powers to the Government over such a long period of time: it is because we must be able to adapt that Parliament must be consulted. This is all the more true because, as we have said – without having any answer on this point – parliamentary scrutiny is failing since ministers can lie before a parliamentary committee. That is what has happened and we fear that this will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u389	We will vote on the amendments under joint discussion. I would like to point out that some will be the subject of a show of hands vote and others have been the subject of requests for public ballots.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u390	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3 and 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u391	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 51 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 18 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u392	I put to the vote Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u393	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 20 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u394	I put to the vote Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u395	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 54 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 22 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u396	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-01-O1002.u397	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the draft law extending the transitional arrangements for exiting the state of health emergency; Further discussion of the bill to speed up and simplify public action. The meeting is adjourned.
