ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise]] We are meeting today in a unique context as our country is experiencing an exceptional health crisis whose human, civic, economic and social repercussions are still difficult to measure. Allow me, on behalf of the national representation, to express our compassion to the families in mourning and the sick who suffer from the epidemic, and our deep gratitude to all those who work on a daily basis. I am thinking of caregivers and health and relief professionals, but also of all the civil servants and citizens who are mobilized and engaged, often in anxiety and sometimes in distress, who are assisting our suffering compatriots. I call on all our fellow citizens to comply strictly with the recommendations given to us in order to protect ourselves collectively and individually. On your behalf, I would like to offer a special thought to colleagues, staff and collaborators of our current convalescent assembly, and I wish them every success in the best possible conditions and in the shortest possible time. With the dual duty to abide scrupulously by the instructions of the scientific and health authorities and to support our democracy, we are gathered in a reduced number of participants to monitor the actions of the Government and the public authorities. I salute our colleagues who are following our work remotely. From the end of this meeting, the commission concerned by the first of the urgent texts transmitted by the Government will begin its work. These texts are intended to help our compatriots in practical terms in the face of difficulties of all kinds. Then there will be the debate in the Chamber, today on the draft amending finance law, and tomorrow on the draft legislation on emergency measures to be taken concerning the organisation of municipal elections and economic and social issues. I would like to thank the presidents of all the political groups, all the Members, also our non-attached colleagues, who have all agreed, with a high sense of responsibility towards our Republic, that our work should be conducted in unusual ways, linked to the exceptional circumstances of our country. More than ever before, the National Assembly is the beating heart of our Republic and our democracy, whose values and principles we guarantee here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u2	The next item is the question to the Government. The Conference of Presidents has decided on a specific organization of our question-and-answer session: the members of the Government are present in a limited number; It was asked to limit the number of representatives per group – in addition to the president or his delegate, the only authors of the questions were involved. It should be noted that two questions will be asked by each group and one by a non-attached Member. In order to promote coherence of the debate, the issues related to the same theme were grouped together. Speaking times are usual: two minutes per question and by answer, reply and counter-replicate, if any. I invite the speakers not to put their hands on the microphone hose, it will be cleaned after each use by a bailiff. Each microphone will have only one user during this session. I also invite you to stay in the same place throughout the session. Observance of the barrier measures, in particular the staggering of entry and exit, will naturally be necessary. Finally, I would like to say that the Chamber has been disinfected and will be cleaned before and after each sitting. Thank you for your understanding and assistance, given these very exceptional circumstances. We begin our session with general questions about the health crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u3	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u4	The words of national union slam like a flag, like the flag that was displayed this morning at the entrance of the National Assembly, like the one that floats in each of our communes, like the one that animates the hearts of the French in these troubled times. Confident but not resigned, the French struggle by staying at home. This same spirit of responsibility and sense of duty must enliven us, the deputies of the nation and the flagbearers of this hospital France that deserves our gratitude, our support and our full and complete mobilization. If we're here today, it's to save lives and jobs. To save lives, Prime Minister, we must face the health challenge of a medical France that lacks means – masks, resuscitation beds and medicines – but also explanations of delays in delivery and truth. To tell the truth about these elements, as the Director General or the Minister of Health does very well every day on the health situation in our country, is not to argue. Our duty as rulers is to be transparent. Could the Government consider a daily point for the senior defence officer of the Ministry of the Interior or the Minister himself, in connection with our 127 prefects, to present a precise picture of the production, supply and delivery of medical equipment, including masks? These masks are also missing from our police officers, firefighters, home help services and staff in our dependent seniors' accommodation facilities – EHPAD. Responsibility and truth is what we owe to the French. Prime Minister, in the face of an epidemic of this magnitude, there is not only a majority and an opposition, there is above all a united and assembled National Assembly, simply because in the face of the coronavirus, we will only win collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u5	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u6	Mr Abad, I would like to be in the spirit of your speech, your call for national unity and a sense of responsibility, as we face a health crisis of an unprecedented scale, all of which indicates that its consequences will be economic, financial and social. Whatever our responsibilities and convictions – which may differ – we must come together around a simple idea: we must give priority to the general interest, the best interests of the country, and ensure the service of our fellow citizens. You call on the Government and all administrative and political authorities to engage in an exercise, an effort, a discipline of responsibility, truth and transparency. I adhere to that logic. This is what led the Director General of Health and the Minister of Solidarity and Health to speak every day since the beginning of the health crisis to take stock of the evolution of the health situation, the number of patients and deaths. That is also why we have decided to complete the scheme. The inter-ministerial crisis unit is managed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which is responsible for managing the entire health response. In addition to this task force, the inter-ministerial crisis unit will be activated at the Ministry of the Interior to ensure communication on all non-health aspects. As you wish, a communication will be made there every night, at the same time as the Director General of Health intervenes: the Director General of Civil Security will be able to express his views on the progress of the prefectures, on the situation on the ground concerning all the non-health aspects to be taken into account in the management of the crisis. I come to the mobilization of our entire care system, which you obviously had in mind even if you insisted on the hospital. If hospital staff are on the front line, the liberal system – city and country medicine – is directly concerned. Our entire health care system is mobilized, following a strategy presented in a very simple and clear way by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. We try to flatten the curve to the maximum so that the epidemic peak is never too much greater than our total ability to treat the most severe cases of this disease. To do this, we first increased the capacity of the most severe cases: equipment of new beds; transformation of beds for use of resuscitation or intensive care; deprogramming operations that could result in intensive care or resuscitation. Now, we are beginning to move patients who are in highly sought-after areas to territories where there are still places available, obviously respecting the conditions of safety. This is how we used the armed forces to transfer hospitalized patients to Toulon in the Greater East Region. As far as masks are concerned, I will certainly have the opportunity to come back to them in response to other questions. I can already tell you that our objective is to ensure that this scarce resource is used properly, which is not easy, by establishing a doctrine and ensuring that everyone respects it. We also seek to ensure the domestic and international sources of supply of these masks. For a very long time, we have relied on supplies mainly from China, a country that has used much of its recent production for its own needs. In that regard, there will be things to be corrected. We are guaranteeing the distribution of masks in clinics, hospitals, and EHPADs – the Minister of Solidarity and Health will be able to return. Without going into the details, I can tell you that the mobilization is complete. The difficulty is considerable because the number of severe cases is significant. In more than 80% of cases, Covid-19 is reported in unpleasant but benign forms. What is worrying is the number of severe cases – about 10% of the total – that require hospitalization or even resuscitation. That is why we must say, say and repeat this again: containment measures and barrier actions are the most effective elements to slow down the circulation of the virus and thus limit the number of severe cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u7	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u8	Minister for City and Housing, the epidemic facing our country has led the Government to react strongly and courageously, taking containment measures to curb the spread of the virus. At this moment, I have a special thought for our caregivers who are fighting tirelessly, for our elders, for the sick and for all those whose work is affected. But I am also thinking of people living without a fixed home – homeless – who will be subjected to the epidemic of full whipping: 250,000 of whom 3500 in Paris. For these people who are already ill and whose age has to be increased, containment measures will be particularly complicated to implement, as will barrier actions. Day receptions are forced to close while the accommodation centres are already saturated. Protection equipment is lacking despite the increased risk of contamination, and volunteers and staff of associations are currently unable to benefit from child care. While some local government initiatives are useful - I am thinking of the provision of gymnasiums - they are, of course, inadequately effective and humane. The stake here is twofold: health and public safety. In this particularly tense context, I commend the tremendous work of volunteers who face great difficulties, in the absence of available staff, in maintaining front-line activities - food distributions, marauds. It is our duty to protect our fellow citizens, and our responsibility not to leave anyone at the side of the road. What emergency measures will be taken to continue assistance to the most vulnerable? What solutions can be put in place, quickly, to accompany the volunteers of the associations, essential links in our solidarity chain?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u9	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u10	Yes, it is our duty to protect the most fragile. Yes, it is our responsibility to do everything for that, especially with regard to those who are on the street. The mobilization of my department, of the administration, which does remarkable work, of the communities, but also of the associations, which I salute, is complete. First of all, it aims to protect those who still live outside. This is obviously complicated, because it requires special arrangements: we favour, in particular, individual rooms and hotels, with which we work a lot to free as many rooms as possible. The first ones opened last night; In Paris, 170 places will be open before the end of the week, and we will continue this day after day. The second priority is to protect the homeless who would unfortunately have been infected with Covid-19, but who would not need to go to the hospital because their symptoms would not be serious. For them, we are now opening dedicated centres, which will offer by the end of the week 150 places in and around Paris, 80 sites having also been identified for this purpose throughout the national territory. All of this requires resources. An envelope of EUR 50 million is already available and, if necessary, we will go further. All this also requires a perfect organization. This is what we are working with the associations, whose courage, serenity and professionalism I want to pay tribute to as they face challenges, particularly those affecting staff, that we are helping them to meet in the framework of the dedicated pilotage that we have established. Thank you for your mobilization; We must continue: solidarity must never be a victim of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u11	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u12	Prime Minister, thank you and the Government for taking the courageous decision on confinement. Of course, you can count on our support, in the name of the unity we call for. Among the questions raised by the current health crisis are three. The first one concerns masks. At present, several million French people - cashiers, postal workers, firefighters and, of course, all medical personnel - continue to work without masks. They go to work full of anguish for themselves and for their families. It is therefore essential that you tell us where the production of masks is. On 13 March you issued a decree requisitioning the stocks; I would like it to be supplemented by the requisition of production plants, including those which are not used to producing masks but could do so. Secondly, the countries that, for the time being, have been most successful in curbing the epidemic are those that have made massive use of tests on their national territory. Could you please explain the Government's doctrine on this matter again? Given the spread of the epidemic, will it be possible or not to have more tests carried out in order to circumscribe it in places? Finally, while the primary objective today is to save lives, I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to an economic question: you have proposed a two-month deferral of the contributions of the restaurateurs and of all the self-employed, of all those who no longer have any activity, therefore no more money. I would like this postponement to be transformed into a cancellation for two months: it seems very difficult to ask these self-employed workers to pay contributions from money they will not have.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u13	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u14	As far as masks are concerned, I started talking about them by answering Mr Damien Abad's question, and the Minister of Solidarity and Health will complete my answer. We have in fact taken a decree to requisition the masks, of which there are four producers in France, which, by the way, puts our country in a more favourable position than that of several of its European neighbours, which have none. We have thus decided to requisition all production and stocks. In doing so, we have increased the number of masks that we ourselves have in stock: this number, which had fallen with the use of state stocks to fall to some 89 million, has risen above 100 million thanks to the requisition. The fact that the situation changes every day while we tend to freeze our word can give an impression of inconsistency. But we did indeed increase the stock after the requisitions. We proceed to the distributions according to a doctrine of use that I have not decided myself: it is obviously the health authorities that determine it in view of availability and demand. This is what I understood from what they say: the wearing of the mask by the general population is not recommended, first because it is useless when, while walking in the street, one respects the gestures of barriers and the distances of safety, then because it deprives masks those who need it because of their activity - the caregivers, of course, and all those who are in direct contact with the sick - or the patients declared, who must carry them to limit the spread of the virus. The masks available should therefore be reserved for these population categories. That's what I call doctrine. It is important to explain it, to make it understood, and to respect it. You have seen, like me, some of our fellow citizens, out of concern - I will certainly not throw the stone at them - wearing a mask when they are not in contact with sick or sick themselves, nor are they part of the healthcare staff. It is the kind of behaviour that complicates the allocation of the necessary resources to those who need it most. We are in the process of distributing mask stocks to hospitals, EHPADs and official pharmacies, so that Liberal doctors, nurses and all those who are destined to dispose of them can have access to them. These operations are technically delicate, first because the requisition complicated the logistics, but also because of behaviors that are not the majority, but that it would be unrealistic to ignore, and that are not up to the stakes. I am thinking of the disappearance of mask stocks in some hospitals or where they were stored: they do not disappear on their own, but as a result of a precaution flight or to be trafficked on a black market. These behaviours are unacceptable: they endanger caregivers and undermine national coherence and confidence. So we have to crack them down and, believe me, we will. As for the question of testing, we have also drawn up a doctrine in this field. At stage 1 of the epidemic, when it came to avoiding the introduction of the virus into the territory, we tested a lot; This high number of tests at the beginning of the epidemic has made it possible to narrow down the first appearances of the virus quite effectively, which has saved us a necessary time. This is what happened in the Alps or at the beginning of the appearance of a cluster in Morbihan. Now, the doctrine is to test those who have symptoms of Covid-19 infection and who are hospitalized, caregivers who have symptoms, and the first two people who have symptoms in an EHPAD, so that they can take containment measures very quickly when necessary. In short, in Stage 3, the doctrine of the use of tests could only evolve: it would no longer be useful to test everyone, preventively or according to symptoms, because it would embolden our analytical capabilities and thus not allow us to react quickly enough where it is absolutely necessary. We developed a test very quickly - I say that because that has not been the case everywhere. But to analyze it, we need reagents, so an efficient supply chain to be able to continue to produce them. However, as a result of containment, several logistics lines are interrupted or complicated. This is one of the challenges we will face in the coming days and weeks: to ensure that containment instructions are strictly adhered to while allowing for the continuation of the necessary activity in the country, which is not limited to strategic activity. For example, shutting down a plant that manufactures packaging, the activity of which may seem non-strategic, may prevent the distribution of food products, masks or medicines, creating a very dangerous material situation. A problem of this type, now identified and resolved, has recently affected a reagent production centre. We must therefore maintain, even in times of containment, the minimum level of economic activity necessary for the life of the country and for the preparation of the rebound. I come to your last question on the economy. The emergency measures that we will present this afternoon in the Senate and tomorrow in the National Assembly are massive. You ask us to go beyond it; The question will necessarily arise, but let us start by focusing on what we are now proposing, which should allow each company to hold in this period of complete destabilization, so that it can then bounce back. This is our logic; It will require a great deal of resources and a great commitment from the State, from the whole nation, from the regions, which have announced that they will accompany us on this path, and from the trade unions and employers' organizations, which we have consulted and which have also committed themselves to. The situation will be tense, it will be difficult, but I am confident that, thanks to the general mobilization, we will be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u15	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u16	Among the many obstacles that health professionals face every day, at all times, in the fight against the epidemic that is crippling our country, one of the most worrying that the world has experienced in recent years, we can only deplore the chronic lack of equipment, especially protective masks. The policy of requisitioning is urgently to be perfected. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to simplify import conditions, in particular by taking into account only health standards. In addition, it is not tolerable to set priorities between health actors: each link is essential, be it hospital, city medicine, home helpers, midwives, healthcare workers in EHPADs, paramedics, firefighters, law enforcement officers, or even cashiers. Each person performs essential work, at the risk of his or her own health or that of his or her loved ones. In this state of health emergency, the State owes them all recognition and protection. Some professionals in the medical sector, such as dentists, recommend stopping care because of a lack of personal protective equipment. An example of this is an office of three liberal nurses located in the Vosges: they had to receive fifty masks each, to ensure their safety and that of their patients – they received fifty for three. You promised all these professionals to protect them; Unfortunately, this is not the case because of the lack of equipment. Do you intend to simplify and speed up import procedures? How will you make distribution policy more efficient and egalitarian, in order to protect professionals and French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u17	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u18	You ask me about the protective material for those who care for us, who care for the sick. When I answer you, I think very strongly of them. I will quote figures, so that everyone can measure the extent of the current distributions. At my request, we destocked 25 million surgical masks at the beginning of March, and we used a requisition of all the stocks and production capacities of our country on March 3. We are the only country to have achieved what is called a complete monitoring of stocks, production capacity and needs; We then had, I said right away, a state stock of about 150 million surgical masks, and no FFP2 masks. Indeed, following the health crises of 2011 and 2013, it was decided that it was no longer necessary to maintain massive stocks in the territory, considering that production plants were able to be active very quickly, particularly in China. But here's the thing: the health crisis first hit China. Its factories were stopped and European countries found themselves in difficulty. I say, therefore, with force: FFP2 masks and surgical masks are precious, indispensable, vital goods; We must use them with the greatest parsimony. Guidance is provided for health professionals and some patients, to whom they are prescribed. Those to whom they have not been recommended should not wear them. As I said, on 17 and 18 March, 12.3 million surgical masks and FFP2 were destocked, destined for some 20,000 official pharmacies, primarily in the most tense departments; delivery was completed today. For the past two days, many health professionals - probably not all of us, we will complete as we go - have been able to go to their office to receive them, in accordance with a rationing logic, presented to each union and each corporation. I would add that since last night, a delivery of 17 million masks is under way, which will last until tomorrow, to all hospitals, local hospital groups, EHPADs and health transport organizations. In total, nearly 30 million masks were destocked and delivered in three days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u19	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u20	We are experiencing a very serious health crisis, as everyone has said. It demands that we all live up to it. Prime Minister, Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to express the support of the Freedom and Territories Group; national unity is at the rendezvous: we are here, and we agree with the declaration of the state of emergency. You recalled that the protective gestures are beginning to be known; they require an even wider support from the French. Their adherence to containment is also essential: for the first time, China does not know new cases, and we know very well that it is due to the observation of a very strict containment. This one must be accompanied psychologically, because it causes anxiety, sometimes even panic scenes, as one could see for fear of a famine. In this context, it seems to me that the media can play a key role in accompanying containment. As Olivier Véran, whom I greet, has just said, we must also reassure about the masks. For example, home nursing services – SSIAD – are not a priority: we need to tranquillize them as to their ability to protect themselves in the coming weeks. Biologists are also not a priority. I really want the number of masks made available to the French to inspire confidence: they must understand that you are doing everything possible. We know it is, but we have to say it and explain it. It is necessary to guarantee flows, so as to protect those who save. The medical community is exemplary, generous and professional. In my department of Eure-et-Loir, we decided yesterday to set up "Covid-19 centres". Hospitals are beginning to be overloaded; With the support of the mayors, we will open municipal halls, where medical teams, including nurses, will welcome patients to perform a screening. Those who require urgent care will receive it, while those who do not suffer from symptoms will be monitored remotely. We must support this initiative, because the peak is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u21	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u22	While you were asking your question, the Minister of Solidarity and Health confirmed to me that home nursing services were part of the mask recipient lists. There will certainly be questions about how many people are affected, whether it is enough, what I can hear perfectly. Nevertheless, I wanted to answer you on this point, and I thank the minister for his contribution. You said it, but I think it's always necessary to repeat it, the best way to fight the spread of the virus is to follow the instructions. I am referring here to the general population, not the members of the health care community, for whom the masks are intended, as I said earlier, in response to Ms. Valérie Rabault's question. Containment is not a curfew; However, it is intended to prevent people from leaving home, to restrict contacts to the maximum and to limit travel to races, care and work, where possible, i.e. to the five cases that the French are beginning to experience. Strictly respecting containment and barrier actions is the best way to help caregivers. For all of us, who are not caregivers, it is a matter of allowing them to absorb the shock at best, by limiting the circulation of the virus. Today, when you love someone, you must not go hold him in your arms. It is counter-intuitive and painful: you are right to say that this experience can lead to psychological disturbances. Yet that is what we must do. Today, those who want to help caregivers can applaud them at twenty o'clock from their balcony, making a rather remarkable gesture, but it can also be said that it is perhaps less spectacular, but equally important, to respect the barriers and remain confined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u23	Don't stand in the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u24	I do not oppose them at all, Mr Mélenchon, I say that it is at least as important. With regard to the initiatives that you are referring to, Mr Vigier, I would tend to say that this period of crisis will probably lead us to see what humanity is most beautiful, as perhaps what it is darkest. I mentioned earlier the traffickers of scarce resources, like masks: they reveal the dark part of the human soul, even if it is probably even darker.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u25	There are also false disinfectors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u26	We also see admirable initiatives, of solidarity, of intelligence, of commitment: they must be able to prosper. We must ensure that this generosity, solidarity and elevation of the soul are effective, or at least not counterproductive. That is why I would like to point out that the initiative you are quoting must be well coordinated with the local health authorities, in order to be sure that people are not then placed in an even more difficult situation. Since you're involved, I'm sure that will be the case. Together, we will have to strengthen these initiatives, enabling them to flourish under difficult and constrained circumstances. Indeed, they will be necessary to maintain trust, hope and social bond, necessarily diminished during a period of confinement. I insist on this because our fellow citizens are wonderful in civicism when they decide to fight together for a cause of general interest. Undoubted resources of intelligence and generosity are emerging: we need to mobilize them to resolve this serious health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u27	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u28	The moment that our nation is going through is as serious as it is unheard of. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to pay tribute to the caretakers and all the Republican forces in the front line of the fight against the virus. We address our most supportive thoughts to French and French people affected by this historic epidemic. We assure you, Prime Minister, of our complete availability and strict compliance with the instructions issued by the health authorities. However, there can be no unity of the country without confidence in your action. However, you said during your interview with the French television newspaper 2 that you had consulted the political parties on the maintenance of the first round of municipal elections. You know that as I do: we have not been consulted on this point. You also admitted that the former Minister of Solidarity and Health, Mrs Agnès Buzyn, had alerted you as early as January about the upcoming disaster. Why didn't you tell us? Why didn't you then adopt the necessary measures? If, as she says, you knew, why are we lagging behind in the production of masks, protective gloves and hydro-alcoholic gel, indispensable for the protection of caregivers and employees, and desperately lacking? Why do we not have sufficient numbers of tests to organise widespread screening, in order to allow for faster and more effective management, as advocated by the World Health Organization? The transparency that you owe to the French and to national representation must be complete; We call for the creation of a permanent parliamentary monitoring committee, in order to monitor your action in the interests of all, in the struggle that must unite us today. More than ever before, democratic control of the Government is important and must be imposed, as suspicious trust is impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u29	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u30	Since the first day, a transparency exercise before the French has taken place daily, with the intervention of a minister, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic or the Director General of Health. The history of our country has been deeply marked, bruised, by major health crises, in whose management transparency has not always been a cardinal virtue. The result is known: a significant loss of confidence in the scientific and political elites. The issue of transparency is therefore vital; all reports to be submitted and investigations to be conducted in due course. You can imagine that we are currently busy helping caregivers save lives; We have been working all the time to support the services mobilized day and night for weeks to carry out this mission. I hear the need for transparency; I have been a Member of Parliament and I am not shocked about this. In the same spirit of transparency, I would like to tell you that if we had not had an informed health minister, if we had not had a well-informed and constantly alerted government and Prime Minister, if I had not had a health director-general who was also alerted and constantly alerted, we would never have been able to intervene as we did in Contamines-Montjoie, in Haute-Savoie, even though the epidemic did not exist in Europe, and no European country or almost any other country spoke of coronavirus as a real and imminent threat. It is because, since the first day, everything has been done in anticipation to be able to intervene when the virus enters our territory that we were able to delay, week after week, the arrival of the epidemic, which was nevertheless inevitable. However, there was no evidence that this outbreak would hit us this week or next week or last week. We did not have any indicators, there was no scientific consensus in this area. Yet, as you know, scientific consensus, we are looking for it, scientists, we are consulting on it – and we are doing it again in full transparency: all their opinions are accessible to you, as they are accessible to all French people. Please believe that transparency is really our cardinal value, the one that guides us and mobilizes us from the beginning, the one that has enabled us to act effectively from the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u31	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u32	In the light of this tragedy, we rediscover how much health is a common good and how much it requires strong public services and in the fullness of their capacities. Our caregivers will face, they will block – but we must listen to them, help them, remove any obstacles, suspend the ongoing removal and reduction operations to allow the hospital to organize; cash must be provided to the latter, in particular in order to purchase equipment. The praises must, as far as possible, be translated into acts: a special protocol for the follow-up of caregivers; where possible, an ambitious plan to hire staff, including service staff, to ensure the highest possible level of hygiene. Would it not be time to get out of the policy of staff restraint and to create real room for manoeuvre by means of a bill to amend the financing of social security? On the other hand, the dropper distribution does not reassure. Is it not necessary to respond more effectively to the demands for equipment, sterile and non-sterile gloves, masks by trusting caregivers, both in the city and in the hospital, to ensure that the equipment is used in a way that is appropriate to needs and instructions? Could you clarify your procurement policy? With regard to respirators, would it not be possible to mobilise certain industries that would have the capacity to adapt to produce them? The third question is that there are now a number of tools and know-how that can be organised within a cluster serving a public drug policy. For example, in the Lyon region, a laboratory is now unrecognized. Do you intend to mobilize them or even requisition them to produce the medicines we need? How do you control prices in order to combat potential profitors of the crisis? What about, for example, the margin on Covid-19 tests? Finally, and even if a profound reorientation of policy in this area would be necessary, have you already taken steps to meet the needs of researchers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u33	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u34	As far as funding is concerned, I will reply by paraphrasing the President of the Republic: "No matter what it costs". The question is not how much it will cost us, it is how to spend: how to accompany research, how to accompany care... You will never hear from us any word about possible budget restrictions, as we face an unprecedented health crisis, and our caregivers have been mobilized 24 hours a day for weeks to save lives. The question does not even arise. If we have, on several occasions in the past, debated budgetary matters, I repeat, today the question does not arise. You have asked a lot of questions, honourable Member, and I would like to answer a few factually. With regard to respirators, France placed a public order to acquire 1132 respirators from a French company. As the stocks are available, we have been able to recover this amount of respirators, which will allow us to raise the load and increase the number of resuscitation beds, particularly in the field hospitals that we might have to build, as is already the case in the vicinity of Mulhouse, where the construction of a field military hospital has begun to help hospitals in the Greater East region. For the first time, we have proceeded – and I know you will be sensitive to it, Mr Dharréville – to a total requisition of the stocks and production capacities of masks and protective equipment in our country, which shows our determination. We placed a public order with all the French companies that manufacture masks so that they produce them 24 hours a day; The production capacity is now 8 million copies per week – that's another figure that I deliver to you in full transparency. I signed a decree that capped the selling price of hydro-alcoholic solutions, in order to avoid price inflation – there had begun to be increases of up to twenty-five times overnight in some of the companies. By way of derogation, I have authorized all pharmacists who can produce their own hydro-alcoholic gel. There are also solidarity movements on the part of companies. The LVMH group Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, for example, has started producing hydroalcoholic gel, which it makes freely available to hospitals; textile or paper companies are reorienting their production to mask manufacturing. Finally, I say it loud and clear, if it turns out that a medicine can properly treat the French, we would not only carry out its massive production, but we would also make sure that this production would benefit the French patients. Of course, there are issues of European solidarity, but unfortunately I cannot explain everything here – especially since I have already been too long. However, last night, I was discussing with my German counterpart the role of biotechnology companies in producing the treatments needed to save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u35	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u36	Prime Minister, never before had any of your predecessors faced a test comparable to the health crisis, the cause of so many deaths, which struck France and the world. Our country had never suffered such a brutal halt to its activity, with unpredictable economic consequences. Never before had our fellow citizens been so directly responsible for their own lives, through simple gestures, that they were still too many to refuse to do. This threefold newness of the situation shows the complexity of your task, and also the difficulty of ours in the exercise of our constitutional duty to control government action. Today, public action is under the fire of many interpellations, which are all exutories to the anxiety that dwells on each and every one of us. First, did we prepare ourselves early enough to defend ourselves against coronavirus? Secondly, is our administrative and political organization suitable for dealing with dramas of this magnitude? Thirdly, is our public health system up to the dedication of the caregivers who make it work? Fourthly, does not the necessary confidence between policy-makers and medical representatives suffer from too recent a construction? Since the beginning of this crisis, we are all aware of the promise of transparency that you have made to us and that you have never betrayed. If this transparency makes any polemic spirit futile, which is to be welcomed, it must commit you to tell us, Prime Minister, if our country has really put all the chances on its side to win what the President of the Republic has called "war".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u37	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u38	You are right, Mr.President Le Gendre: our country is facing a health crisis as it has probably not been in for a century – and this expression must take on its full meaning. Moreover, it is not only our country that is in this case: it is also true for Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany; This is true everywhere in Europe and it is likely that this will eventually be true all over the world. Is our health system, as it is built, capable, given what we know about this disease, of coping with a concomitant influx of severe cases? The answer is no; but no system in the world would be able to cope with the massive and simultaneous influx of cases requiring resuscitation or reception in an intensive care service. This is why we are adopting all over Europe, even if it is sometimes a few days apart, the same solutions, namely to promote barrier actions, to increase the capacity of hospital establishments, to receive as much as possible in good conditions severe cases, and to place in confinement most of the population, after having closed schools, when the virus begins to circulate too quickly. It is interesting to note that, while at the very beginning of the health crisis, approaches diverged, all national officials now turn to the same solutions. Consider that, at the end of January and the beginning of February, we, the French Government, wanted to mobilise our European counterparts, Ministers of the Interior and Health, to collectively define elements for a coordinated response and that, when we have advocated for such meetings – the Minister of Solidarity and Health can testify – many of the health ministers of the European Union states replied: "Why do you want us to organise these meetings? There's no case in our house, there's no emergency! What I'm telling you is true: we realized very early that the inevitable epidemic would have massive consequences and we tried to coordinate actions, but some felt that we had not grasped the seriousness of the situation. As I speak to you, everyone, including the United Kingdom, who had initially adopted a somewhat different strategy, gradually recognizes the need for containment – even if it is each with its own words and according to the characteristics of its country. So, last night, Chancellor Merkel, given the history of her country, did not want to impose confinement, but she strongly recommended to her fellow citizens to stay home, that is, to provide a response comparable to that we have provided. In other words, all the countries facing this health crisis have understood that it is necessary both to confine people to their homes, to increase barriers, to increase capacity in hospitals and to mobilize the entire system to ensure that the epidemic peak is smoothed as far as possible. And, for our part, this is what we are doing, in a determined way, by thinking of the most fragile, by accompanying as far as possible those who are in the front line, by mobilizing energies throughout the national territory – I take this opportunity to bounce back on the question asked by Pierre Dharréville about the breathers: it is necessary that the national industry, which, I insist, must continue to function, can help us to equip all those who need to be. That is the challenge we face. The stakes are extremely important. This is a considerable responsibility, not just on the shoulders of the head of Government or members of the Government, but on all those who speak to our fellow citizens, all those who act in the service of our fellow citizens. In this fight, fortunately, no one is alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u39	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u40	My questions – because I have several – concerning several ministers, I will address them to the first of them. I will start with a health issue. In Western Herault, we too face a shortage of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels. In particular, we were arrested in Béziers by the Liberal nurses. The town hall requisitioned the rest of the freezes used for the voting operations on Sunday 15 March and handed them over to them, but that will not be enough. The deliveries announced by the President of the Republic have not yet arrived. Local pharmacies only receive mask boxes at the dropper. Why are you so late? We need an explanation! My second question is security. Since the confinement came into force, the police have found that its effectiveness is more than mixed. With a certificate of honor, you can leave your home ten times a day, on the pretext of going to buy your food. Moreover, while the police and gendarmerie forces control movements, they cannot be everywhere. In Béziers, the municipal police carried out no less than 300 checks and issued 50 minutes in yesterday's day alone. What new measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation? Are you considering a curfew to simplify the task of law enforcement? This seems to me to be a necessity today. Another question, concerning local and regional authorities. The partial unemployment measures announced by the Government apply only to the private sector; Public law contractors are not entitled to benefit from it. Could a derogation be made so that local and regional authorities can make use of it? I shall conclude with an economic question. Bitterrois business leaders have alerted us that they have not been able, as they would have wished, to use their lost operating insurance to deal with the crisis, as almost all contracts exclude the epidemic event. What solution does the Government intend to propose to remedy that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u41	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u42	You have raised many questions, to which I will not be able to provide all the answers in two minutes. On the other hand, I can share information specific to the Occitanie region, which may be of interest to you. First, according to the announcements of the President of the Republic, masks were delivered on 18 March to liberal doctors and nurses in the region. Today is March 19th: the masks arrived yesterday. You consider these deliveries to be insufficient in relation to the needs, which are strong. In reality, everything depends on the doctrine of mask use and the rational resilience of their use. This doctrine was presented to the various health professionals, whether they are liberal physicians, nurses, physiotherapists or pharmacists. Things are getting organized. It is true that the current situation is putting a supply chain in tension which is not used to it and which must be extremely reactive. This reactivity, for example, ensured the emergency re-assortment of two health facilities as early as 16 March – still in Occitanie. On the other hand, we regret some loss of masks – in reality, thefts. This is an extremely destructive phenomenon for the delivery and supply chains of pharmacies and hospitals: 14,000 masks, indispensable to protect caregivers and patients, have for example been stolen from Montpellier hospital. Stealed! Masks are stolen daily in hospitals and sometimes even in clinics – not by pharmacists, who are the first victims of these robberies. I make it clear: we must hold a speech of responsibility about the use of these masks, because every flight is extremely destructive for the whole chain of organisation and delivery. With regard to the Occitanie region to which you refer, I repeat that the delivery to official pharmacies took place on 18 March, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, and that the emergency re-assortment of two health facilities which were in great need of it took place as early as 16 March.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u43	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u44	Prime Minister, they and they are on the front line. I refer to all health care professionals working in our hospitals, liberal offices, pharmacies or EHPADs, but also at home. I want to pay tribute to them here, because their dedication is exceptional. They're at the front and front line, because we're at war. Yet they are sent to fight without protection. Two days ago, in a CHU, the nurses and caregivers of a medical department had to give up wearing the mask, on the ground that there was not enough for everyone. A professor of medicine at the hospital of Pitié Salpêtrière in Paris yesterday said that its structure had, until Friday, insufficient stocks of masks. Two pharmacies in my constituency, although they were delivered on Wednesday, received only 500 masks to supply doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and pharmacy personnel. This is not enough: they will be out of stock again in a week, without any guarantee as to the next delivery. In his speech, the President of the Republic said: "We owe them masks, frost, all the necessary equipment, and we watch and watch over it". For the time being, the promise is not being kept. What about firefighters, law enforcement officials, cashiers, or garbagemen, that is to say, all those who work in contact with the population, also without masks! How did we get to this shortage situation? In time, when the crisis is behind us, in the light of Mrs Buzyn's statements, many questions will arise. You will have to answer to the national representative, but above all to the caregivers and the French. For the time being, can you guarantee us that, from tomorrow, throughout the national territory, all healthcare staff – whether in practice, in hospital, in EHPAD or at home – but also the pharmacy staff, firefighters and paramedics will have the means, as long as the crisis lasts, to protect themselves in order to protect us? Additional question: Will you remove the waiting day for civil servants with Covid-19?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u45	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u46	We will have to answer collectively the question of whether France has, for the last ten years, the capacity to deal effectively with the need for very much increased means of protection, in an epidemic context. Until 2011, then until 2013 – not until 2020, but until 2013, i.e. under previous legislatures – the state stock has numbered 1 billion masks. It was decided in 2011 and 2013 that this stock was no longer essential, as the world's mask production capacity was high, particularly in Asia. However, the health crisis hit the world's first producer country, China, which exploited all its stocks and means of production. I would also like to thank China for its gesture towards France: yesterday we received a million masks from that country in solidarity. When we reached out to the Chinese who needed masks and equipment, we had some criticisms, some asking if such a decision was reasonable. For my part, I am very pleased that we have shown solidarity, because the latter is usually paid back. As we now need the help of all the countries able to provide it to us, we can pride ourselves on receiving such support in our turn. I could mention the countless orders we are placing around the world to obtain protective equipment. That equipment's coming. Things are progressing. As I indicated to Mr Dharréville, our action is not guided by any financial considerations: as soon as we can buy masks, we do so. However, they must be secure and meet the standards of protection. We also produce them, in the quantities I mentioned earlier. We have defined a doctrine of the distribution of masks, which we apply in full transparency. City doctors, medical biologists and city nurses are given eighteen masks per week and professionally, as are official pharmacists. Massagers-kinesitherapists receive six masks a week, so they can make choices and manage emergencies. The same number of masks is allocated to midwives. The dental surgeons – whom I recently met with the council of the national order – have managed to organize themselves to ensure the delivery of masks and will be able to respond to all emergencies in France for at least six weeks. We also work with home help services to simplify the delivery and supply system. Needs are changing very rapidly and very strongly from one territory to another, depending on the intensity of the virus's circulation. So we need to be reactive. We work in this direction with professionals. If I ever have to respond to polemics, I will see no problem: we will be able to meet and debate in full transparency. However – everyone must be aware of this – it is time to devote all our collective forces and energy to supporting those who save lives every day in hospitals and in city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u47	We continue our session with questions on economic and social issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u48	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u49	Prime Minister, the health catastrophe that our country is experiencing – with the epidemic of coronavirus and the containment measures that it has caused – has plunged France into a major economic crisis in a few hours. We have already experienced such crises. That of 2008 had caused GDP to fall by two and a half points and demanded an effort of 45 billion euros from the state. But the current crisis is particularly violent: it affects all businesses, all activities, all territories, all French. The concern is at its peak: Bpifrance, the public investment bank, has registered in four days 12,000 requests for assistance, half of which concerns TPEs – very small companies. The urgent need is to preserve employment and avoid bankruptcies. We have to go fast and just type. For this reason, the Republicans are in agreement with the Government's measures to prevent cash flow difficulties and to compensate for operating losses. Eric Woerth had recently tabled a bill to that effect. The questions flow to our permanences: how to access partial unemployment when companies have suspended their activity to protect their staff and customers? Some people don't get it. Is it not legitimate to access the solidarity fund even if we do not reach exactly the 70% cut-off threshold? How to secure commercial leases if rents are not paid? How will we recover when we have to pay the deferred expenses and repay the loans? So many questions and anxieties expressed, which require answers and probably adjustments by amendment. To remember no one, so that this pandemic will not be doubled by an economic collapse, in order to be able to answer all these questions in the best possible way, are you ready, Prime Minister, to study with the Members of the Republican Group the changes that would be necessary?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u51	Thank you for highlighting the collective mobilization that prevails over these economic issues, at a time when companies – first and foremost the TPEs – are very concerned about their situation and are seeking massive assistance. This aid exists; it is in place; It's unheard of. Here I want to remind you of the main axes. First of all, it provides for the possibility of access to a partial activity scheme which is not equal in the history of France, since we will ensure that wages are paid up to a level equivalent to 4,5 SMIC. The idea is to preserve the link between the employee and the company, so that it can restart when the crisis is over. The Minister of Labour, who created this system, can confirm to you that the company has 30 days to file its application, that the consideration of it will be retroactive and that all companies will benefit from it, regardless of their status – I insist on this point. Secondly, we postpone the social and tax deadlines for companies whose cash position is tense due to the coronavirus. I am making this point because we have received requests from large companies in perfect financial health: it is obvious that these are not involved. For companies in difficulty, the process will be simple like a phone call, an email, or a connection to the dedicated website. The DIRECCTE – Regional Directorates of Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment –, the KICs – Chambers of Commerce and Industry – and the CMAs – Chambers of Crafts and Crafts – will be supporting, through specific telephone numbers, companies. You have raised the question of companies that would not be able to pay their expenses in the future. We will, of course, take this into account, as we do in normal times for all firms in difficulty, when we define payment schedules with them. A discount will therefore be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u52	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u53	Madam Secretary of State, alongside the caregivers, to whom we will never pay enough tribute, work everywhere in France those who, thanks to their work, allow our country to continue to function. I refer to all the workers who, in companies and when the necessary precautions for health organisation are taken, are turning the economy of our country around. They are all those who participate in the war economy by working in food, industry, logistics or transportation. On behalf of the national representation, I want to pay tribute to them today. We produce enough to feed the French and ensure their daily lives. We have to go on like this. The French were confined to their children or on telework, but many went to their places of work. In each company where the activity continues, the necessary arrangements have been made with great rigour and employees are working for France to continue to live. From the fork to the fork, in all the factories where managers and employees organized the work without health risk, on the construction sites or in the communities, we count many heroes of everyday life. They ensure the daily lives of the French and produce wealth, to finance today's support measures and the revival of tomorrow. In a war, there are soldiers, but also those from the back. They must know that they have our gratitude and that we are counting on them. So can you reassure the national representation and the French that there will be no supply problems or shortages, thanks in particular to all those who ensure that, despite the crisis, everyone continues to work, whenever possible without risk?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u55	First of all, thank you for focusing on all those who, in support of the first health line, continue to run our country and allow the production of medicines and food, as well as the distribution of these essential goods, to continue throughout the national territory. I will not mention all the sectors concerned – transport, waste management, water management, banks, logistics – which are now in operation and which provide absolutely essential services to all French people. I want to reassure you: the entire agri-food industry, from production to distribution, is fully committed to ensuring the regularity of the French diet. The regularity of production, of course, by focusing on essential goods and increasing production. To do this, we are acting with the Ministry of Labour to ensure the protection of employees – this is a necessity. We know how to produce by respecting the rules and actions of the barriers, including by fitting out the workplaces. Transport and logistics regularity: the Secretary of State for Transport will shortly issue a decree to adapt the working environment to ensure the greatest possible safety for employees and enable them to continue delivering. Regularity of the distribution finally: every day we carry out a telephone point with the whole sector to ensure its ability to cover all the needs of the French, by lifting all the barriers – including by relaxing working conditions and schedules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u56	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u57	Minister of Economy and Finance, since the beginning of the crisis, your ministry has been fully mobilized and the UDI-Agir Group would like to acknowledge the work done by your services, in a completely new health context for a century. Thanks to an unprecedented contingency plan, you are taking action to support and protect our businesses, avoid their bankruptcy and preserve employment. Yet these arrangements, which we will support in the consideration of the amending finance bill, have inconsistencies that lead to the injury of some of the actors in our economic fabric: the self-employed, the traders and the artisans. Indeed, although it is natural that large areas can supply the French with food and basic necessities, we can ask ourselves about the relevance of other goods, which are less indispensable, such as clothing, flowers, DIY equipment and leisure products. Small businesses offering this type of product are also forced to close. It is a fact that large areas benefit – perhaps involuntarily, but very directly – from the peaks of influx caused by the health crisis to increase their profit, while others die. In all the territories, we are alerted by the self-employed and the traders, who assist, helpless, in this observation. They rightly fear that they will not be able to survive this crisis economically. What measures can you propose to avoid further distortion of competition? We would also like to warn you about the need to control the prices that fly, especially in Rungis: what measures specifically adapted to the status of these workers who are deprived of income do you intend to introduce?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u59	First of all, I want to reassure you: artisans and traders must know that they can count on us, because we have a massive economic support plan. To the measures of partial unemployment for their employees and of cash support which I have already mentioned, I would add the creation of a solidarity fund specifically dedicated to self-employed workers with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million per year and which, as a result of the decrees, had to close their trade. Workers in various sectors who have lost more than 70% of turnover since the beginning of the crisis will also be able to access it. [[The Secretary of State is taking a cough]] Fortunately, however, not all traders are closed: no matter their size, food and hygiene stores continue to operate. For traders who are closed, we will provide support to ensure that they have access to online sales platforms so that they can continue to operate in spite of... Forgive me, this is very inappropriate in the current context...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u60	Madam Secretary of State, I suggest that you interrupt your answer to drink a glass of water.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u61	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u62	Prime Minister, on 14 March, the Minister of Solidarity and Health drew up in an order a long list of establishments that could no longer accommodate the public. In the same Order, it established a list of activities which, as an exception, are authorized. One step above, the President of the Republic called for the people: "If you want to help us, you have to stay at home. On 18 March, however, the Minister of Labour expressed concern about the alleged abuse of partial unemployment, and the Minister of Economy and Finance urged all employees of the companies he described as essential to get to work. However, it was never stated in the decrees what was essential activities. These conflicting injunctions create confusion and warrant clarification. In some companies, for example in the automotive industry, the mobilization of trade unions has made it possible to put an end to the activity. Their employees can now confine themselves, without prejudice to the interests of the nation. A question therefore arises: who decides what is essential or not? This issue cannot be decided only by a handful of members of the executive. The health situation requires broad human and social mobilization: workers must meet in production places to discuss it under the best sanitary conditions; The scientific community, political groups and, above all, employees must be involved. Once the essential activities are defined, the protection of workers must be guaranteed, in association with the main stakeholders. I am thinking in particular of the garbagemen of Otus, in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis, who exercised their right of withdrawal yesterday because they had no masks or means of washing their hands properly. Prime Minister, how is the scope of core activities defined? Would you agree to involve other parties, such as trade unions or the scientific community, in this definition? Finally, how do you intend to protect our heroes, whether in white coats, work blues or fluorescent vests?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u63	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u64	Thank you for your question, which makes it possible to clarify the situation. The decree made on Sunday prohibits certain activities, such as the opening of bars and restaurants: everyone knows the list. All employees in these sectors are, of course, automatically in partial unemployment. In the field of work, what is not prohibited is in fact allowed. But I would like everyone to realize that we are very interdependent in terms of health continuity: we support all the caregivers who, in this war, are at the front, but in the back – to continue in military language – the activities continue. French people need food and cleaning products; they need the internet to follow the school from home and telework; they need electricity and transport. I will not decline the whole list of their needs, but when we look from end to end, there is no trade that is useless to the nation. I would therefore like in my turn to greet the auxiliaries of life, the cashiers, the delivery drivers, the waste pickers, all those who, through their work, contribute to the action of the nation and to the support of our caregivers. But – and our opinions will join – it cannot be done at any price: there is no question of endangering the protection of employees. My first priority is to safeguard employment, which is why we have planned an important plan for partial unemployment, as France has never known before; But, ex aequo with this one, my other priority is the protection of employees. This morning, I solemnly called on all companies that have not yet done so to convene their Social and Economic Committee or their Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions today to discuss the conditions of protection and the organisation of work. If the work is to continue, it must also change: we must work differently to ensure the protection of employees. Perhaps the work will be degraded, slowed down, incomplete, if the teams do not cross and the distances are greater due to a new transport organisation; But it is essential. I therefore appeal to the employers' responsibility: we make a telephone call every day with the trade unions and employers' organisations, and the message today is to discuss within the companies to organise the work while protecting the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u65	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance has the floor to complete her answer to Ms. Patricia Lemoine, who had only been outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. After referring to the creation of a solidarity fund, I wanted to conclude by adding that with Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, we are working to establish digital platforms at the disposal of artisans and traders, so that they can continue to work even if their shops are closed. In both China and Italy, delivery requirements have increased, particularly in the catering sector. The French are at home, but do not necessarily cook at every meal. We therefore organise platforms to allow artisans to continue their activity and to have a turnover, but also to render to the French a service, in full protection: in fact, we have drafted a guide to the health precautions to be respected in the context of the delivery, which will be applied by all the platforms. This will ensure maximum health security for their employees and the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u67	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u68	Prime Minister, the world of work is on the front line. First of all, there are all those who carry out activities essential to the proper functioning of our country: we obviously think of all the caregivers, to whom the nation must express infinite gratitude. But there are also all the others: the auxiliaries of living with the elderly, those who live with the disabled on a daily basis, the police, the gendarmes, the fire department and the prison staff. They are tens of thousands of people doing admirable work, necessarily in contact with other people, without understanding why they can't have their children cared for, or why they don't have masks, hydro-alcoholic gels, or gloves. There are also all those who, both in private and in the public, allow us to continue to live as best we can. Teachers, civil servants, cashiers, delivery agents, postal workers: all are indispensable but also feel forgotten, because they also do not have protection. When their management puts them in danger, they must assert their right to withdraw, as at Amazon or General Electric in Belfort. There are also all these employees who are afraid of being laid off: Prime Minister, stop dismissals, at least during this period. Finally, there are those who wonder why they should go to work, at the risk of their health, in non-essential areas, such as the building, the production of mirrors – this is the case in the far east – or the manufacture of liners in Saint-Nazaire or trains in Valenciennes. In ports, workers demand that activities focus on what is strictly necessary. Without clear rules, non-essential companies continue to run. However, there cannot be total confinement on the one hand and on the other hand, of the employees forced to take the transport to go to work and to regroup in their company. Prime Minister, those who are on the front are often the same. What do you intend to do to protect them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u69	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u70	First of all, let me wish President André Chassaigne a speedy recovery. You are right: today, the heroes of everyday life have many professions, all of which allow the continuity of the goods and services essential to the daily life of all French people. Some would like us to draw up a list of essential trades, but that would be very complicated. Let's take an example: a company that manufactures packaging cartons stopped its business a few days ago. However, some of its cartons are used in the agri-food industry to pack the flour delivered to bakers, while others are used to pack the hydro-alcoholic gel packs delivered to hospitals. In the end, few activities can stop completely. This morning, the building federation of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region called for a halt to work throughout the building. But how will we do if no plumber can fix an urgent problem? Certain services must be provided. For me, the solution is not to define to scalpel what is allowed or not, but to work differently. There are solutions for that. The Minister of Economy and Finance and I are working on this day and day, especially with the retail brands: they have installed plexiglass protections for their cashiers, and make available hydro-alcoholic gel and gloves. I repeat, there are solutions. In the building, some companies have organized transports with several vehicles to prevent an entire team from moving in the same van. The construction sites are organized differently, with a morning team and an evening team, and the workers are always more than two metres from each other. This allows them to make urgent reparations, especially for elderly people who live alone. The solution is therefore not binary. I call on all companies to define, together with their trade unions and employees, the activities that must be maintained and the way in which the work must be organised to protect the staff. That is how we will facilitate the daily lives of the French, protect the employees and leave tomorrow with the necessary skills, when the crisis is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u71	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u72	It is difficult for us all to speak this morning, as our country faces a health crisis, but it is our responsibility as parliamentarians to accompany the Government. Today, I am speaking with two voices: I would like to associate my colleague Mickaël Nogal, who, together with the group La République en marche, works as a reference for the stakes of the Covid-19. We are disseminating information about this crisis to our colleagues in their constituencies, and we are at everyone's disposal. Above all, I would like to commend the public and private sector caregivers, who have been giving themselves unrelentingly for many days. Finally, I would like to express my greatest support to our colleagues who are directly or indirectly affected by the disease. My question is addressed to Mr Gabriel Attal, Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have announced various measures to support the economy and enterprises: carry forward of bank charges and maturities, suspension of rents and invoices, delay in the payment of taxes and social contributions for the smallest enterprises, generalisation of partial unemployment with State payment of 80 per cent or even 100 per cent for employees paid to the SMIC. Associations are also directly affected by the epidemic and the measures taken by the Government to protect the population. We must not forget that they represent 10% of GDP and 1.8 million jobs. They act daily with the most vulnerable people and are the foundation of solidarity – solidarity all the more essential and necessary in the period we are going through. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm to us that the associations will benefit from these measures, in the same way as the companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u73	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u74	As the Prime Minister has just pointed out, moments of crisis act as revealing. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the expressions of solidarity and the need for a link expressed by the French, whether they are expressed in applause from the balconies at 20 o'clock or in the desire to help and to be useful. We need associations for this, because they play a major social role. In the current context, social welfare and assistance to the poorest are not secondary to health care, but at least as important. We know that the first victims of health crises can be the most vulnerable. That is why, at the beginning of the week, Mr Jean-Michel Blanquer and I brought together the community networks to take stock. All measures to support enterprises announced by the Government are open to employers' associations: partial unemployment, tax and social charges, rents, electricity and gas bills. I invite associations that ask questions to consult the website associations.gouv.fr to obtain the necessary information and to identify the contacts they need to contact in order to assert their rights. At the same time, some associations today lack arms. One third of the regular volunteers at the Restos du coeur are over 70 years old and are confined to their home, being the most at risk of the epidemic. The French must therefore be mobilized. At the request of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, we will be calling in the next few hours to respond to the shortage of volunteers in certain sectors that are absolutely vital to many of our citizens. A platform will be created to connect associations with all those who can help them. I know you will mobilize to publicize this device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u75	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u76	Caregivers, whether requisitioned or not, make a considerable effort, 24 hours a day and seven days a week, to cope with the increasing influx of patients. This effort must be sustained and sustained. Within this framework, the Government has established a child care service for staff members who are essential to the management of the health crisis. However, some sectors face real difficulties in providing such a service 24 hours a day. Mr. Minister of National Education and Youth, could you take a look at the national representation at the deployment of this child care service? Are you considering additional measures, such as the requisition of certain personnel, to make it effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u77	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u78	Thank you for this question, which provides an opportunity to take stock of the actions carried out by my ministry. We have two essential tasks. On the one hand, we must provide distance education for more than 12 million students. Our 850,000 teachers are mobilized for this purpose, thanks to the "My Class at Home" device and other tools to keep in touch with the students. I would like to pay tribute to all the professors who are mobilizing in this context. We have encountered computer difficulties on Monday, but the situation is improving over time. On the other hand, we must welcome the children of the health care staff. As you said very well, all French people, a fortiori the public service, must support caregivers so that they carry out their missions without worrying about the care of their children. That is why we have set up a reception service throughout France. Most colleges and schools have remained open and offer a permanence of instruction to the children of caregivers, when they attest to their need to work. We welcomed 14,000 students Monday in this framework, then 28,000 on Tuesday; The device is therefore rising in power, and we expect to reach 30,000 to 40,000 students in a stable way. It was not necessary to make requisitions for this purpose, because volunteers – to whom I would like to pay tribute – spontaneously presented themselves to ensure this pedagogical permanence. We have a duty to provide them with good sanitary conditions, by equipping schools with soap and hydro-alcoholic gel and by imposing a distance of more than one metre between each – which is why groups never exceed ten students. We have to offer the same service on Wednesdays and weekends. Voluntary officials of national education are mobilized for this purpose, but also local government staff – we have agreed with the elected representatives in this direction – and associations. Through this mobilization, we will be able to provide care for the children of caregivers seven days a week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u79	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u80	Will this guard be provided 24 hours a day? Caregivers work day and night!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u81	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u82	It will be insured seven days a week, but not twenty-four hours a day. We will have to find other arrangements for night care, which cannot be organized in schools and colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u83	We have completed the questions to the Government. Before adjourning the meeting, I would like to thank the officials and all the staff of the National Assembly who are committed to enabling our work to take place. Thank you for leaving the Chamber in a phased manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1183.u84	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
