ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft organic law on time limits for the organization of parliamentary and senatorial elections (No. 3583, 3604) and the draft law on time limits for the organization of municipal by-elections and elections of members of trade union commissions (No. 3584, 3605). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a joint general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u2	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u3	The meeting was resumed. Madam Deputy Minister, I was taught during my training that being on time was already late. I think we would all accept your apology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u4	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u5	I did not imagine starting the examination of a technical text with a point of order, based on the article on the organization of the debates, which specifies that the presence on the bench of the minister is mandatory in the discussion of a piece of legislation. This government is made up of many ministers, perhaps more than ever, but there was not one this morning to be here on time. This is annoying, especially since the discussion concerns a text on the postponement of elections, i.e. a central subject for democracy. Madam Deputy Minister, you have given instructions to start without you! Where are we? To want the discussion of a law to begin without you, is to disregard the Constitution and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, is to disregard the fundamental rules of democracy! It's perfectly outrageous! Ten minutes late as we wait for you to start the discussion: the day starts badly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u6	Poor boy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u7	Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, you are asking for the floor; It is your right to present the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the floor, because I do not want to debate my six minutes late with the solemnity imposed by the rostrum – I have too much respect for this House. Madam President, your request was not necessary: I had of course planned to offer you my very humble apologies for this six-minute delay – which I hope will not seriously impede the continuation of the debate. The debate in the Senate ended this morning at two o'clock, and at dawn, one of my children was sick; So I had to set up his shift during the day to come here. These are things that happen, ministers are human beings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u9	Yes, it happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u10	[[Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur, and Erwan Balanant applaud]] I'm confused about this six-minute delay. I will make sure that this does not happen again, and I thank you for the good wishes you will not fail to address to my children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u11	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u12	Do you have children, Raphael? It can happen to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u13	You have the floor to introduce the texts, Madam Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u14	The circulation of the covid-19 accelerated again in October, leading the Government to establish a second containment from 30 October 2020, which we are developing, as you know. Health conditions can temporarily compromise the conduct of the elections, in particular the campaign that precedes them and is an essential moment in our democracy. However, the cancellations of elections, resignations and deaths of elected officials caused a vacancy of seats in the assemblies. These vacancies have triggered or are likely to trigger the organization of by-elections – this is the case for two legislative districts and some 60 municipal councils. The Electoral Code sets a three-month deadline for holding by-elections, but the health context makes it impossible to meet this deadline, especially when the organization involves the displacement of a large number of voters in an area of high virus circulation. That is why the Government is submitting to your House the organic and ordinary bills that we are considering today. The aim of the draft organic law is to allow, if the health situation so requires, the convening of partial parliamentary and senatorial elections beyond the three-month deadline. The purpose of the ordinary bill is to authorize the same postponement for municipal by-elections. These texts do not suspend by-elections, but only tend to derogate from organizational deadlines, where necessary. In any event, the elections will have to take place before July 2021. The planned or future by-elections will therefore be held as soon as possible, taking into account the health situation, as recommended by the Scientific Council. The Government will question the latter in order to establish the criteria for assessing whether the holding of elections is compatible with the protection of the population. In the health context we know, this temporary measure aims to adapt the democratic life of our country, without calling it into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u15	Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u16	Madam Chair, the Minister Delegate, the Chair of the Law Committee, my fellow Members – the division of roles is fairly broad, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u17	Women have all the responsibilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u18	You will see that this will work even better, Mr. Schellenberger! At its meeting on these bills, the commission wished to commend all the elected representatives who, despite the constraints and risks associated with the current epidemic, have adapted their practices to provide concrete responses to the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens. The democratic life of our country has thus remained alive, and we can congratulate ourselves collectively on this. However, this epidemic has also forced us to change our electoral calendar several times, so as to minimize the risk of the virus spreading during the campaign and the elections. In recent months, we have had to anticipate the postponement of the second round of municipal elections, consular elections, the renewal of the six French senators from abroad and possible by-elections of deputies representing the French established outside France. These postponement decisions were based on only one consideration: the best possible reconciliation between the principle of sincerity of the vote and that of the preservation of public health. All the political groups represented in Parliament were also vigilant about the modalities chosen. The duration of the proposed carry-overs has always been as short as possible in the light of the forecasts available to us. In this respect, the opinions of the Scientific Council have been useful in assessing the development of the health situation in France. Thanks to improved monitoring of the epidemic, we were able to make the necessary decisions in a timely manner. We also ensured that both candidates and voters were properly informed, both in terms of the dates of the elections and the manner in which they were conducted. Many accompanying measures for the candidates have been proposed, such as the development of online propaganda and the relaxation of the rules for the financing of the election campaign, which I thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for having agreed to renew the principle for the forthcoming by-elections. The health protocol applied at polling stations has been constantly strengthened. These measures have reassured the candidates, in particular the mayors, and all those present at the polling stations, in particular the assessors, who are indispensable for the proper conduct of the election, and therefore for the health of our democracy. We also encouraged voter participation in the election by facilitating the use of proxy power of attorneys, through the doubling of the number of proxy power of attorneys, which will be proposed again, and the possibility for judicial police officers – OPJ – to establish or withdraw at home the power of attorneys of those who could not travel. We are now facing a second massive wave of contamination; This situation justified the extension of the state of health emergency, declared by the Government on 17 October, until 16 February. More than 2 million cases of covid-19 have been identified and many departments remain vulnerable. In this context, we need to make new arrangements, similar to those adopted in the first wave, to shift the next election deadlines in order to ensure the same reliability and legitimacy of the results. The organization of by-elections within a maximum of three months is impossible in the current epidemiological context. As I pointed out in committee, two Members' seats are concerned; Ten appeals relating to senatorial elections are under consideration by the Constitutional Council, and sixty-three communes are due to hold a by-election in the near future. We therefore need to adopt the necessary provisions for their postponement. That is the purpose of the two bills introduced today. The single article of the Organic Bill provides for the possibility of deferring the holding of by-elections for MPs and senators beyond the three-month period provided for by the law in force. The organisation of the election would take place "as soon as the health situation permits", particularly in the light of the recommendations of the Scientific Council, and no later than Sunday, 13 June 2021. The ordinary bill contains similar provisions, in section 1, for by-elections relating to a seat of municipal councillor or district councillor and, in section 2, for elections of members of trade union commissions. These provisions seem to me to be proportionate to the purpose sought: the holding of these elections in conditions that ensure both voter participation and the limitation of the risk of spread of the virus. This is also the analysis of the Council of State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] I therefore invite you to pass these bills, as supplemented by the committee, and subject of course to a kind consideration of the amendments of the Government and your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u19	In the general debate, Mr Raphaël Schellenberger spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u20	This morning, I'm in doubt. We will discuss the postponement of by-elections to elect parliamentarians, municipal councillors, district councillors... No vote or almost any vote held during this quinquennium will have been spared by an adjustment legislation. And all of this while the sitting began this morning in unusual conditions to say the least, and the Deputy Minister dispatched her presentation of an organic bill and an ordinary bill in two minutes... Admittedly, it may be necessary to do so quickly; Of course, this text comes late and it is necessary to legislate quickly, since it will have its first effects on the sixth district of Pas-de-Calais next weekend. But these are not good reasons for tarnishing our work and stopping our interest in what is the very essence of democracy: election – and perhaps even more so when it comes to electing parliamentarians. Parliament makes the law and regulates freedoms, so restricted at the moment. We understand the problem of the health crisis and the difficulty of organising elections at this time. But be careful not to build incomprehensions, not to create divorce with certain maintained democratic events – so foreigners living in France have the opportunity to vote in their national consulates, and fortunately we cannot intervene in the electoral processes of other states. On the other hand, the rules gradually become more flexible and ordinary life resumes its rights: we can, at last, return to the local shops, and we can, I hope, quickly reopen these sites so important economically as ski resorts; We can soon go back to the theater, the museum, the cinema. As soon as these acts of everyday life become possible again, even with the barricades – O how important – it becomes difficult to explain that it is not possible to organize elections. I make the difference between the act of voting and the campaign. Going to a polling station, taking ballots, entering the voting booth, making a choice and sliding its envelope into the ballot box does not pose any health risks to our fellow citizens: the municipal elections have shown this. But the stakes are the electoral period, made up of meetings, exchanges, dialogues. That is why we agree to these derogations, which will allow by-elections to lag. Nevertheless, we will remain vigilant on several points. First of all, the question of the postponement of the by-elections comes at the same time as the postponement of the regional and departmental elections. The first – and the most serious – problem is that the text about this second postponement is not yet known; However, these elections are supposed to take place in March, the campaign is supposed to have started, in any case as far as campaign accounts are concerned. But we still don't know what the legislative vehicle will be used to shift them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u21	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u22	A little serious! You can't always handle everything in the rush; In this case, we had enough time to anticipate, and we are promised a text in January or February: it seems far too late to address this campaign calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u23	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u24	The second problem is that the dates we are hearing about could be the same: the by-elections can, according to the texts we are considering today, be postponed to 13 June 2021, when regional and departmental elections could also be held. Organizing two ballots on the same date is already difficult; Imagine that in some communes there could be three! This will be materially unmanageable, and it will be impossible to guarantee the sincerity of the elections. Voters won't be there. These are the elements that the Group of the European People's Party wishes to contribute to the debate. While these two texts are primarily technical, of course they call for the utmost attention of the Government and national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u25	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u26	I found it a little surprising that so many cases were made of six minutes late. It can, I believe, happen to everyone. We have to stop this kind of controversy that is only used to get rid of, these reminders to the rules that are only used to have his pretty little video that we can twitter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u27	Not you, not that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u28	The health crisis we are going through is far more serious than that. It has already led us to postpone municipal elections and the renewal of six French senators from abroad, in order to preserve the health of the French, but also the democratic vitality of our country. Postponing an election is never an easy decision, never taken lightly, because it concerns the heart of the democratic process. And the Constitutional Council considered that there was an imperative reason for the general interest. Today, the situation is different. In its opinion of 16 November last, the Council of State stressed that "the case of the by-elections aimed at [organic and ordinary] projects is based on a different mechanism: following, in most cases, a final termination of the elections or, more rarely, in the event of a vacancy of one or more seats for another reason, electoral operations allowing the appointment of new elected officials may be postponed beyond the legally prescribed period, even though the term of office concerned is no longer exercised by any elected official". When the situation so warrants, then the legislators we are may postpone a by-election, provided that the time limit remains reasonable. It is also essential to respect, with this criterion of necessity, a criterion of proportionality: the exceeding of the time limit which we shall adopt must be adapted to the situation which motivates it. As my colleague Isabelle Florennes said in the Law Committee, the date decided takes into account the recommendations of the Scientific Council; It is also the result of a compromise reached to meet the demands of the health crisis while ensuring the proper conduct of the elections and thus enabling our citizens to make their voices heard safely. It meets the constitutional objective of protecting public health: the worsening of the health situation prompted the restoration of the state of emergency until 16 February 2021, and containment measures since 30 October 2020. The second wave of covid-19 broke through our country more violently than the first; The President of the Republic has clearly explained this during his address on 24 November: we must continue to be vigilant and responsible in order to reach, in ten days, the bar of 5000 contaminations a day, and of 2500 to 3000 people in resuscitation. Only then can we move on to a new stage. But the pandemic will still not be over. Of course, a vaccination campaign is announced for the most vulnerable and then for the general public, but not everyone will be vaccinated right away. We must therefore continue to do everything possible to limit the spread of the virus, while allowing our democratic life to continue. Prosper Mérimée wore a ring inside which was engraved the following sentence: "Remember to be wary." This is the maxim that we must bear in mind: let us not let ourselves go to believe that the health beautification that seems to be emerging can exempt us from taking precautions, both in our daily life and in our democratic life. The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party obviously welcomes these two texts. We will vote on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u29	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u30	The health situation we have been experiencing for too long months has had an impact on our democratic life. In particular, it has imposed an adaptation of the work of our assembly – let us not forget that the Palais-Bourbon was the place of a home of covid-19 last March and that one of our colleagues died, alas, of the consequences of this disease; Let's have a thought for him. It also led to the postponement of the second round of municipal elections last June and will likely lead to the second round of departmental and regional elections next June. Although too many contaminations were found in the first round of the municipal elections on 15 March, our democracy cannot be put on hold for a long time. It is therefore appropriate to provide for the arrangements for the organization of the various by-elections, in the case of any legislative, senatorial or municipal elections. To date, the rapporteur has pointed out that two legislative districts are vacant – the sixth in Pas-de-Calais and the fifteenth in Paris – ten senatorial seats are affected by appeals and sixty-three communes are already in need of organising a partial municipal. The Socialist and Related Group obviously takes note of the two texts presented, which aim to guarantee the sincerity of the various elections while preserving public health. However, we are surprised by the double postponement of the election in the sixth constituency of Pas-de-Calais: the Government has either sinned for lack of anticipation or voluntarily allowed candidates to campaign on dates that it knew were obsolete. We welcome the adoption in committee of two of our amendments, which will allow an agent to carry, if necessary, two power of attorneys. However, other amendments from our group have been rejected. Convinced of their relevance, I will defend them again in a few minutes. In this way, I would suggest that we should have consultation with the political forces represented in Parliament before the partial municipalities, with the political groups of the Assembly before the partial legislatures and with the political groups of the Senate before any partial Senates. Indeed, the unilateral setting and modification of the dates of a ballot may always give rise to suspicions if they are not the subject of concerted action; I am convinced that the Government and the majority would benefit from involving parliamentary groups in their decisions. I will also plead for the prompt submission of a report on the possibility of increasing the ceiling on campaign spending by 20% when it extends over an unusual period of time. The delays in the sixth electoral district of Pas-de-Calais – the election was scheduled for 22 and 29 November, then 13 and 20 December – could penalize some candidates and raise the question of the computation of campaign expenses. In any event, I hope that the democratic vitality of our Republic will not be permanently affected by the consequences of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u31	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u32	Mr Schellenberger, I have taken note of your irritation, which is legitimate in some respects. Nevertheless, I invite you rightly to keep.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u33	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u34	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] I have taken note with equal consideration, Madam Deputy Minister, of your apology. As a loving husband and parent, I think you have been quite right to recall that we are individuals like others and that we have the same love for our children as our compatriots have for theirs. One may pretend not to understand that it would be difficult to conduct an electoral campaign under the current circumstances, but when the situation is analysed more closely, one realizes that these texts follow a series of provisions adopted in this area, including the postponement of the second round of municipal elections. The rapporteur recalled all the precautionary measures taken to ensure that our democratic life remains what it is – we are deeply committed to that. It can be assumed, unfortunately, that these bills will be followed by similar texts in the coming weeks: we will probably be led to postpone the departmental and regional elections, in accordance with the recommendations of the report submitted by Jean-Louis Debré. The single article of the Organic Bill provides that, by way of derogation from the three-month period provided for by the law in force, elections to fill a vacant seat of a Member or Senator shall be held "as soon as the health situation permits", under the supervision of the Scientific Council, and before the deadline of 13 June 2021. It is simply a matter of drawing the consequences of the health context that we all know. The bill deals with by-laws and the election of members of trade union commissions. Similarly, their dates will be determined in the light of the recommendations of the Scientific Council, the deadline being 13 June 2021. As has been said, these provisions relate to the seats of two MPs, ten senators and sixty-three municipal councils. These texts of coherence and coordination do not require specific comments. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party will approve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u35	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u36	The health crisis that we have been experiencing since the beginning of 2020 has changed our social life and tested our economic life. Of course, it also has consequences for our democratic life, both national and local. The vaccination campaigns in perspective may allow us to return to a more normal life. In any case, we will be able to adapt our operations to a more favourable health situation. The second wave of the epidemic has required adjustments in the functioning of our national and local institutions. This has obviously been the case in Parliament, since Parliament has organised itself to sit continuously, including at the height of the health crisis. This has also been the case in local institutions – communes, intercommunalities, departments, regions – that have implemented health protocols and decided on other ways of meeting in order to comply as much as possible with the rules of physical distancing and barrier actions. The aim was to prevent the spread of the virus while continuing to operate the institutions. We have already seen changes in our democratic life: the first round of the municipal elections of 2020 was organised under strengthened health conditions, then it was necessary to postpone the second round. The same prospect is now emerging for regional and departmental elections. Since democratic life is also made up of appointments, resignations, cancellations of elections and, unfortunately, deaths resulting in the vacancy of electoral mandates, both national and local, these bills provide for the possibility of postponement of by-elections. Some of them are already planned, while others may intervene in the event that elections, including municipal elections, are invalidated. There are at this stage two seats for deputies and sixty-three municipal councils. In addition, one or more senatorial seats will be affected by appeals filed in the wake of last September's elections. In the event of a vacancy for a member of Parliament or a municipal councillor, the law in force provides for the organization of the by-election within three months. However, the epidemiological context obliges us on the one hand to derogate from this deadline, on the other hand to anticipate the possibility of holding further by-elections. The harmonization of the various electoral calendars and the setting of a deadline of 13 June 2021 will ensure compliance with the provision that no by-election may take place within 12 months before the expiry of the powers of the National Assembly. However, I agree with Mr Schellenberger that if three elections were to be held at the same time in the same territory, it would make the technical arrangements for their organisation and the health conditions very difficult. The IDU and independent group welcomes all the measures submitted to us: they will make it possible to organise the campaigns and the elections in the best possible conditions. It also approved the provisions added to the rapporteur's initiative, which would allow an authorised representative to have two power of attorneys. This is an appropriate, common-sense measure that we proposed to the Prime Minister when we had before us the recommendations of the Debré report. On the other hand, we have alerted the Prime Minister to the dangers that we believe the mail-order vote has involved – a false, fashionable idea for the last few weeks. Our group also stressed the need to increase the ceiling for campaign spending by 20% and that it would be appropriate to allow candidates to sponsor content on social networks up to 20% of this ceiling. We have also requested that the National Commission for Campaign Accounts and Political Financing – CNCCFP – validate the accounts within two months of their submission, in order to avoid the problems that arise in the financing of campaigns, in particular during the presidential election, with repayments due less than a year after the approval of the accounts. Finally, we pointed out the need to minimize the difficulties faced by applicants when they wish to open a bank account or borrow. In this regard, we call for the creation of a public bank dedicated to the financing of political life, with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. We have tabled two amendments to set a minimum time limit for election campaigns, so that they take place in the best possible conditions. One of them was declared inadmissible. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. The IDU and independent group will vote on both bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u37	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u38	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] Voltaire wrote: "Discord is the greatest evil of mankind, and tolerance is the only remedy. I tell you in my capacity as father, Madam Deputy Minister, I would have done no better than you; I'd have been a lot more late, probably. Like our colleague from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats, I therefore call for tolerance. The health crisis that our country has been facing for several weeks and the risks to which it exposes our fellow citizens lead us to wonder about the holding of by-elections that could result from the vacancy of a seat as a Member of Parliament, a Senator, a municipal councillor or a member of a trade union commission. The purpose of the two draft laws, ordinary and organic, submitted by the Government is to provide for the modalities for their postponement. As a reminder, the Government has already been required to postpone the second round of municipal and consular elections, as well as the election of six French senators from abroad, in order to allow for the renewal of the consular advisers and delegates who make up their electoral college. The partial departmental elections which should have taken place during this second period of state of health emergency will be held within four months of its completion. The single section of the Organic Bill provides that the vacant seats of a Member of Parliament or Senator will result in the holding of a by-election beyond the three-month period after the determination of the vacancy provided for by the law in force. The election would take place as soon as the health situation permits, particularly in the light of the general recommendations on the conditions for holding elections, which the Government requests from the Scientific Council. In any event, except in exceptional circumstances, the by-elections would be held by Sunday, June 13, 2021, as the law provides that no one may be held less than one year before the end of the legislature. The ordinary bill contains provisions similar to those in the Organic Bill for by-elections relating to the seat of a municipal councillor or district councillor, as well as for the election of members of trade union commissions. The Liberties and Territories Group supports these adjustment measures, which will enable our citizens to reconcile the exercise of democratic life with respect for health regulations. Indeed, it would not be desirable for our democracy to organise elections and, above all, to campaign under the conditions that we currently have. Thus the provision – which has just been mentioned – opening up the possibility for an elector to hold two power of attorneys for these elections seems to us to be welcome. It has already been applied in the last two postponed elections and is gradually taking root in the minds. We would also like it to be sustainable. In this regard, I would point out that it would be wise to relieve the gendarmerie and police forces, which have other cats to whip, of the heavy burden of registering power of attorneys. In any event, it would seem difficult to go back to this practice that promotes electoral participation. Given the abstention rates we have in our country, our citizens would not understand such a reversal. In the light of these two bills, we believe that two other elements should be kept in mind. The first relates to one of the two seats of deputy concerned by a by-election, that of the sixth electoral district of Pas-de-Calais, which Brigitte Bourguignon occupied before joining the Government. This seat is vacant because Mrs Bourguignon's alternate has waived it in order to retain her mandate as mayor. This is a direct consequence of the organic and ordinary laws of 14 February 2014 prohibiting the cumulation of a local executive and parliamentary mandate. The municipality of which this deputy is mayor is nevertheless populated by only 4400 inhabitants. The National Assembly is once again deprived of the experience of a local elected official, as it has been on many occasions since 2017. The Liberties and Territories Group regrets that. As far as I am concerned, I believe that a local executive mandate, at least in a locality of less than 10000 or less than 5000 inhabitants, is fully compatible with the mandate of a parliamentarian. Such a combination would even seem to me to be beneficial to the construction of the law and to the control of the Government. We should therefore go back to the margin on these laws and I am counting on you, Madam Minister Delegate. The second element to be remembered concerns the Debré committee, which is responsible for laying the groundwork for the postponement of departmental and regional elections, which we believe is a good way to coordinate political parties and parliamentary groups. We believe that this method should be used again to set the date for future by-elections. It is a matter of trust between the Government, Parliament and citizens in the impartial conduct of the elections. For the time being, only the Government has the power to decide on that date, on the advice of the Scientific Council. It will therefore be necessary for you to organise a wide-ranging consultation to avoid suspicions. As we look at these texts, it is still sixty-three municipal by-elections, two by-elections and ten by-elections. The Liberties and Territories Group will vote on these two adjustment bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u39	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u40	These texts aim to adapt the modalities of the by-elections during the period of health crisis. As with the postponement of the Senate election of the French abroad, it is a matter of taking into account, in the organisation of the elections, the material possibilities of electoral campaigning. Indeed, the disaster of the first round of municipal elections on the eve of confinement is a good example of what should not be done. Disconnected from the national electoral context, which informs citizens of the holding of an election and, above all, of its issues, by-elections usually involve little participation. In the last by-elections, which took place during the period of covid-19, we were able to see the abyss in which participation fell. Indeed, it is all the more complicated to campaign because it is difficult to invite citizens to public debates. And it is also made more difficult to make its program known to citizens who do not use digital tools when they cannot physically meet them. Digital campaigning tends to exclude entire sections of the population from active participation in elections, and this seems to us to be a democratic problem. In time of covid-19, campaigns also tend to favour the richest candidates. Wearing folds in people's homes is very expensive and is not within the reach of a candidate who does not have a strong financial contribution. It is true that rich candidates are, in any case, favoured in an election, but at least those candidates with little means can, in normal times, try to compensate for this disadvantage by low-cost actions that directly affect citizens. It therefore seems reasonable to postpone the by-elections at a time when it is possible to organize a genuine political campaign materially. As an election is not just a vote, it also covers the whole process of citizens' conviction, of debate around political programmes. It is therefore essential to organise these elections at a time when all the conditions are met. It is questionable, however, that once again the Government alone decides when the health conditions are in place to conduct an electoral campaign. Of course, it is assisted by the Scientific Council, but this does not provide sufficient democratic guarantees. The arbitrariness does not help and raises the suspicion that the Government could arrange for health conditions. It should be noted, however, that all the by-elections were disconcerting for the majority. Will the Government therefore be tempted to use its power to set the election date for electoral purposes? In any event, it is better to remove the possibility and suspicion. I repeat, decisions must be taken democratically and consultation with political groups is necessary to rule out a suspicion of electoral opportunism in the choice to postpone or maintain an election. Finally, I would like to highlight the difficulties that might arise from April 2021. Indeed, from that date onwards, the campaign accounts for the presidential election of 2022 will be opened. Let us assume: what happens if a candidate or candidate in a by-election – legislative, regional or departmental – then decides to run for the presidential election? The campaign expenses incurred during the by-election should undoubtedly be borne, in part, by the presidential campaign, since, for example, a major meeting not only contributes to the reputation of a candidate in the by-election, but also to the dissemination of his presidential programme. What should be done? Will the CNCCFP accuse the presidential campaign's accounts of being insinuated? Or will the accounts of the by-election have to be reopened a posteriori to remove the sums that were actually to be charged to the presidential campaign account? It is necessary to be very clear on this point, so as to prevent situations which, for the time being, are fictional, but which could very well happen. Let us conclude that if we are there, it is because the Government has so far been unable to deal with the health crisis. The report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which speaks of improvisation, delays, opacity, lies, or opportunism, is instructive. Democracy was severely damaged during this period. The confidence of the people in their political institutions, whose level was already not very high, is at the lowest. The people are in cold anger. And trust will not be restored by incantations or vain promises. It will only be done by the certainty that the people are truly sovereign and that the decisions they take in genuine elections are being implemented. None of these conditions are currently met. It is therefore particularly urgent for democracy to establish a Constituent Assembly for a Sixth Republic; It is the presidential election of 2022 that will allow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u41	And even a 7th Republic if you can avoid the 6th!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u42	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u43	The health crisis that we are experiencing has created a great deal of uncertainty in the lives of our fellow citizens. These uncertainties concern their health, their daily lives, the exercise of their professional activity, the schooling of their children, but also our ability to preserve both our art of living and our fundamental rights. This sum of uncertainties is, of course, a source of anxiety, but if we do not take care of it, it could also be a source of caution, if not mistrust of our democratic institutions. The considerable abstention we experienced in the first round of the last municipal elections, before it worsened in the second, is a disturbing manifestation of this loss of confidence. It certainly comes from afar, but the health crisis has amplified it. It is a sign of a genuine democratic malaise, which unfortunately did not strengthen the communal institution at a time when, everywhere in France, it was working alongside other public services in the face of the pandemic. While our compatriots are now being re-established and could be re-established in the future if the need were to force us to do so, re-establishing visibility on the electoral calendar, that is, on our democratic life, is a first step towards restoring this indispensable confidence. This is the first step that the bills we are looking at jointly propose to take, and we can only agree with it. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote for these texts, but I would like to take this opportunity to make a few additional comments and suggestions that could inspire us, some of which are emanating from the report by Jean-Louis Debré on the holding of the next departmental and regional elections. It seems to me that these proposals would help to strengthen citizen involvement and encourage greater electoral participation. First of all, I am thinking of the shortening of the deadline between the deadline for voter registration and the first round of the election, which is a measure of common sense. I am also thinking of the possibility of facilitating the use of proxy voting by increasing the authorized number of proxy votes per proxy, but also by offering the possibility for persons with factors of vulnerability to covid-19 to ask the competent authorities to travel to establish them. On the other hand, we are opposed to any introduction of mail-order or internet voting – this is not proposed, but is under discussion. We believe that it would create situations of insinuity in the vote or create community pressure on voters. Finally, I would like to point out that voting is only the result of a democratic process, i.e. an electoral campaign to gather and circulate world views, projects and, finally, proposals. As legitimate as they are, health restrictions can undermine the normal conduct of a campaign as close as possible to the people, and we would be well advised to try to facilitate the democratic debate by any other means. The increase in the ceiling on propaganda spending, allowing for the dissemination of more information to citizens, and the deployment of digital tools for interaction with them, would seem to us, from this point of view, excellent ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u44	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u45	In the context of the health crisis we are experiencing, these texts appear to be necessary, almost technical, adjustment measures, in order to be able to organise campaigns and elections in the best possible way. The draft organic law concerns the parliamentary and senatorial by-elections and the ordinary draft law, the municipal by-elections and the elections of the trade union commissions. The dates chosen are based on the report by Jean-Louis Debré, whose conclusions will be the subject of a specific bill that we will consider in January, following its submission to the Council of State. It should be noted in this regard that we must take into account that no by-election can take place less than one year before the General Renewal of the National Assembly. On the other hand, the La République en marche group wishes to highlight the progress made with regard to power of attorneys – this has been recalled – and the necessary adaptation of campaign accounts. We are very much in favour of these two measures. That is why we will of course vote on these two texts which concern the organisation of our democracy in this particularly serious and delicate period of crisis. In conclusion, I believe that before we take stock of the health crisis, we must wait for it to be behind us. We still have major steps to take: our country, like Europe and the world, is still facing formidable challenges. I repeat, we will take stock when we come out of this difficult moment, which has already required many adaptation measures – that we complete this morning with these new provisions. In this regard, I would like to commend the work done by the previous and the current Governments to take us as far as possible on the delicate path of ending a health crisis of this importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u46	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u47	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the organic bill on the timing of parliamentary and senatorial elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u48	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u49	For the past six months, the citizens of the sixth district of Pas-de-Calais have no longer been represented in the National Assembly. For the past six months, no Member of Parliament has been able to defend the communes of this neighbouring constituency of mine, to relay the demands of local elected representatives or to express the expectations of this rural territory in the midst of a health crisis. This situation is unique in France and results from the mere inconsequence of the majority: a Member of Parliament who has become a minister, an alternate stating that she does not want to sit, the neo-Minister learning of this refusal by the press and the neo-MP taking three months to resign... This tragi-comédie lasted long enough and the inhabitants of the sixth electoral district of Pas-de-Calais must finally have a representative. There is a risk that this already twice-rejected election will never be held and it will become a reality if voters are not called to the polls by mid-June. How will you explain the postponement of the departmental and regional elections from March to June and, at the same time, the scheduling of a by-election before June? The shooting window is very small and candidates will only have a few days to campaign in satisfactory sanitary conditions. There is a real risk of a breach of democratic equality, as a minister will be a candidate in the election, and it would not be tolerable that the election dates chosen by the Government will not be known to all, candidates as well as voters, at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u50	The dice are punctuated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u51	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u52	Similarly, it would be unbearable if, during the campaign freeze, a candidate could, alone, campaign as part of her ministerial duties, in a mix of unwelcome genders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u53	And with the means of the state!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u54	... while others would be prohibited from meeting with the elected and the inhabitants of the territory. Be assured, Madam Deputy Minister, of our full vigilance on this matter. We ask you, on the one hand, to ensure that democratic equality is respected and, on the other hand, to do everything possible to hold a by-election that cannot be frozen any longer. To repeat the expression of the President of the Republic, everyone must take his risk, even if it means the loss of his maroquin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u55	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u56	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u57	I wanted to go back to one of the points I raised in the general discussion. The objective of the two bills is to overwhelm the usual three-month deadline for the organization of by-elections, which we fully understand in light of the uncertainties surrounding the changing health conditions. Nevertheless, I stress the importance of keeping a minimum limit, both to ensure equality between candidates by enabling them to campaign in good conditions and to ensure that our fellow citizens are properly informed about the electoral campaign itself. Article L. 47 A of the Electoral Code, which usually applies, sets the duration of the official campaign at 15 days, and an unwritten case law requires that a prefect, when in charge of organizing a municipal by-election within a maximum of three months, never fix the election within a period of less than one month, thus allowing future candidates to organize their electoral campaign and citizens to assimilate the fact that a by-election will be held. If it is not possible to include it in the law, I would like at least to receive assurances from the Government, as my colleague Dumont requested, that sufficient time will be respected between the announcement of the organization of a by-election and the holding of the ballot, so that equality between candidates can be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u58	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1 and 2, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u59	Amendment No 1 is a precise amendment. To the extent that a by-election is held on the seventh Sunday following the publication of the convocation order, any member's seat becoming vacant after Friday, April 30, 2021 would remain vacant until the next general renewal of the National Assembly. The amendment seeks to clarify this deadline in the single article. Amendment No 2 is intended to provide for consultation of the presidents of the political groups of the National Assembly for the organisation of the by-elections. In its current wording, paragraph 1 refers only to the general recommendations that the Government requests the Committee of Scientists to formulate on the conditions for holding partial elections. It's not enough for us. We do not question the recommendations of the Scientific Council; What we are concerned about is the Government's interpretation of it. We remember the history of the masks: I think the Scientific Council had seen it right, but the interpretation of its recommendations was very bad, since we were told that the masks were useless. We have doubts, and we want the decision to be shared. The best way to share it is through the participation of the political groups of the National Assembly, which should be consulted on the date. Amendment No 3 is intended, in the same spirit, to provide for the consultation of the group presidents for the organisation of the by-elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u61	Mr David, I will give you two answers: one on the first amendment, the other on the next two, since they deal with the same problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u62	With regard to the deadline, as I have already indicated in committee, I understand your willingness to secure the framework, but the clarification is not necessary in the law, because the date is easily deduced from the impossibility that you recalled of holding by-elections during the year preceding the renewal of the National Assembly. I would also like us to take into account something that the Council of State has told us – it is true that this is a rather exceptional case but, in the epidemiological situation, everything can change from one day to the next: "If, in the near future, it appears that the health situation does not allow all necessary by-elections to be held, it would be up to the legislator to define new arrangements for their holding, possibly derogating from the provisions that exclude by-elections less than a year before the general elections. We are far from it, and I hope we will not get there, but at this stage I prefer to stick to the current wording of the article, which leaves some flexibility – and we have seen for almost a year now that flexibility is absolutely necessary to keep up with developments in the health situation. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice. With regard to the other two amendments on the consultation of political groups, the holding of a ballot, the periodicity of which is provided for by law, can only be postponed for compelling reasons of general interest, in this case because of the epidemic of covid-19. It is therefore not a question of political opportunism and I do not want us to formalise the exchanges with the groups, especially since the text, ad hoc, applies only to the case of the partial parliamentary and municipal elections. As I said in committee, the political groups have always been involved in the reflection when it was necessary to change the date of a vote. If it were to be made an absolute and lasting rule, it would be better if it were in another text than it was. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendments, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u64	Like the rapporteur, I will first speak on Amendment No 1, then on Amendments Nos 2 and 3. On the first amendment, I would point out that the general scheme of the proposed provisions, including the dates mentioned, is intended to regulate in time the derogation from the three-month time limit imposed by the electoral code for the holding of partial parliamentary or senatorial elections – a derogation that the legislator wishes to allow in the current epidemic context. For reasons of intelligibility and, above all, efficiency of the standard, we believe that the text should not focus on specifying other dates from which the determination would derive from the direct application of the provisions of the ordinary law provided for in the electoral code. As you mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, a minimum period of six weeks must separate the election from the election itself, in accordance with article L. 173 of the Electoral Code. At the same time, section LO 178 of the same Code states that it is no longer possible to hold a by-election in the year preceding the expiry of the Assembly's powers. Therefore, any seat that would become vacant after 30 April 2021 will remain vacant until the parliamentary elections of May 2022 without it being necessary to provide for it in the law. Unfavorable opinion. Amendments Nos. 2 and 3 are intended to make compulsory the consultation of representatives of political groups, but the convening of elections under the conditions laid down by law is a matter for the Government. The Electoral Code provides that by-elections must be held within three months of the vacancy, and the purpose of the bill we are debating this morning is to provide an opportunity to extend this deadline if the health conditions so require. The organisation of the elections will be decided in the light of the recommendations of the Scientific Committee; Since the subject is purely health-related, it does not, in our view, call for any consultation other than that already mentioned. However, as you know, prefects systematically consult local actors upstream on the dates for the by-elections. A consultation is therefore planned and will be organised at territorial level by the Prefects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u65	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u66	Other Members have asked for the floor, but I am already indicating that I am maintaining the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u67	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u68	We will support these amendments because, in this exceptional situation, there must be no suspicion about the use that the Government could make of its ability to set election dates. As you say yourself, the political groups are already consulted; So let us put it in the law, it will reassure everyone and democracy will do better. If the Government does not have the will to exceed its power, it must include it in the law. Furthermore, on the first amendment concerning the deadline for elections, I would like the rapporteur to certify that the current wording of the text – without the addition of the Socialist amendment – ensures that no legislative or by-elections will take place in the year preceding the general elections of 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u69	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u70	This is the law in force; So it's guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u71	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u72	It is intended to delete paragraphs 2 and 3, in coordination with the introduction in the ordinary bill of a mechanism allowing two proxy per proxy for all by-elections held until 13 June, including the legislatures and senators covered by this organic bill. It was an almost unanimous request of the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u73	Amendment No 3 by Mr Alain David has already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u74	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 9 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u75	It extends the deadline for the organization of by-elections to the local assemblies of the overseas communities of Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Martin, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna and French Polynesia. These by-elections, such as partial municipal elections, can be held until June 13, 2021. Again, they will take place as soon as the local health situation permits. Since none of these assemblies are currently affected by the holding of by-elections, the aim of the amendment is simply to prevent difficulties in the event of a deterioration of the local health situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u77	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u78	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u79	On the substance, of course, it is necessary to include all the territories of the French Republic, including the overseas territories. The problem is in shape. I understand that this is an emergency text, but it lasts for seven or eight months! While the text should be purely technical, you are presenting amendments which rewrite important provisions. Such texts should be prepared with a little work, a little serious. Now here, at the last moment, you add to the va-vite Wallis-et-Futuna and Polynesia, after forgetting them! We are not necessarily in the right circumstances to address the issue of the postponement of regional and departmental elections calmly, in a comprehensive manner. All this for elections that were to take place in a few weeks! It's very unserious, for an election text, I say it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u80	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u81	The Liberties and Territories Group will naturally vote in favour of the amendment. We are very committed to territorial differentiation, which applies to French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna, but also to the constitutional principle of unity and indivisibility of France. The electoral code must therefore be adapted throughout the country. Nevertheless, we regret the rejection of the amendments by our colleague Alain David. To include in the law that political groups must be consulted, it does not eat bread, as they say at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u82	I put to the vote the single clause in the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u83	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the draft law on the timing of municipal by-elections and elections of members of trade union commissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u84	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u85	This amendment extends the time limit for the organization of municipal by-elections to the municipalities of New Caledonia. It is logical and even necessary to foresee the postponement of these elections until 13 June 2021, if the local health situation does not allow them to be held. However, these municipalities are governed by specific provisions of the Electoral Code, which must be expressly derogated from. This amendment therefore supplements the list of derogations by adding the reference to articles L._436 of the Electoral Code and L. 122-5 of the Code of Municipalities of New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u86	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u87	It aims to provide for consultation with representatives of the political forces present in Parliament for the organization of municipal by-elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u89	We have already discussed similar amendments to the organic law. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u90	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u91	It's an appeal amendment. We expect a response and commitments from the Government regarding the minimum time frame for holding by-elections. We fully understand the upper limit chosen in derogation from the usual three months. In order to ensure equality between all candidates and the good information of our citizens, a minimum deadline must also be set. This amendment to Article L. 47 A of the Electoral Code sets the duration of the official campaign at 15 days. However, I would like you to commit yourself to at least one month, in accordance with a form of unwritten jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u93	The article L. 47 A of the electoral code is already applied in all its rigour, guaranteeing the 15-day period that you mentioned. Since the amendment is satisfied, I ask you to withdraw it; Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u95	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u96	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u97	The amendment does not concern the Organic Law on the Election of Senators. I have asked the Government to commit itself to a minimum organizational period of one month. I await your response, Madam Minister, before I withdraw my amendment, if any.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u98	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u99	The amendment seems to me to be of common sense: equality must be guaranteed between the candidates, by allowing everyone to know the dates and modalities of the election, in order to have time to campaign. The election in Pas-de-Calais has already been postponed twice, which has led to perfectly abnormal situations. After presenting their profession of faith and ballot to the propaganda commission last Tuesday, ten days ago, putative candidates received an e-mail from the prefecture the next morning announcing the postponement of the election. The inorganization is total! It is necessary to secure republican equality and to allow as much time as possible for candidates to campaign and voters to become acquainted with it in the legislative constituencies and municipalities concerned by by by-elections – they are not necessarily aware of it since, by definition, the campaign is not national.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u100	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u101	Mr.Brindeau, I did not reply to you because it seemed to me that it was self-evident that the manner in which the election was organized was not affected by this bill. The warning period you have mentioned will therefore be well respected; I commit myself on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u102	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u103	In view of the Government's commitments, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u104	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u105	In coordination with the Organic Bill, it will allow an agent to have two power of attorneys.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u106	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8 of the Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u107	It is also a coordination amendment. This will ensure that an agent receives two power of attorneys.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u108	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No 6, which creates an additional article after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u109	If the health conditions do not allow by-elections to be organised within the ordinary time limits, namely three months, with the exception of those of the District Councils, for which the time limit is two months, this amendment provides that the expenditure ceilings will be increased by 5 % per month, in order to take account of the extension of the duration of the campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u111	Madam Deputy Minister, thank you very much for this amendment. All law commissioners questioned this point. It is a democratic imperative to increase the ceiling on campaign accounts from the moment when it is extended, since it is costly. I also thank you for having responded to our request so quickly. If the measure is entirely appropriate for the by-elections held this year, perhaps we will have to reflect later on another law, which would not be ad hoc, since it might be necessary to make it a definitive rule. In any case, in the present circumstances, the amendment sends a very positive signal, both for the candidates and for our democracy in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u112	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u113	Such an amendment could only be tabled by the Government, since the rules on financial admissibility prohibited Members of Parliament from tabling amendments whose adoption would increase the expenditure of the State. In general, for a by-election, the spending limit is not met. This is calculated for general elections with a sufficiently early date, and taking into account the fact that the campaign will last six months, whereas it is rarely the case for partial legislative campaigns, which are often much faster, more unforeseen, with less expenditure. However, the case of these partial laws is special – I am thinking in particular of those of Paris and Pas-de-Calais, which could have been anticipated long in advance. In Pas-de-Calais, the propaganda commission, which aims to validate the official communication, was even held, before a postponement was decided. As a result, significant costs have already been incurred. In addition, a deputy minister is a candidate, and will continue to campaign by going to the riding with the means of the state. Departmental travel has increased in Calais over the last few days – we must consider this point when we know that a by-election will soon take place. Candidates must have the means to make their voices heard in the face of the government machine, whose power will be concentrated in a few very few constituencies. However, a 5% increase, reduced to a pro rata temporis, is three times less than would be required.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u114	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u115	I would like to add to what Mr Schellenberger has just said: the circumstances are special, the campaigns have started and the candidates have already incurred costs. We were not able to table any amendments or sub-amendments – my proposal to raise the ceiling to 10% was declared inadmissible. The ceiling of 5 per cent is below actual requirements, although expenditure ceilings are generally not met, especially for parliamentary elections. Nevertheless, account must be taken of the very exceptional circumstances surrounding the two by-elections in question, the campaigns of which have already begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u116	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u117	We proposed to increase the spending limits by 20%. The Government proposes 5 per cent per month. What happens if the period is less than four months? There are fixed costs in a campaign, which must be taken into account. I fear that an increase of 5% per month for less than four months will prove insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u118	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u119	[[Smile]] When it comes to money, Bourguignon I am, Bourguignon I stay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u120	Even the members of the assembly are requisitioned to campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u121	I'm Bourguignon and I'm proud of it! And the gold sheet camp won't change anything. A floor should be provided, which could be set at 10 per cent. Indeed, a by-election requires, contrary to what is thought, more communication efforts, because the national relays are absent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u122	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u123	This is a local campaign, in which more costs are incurred, if only to make the electorate aware of the holding of the election. [[MM. Stéphane Peu and Alain David laugh]] For the rest, don't worry, the rules are very well known in France, in Pas-de-Calais and elsewhere. I had a time when the UMP – Union for a Popular Movement – was doing helicopter campaigns, but it was another time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u124	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u125	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u126	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u127	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to reform adoption (No. 3161, 3590).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u128	On Wednesday evening, the Assembly continued its consideration of the articles, concluding with amendment No 172 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u129	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u130	On the basis of the article on the smooth running of our debates, I regret the conditions for the examination of the text: we started the discussion on Wednesday late in the afternoon, and then the evening session opened on the consideration of the draft law on the allocation of seats for councillors in the French Guiana Assembly between the electoral sections, which left us only two hours to resume the discussion of the text on the reform of the adoption. Yesterday's sessions were devoted to the niche of the Republicans group and this morning's session began with the examination of two texts and began later than expected, because of the delay of a member of the Government. We are only now resuming the discussion of the text on the reform of adoption. I regret the sausageing of the examination of this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u131	It is the reminders to the Rules of Procedure that are salucissoning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u132	... while the great importance of the subject requires continuity in the discussions. This text is a proposal for a law and has therefore not been the subject of an impact assessment or an opinion of the Council of State. In addition, its review is carried out in accordance with the accelerated procedure, which will prevent us from refining its drafting. I repeat: I regret the conditions for consideration of this bill, which deals with adoption, a subject that is so important and so sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u133	I have before me two amendments, Nos 172 and 62, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 172.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u134	This amendment by my colleague Fabien Di Fillipo aims to preserve the best interests of the child, by not opening adoption to couples living in cohabitation. If only the interests of the child prevail, as you seem to want to display, it is better to offer the child as many guarantees and protections as possible. However, the end of a cohabitation does not impose specific obligations on parents or guarantee specific rights for the child. Conjugalization is the weakest legal framework for ensuring the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u135	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u136	Adoption is an extremely delicate process and, as we have repeatedly stated, it is appropriate to respect the best interests of the child and to have only the child in mind. With this in mind, the child must be accommodated in a family and legal structure as stable as possible, in order to provide him with the best possible development and development. Marriage offers legal security that neither the PACS – a civil pact of solidarity – nor the concubinage provide. Let us be clear, it is not a matter of moral appreciation of marriage. The personal qualities of the adopters are not called into question, but their legal status is not indifferent to adoption. The legal content of the marriage gives the child more guarantees than the cohabitation or the PACS of his parents. Indeed, the commitment to marriage and the procedure through which it is dissolved, namely divorce, are guarantees of security for the child. The breach of the contract between the spouses involves judicial proceedings or divorce without a judge; In the latter case, the parents must be assisted by a lawyer, who guarantees not only that the interests of the spouses are taken into account, but also that of the children. Parents are at least informed of their rights and duties towards children. A separation of unmarried parents may take place without the intervention of a judge or a lawyer, thus without any guarantee that the separation arrangements respect the rights of the child, as well as his or her interests, beginning with the maintenance of ties with his or her two parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u137	Mrs Monique Limon, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u138	The opinion is, of course, unfavourable on these two amendments, which provide for adoption to be reserved for married or pampered couples. On the contrary, it is necessary to modernise the rules of adoption in order to take account of changes in society. More and more of our fellow citizens favour cohabitation and more and more children are born out of wedlock. Therefore, why deny a couple, who prefer to live together for some reason, the right to adopt, if that can satisfy the child's interests? The quality of the parents and the stability of the couple, it seems to me, go beyond marital status alone. In considering other amendments, we were able to see that the interests of the child were respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u139	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u140	We have already had this debate on Wednesday when we discussed the deletion amendments. The two amendments are intended to revert to article 2, which the Government supports, on behalf of the commitments made under the Bioethics Act, in the name of equality between parents and above all, in the interests of the child. By opening adoption to unmarried couples, we strengthen the rights and safety of the child, especially if a tragedy occurs in the couple once the child is adopted. For all these reasons, the Government expresses a negative opinion on these amendments, as well as on the following which pursue the same objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u141	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u142	Since the beginning of the examination of this text, I wonder: why are you so attached to the expression "the best interests of the child"? I myself have tabled amendments on this subject. I have just understood that this is your vector to say that an adoption by a couple neither married nor pacsé would not be in the best interests of the child. But the best interests of the child are simply to be loved by both parents. Sometimes parents divorce; by going to the end of your logic, one might think that the divorce is not in the best interests of the child either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u143	We said the opposite Wednesday night!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u144	Mrs Ménard, your argument is more interesting: it is based more on law and less on morality. Let's talk about the best interests of the child that a couple wants to adopt in cohabitation. The current solution is not to declare cohabitation and to proceed with adoption by only one of the parents. But in the case of separation, the child will have no protection and incomplete filiation; The adoptive parent will have all the rights over him and the other parent – a kind of virtual parent – will have none.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u145	It's all in the interest of marriage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u146	No! It is in the interests of the bill to ensure safe adoption for children and for parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u147	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u148	I followed the debates very carefully on Wednesday night. Far from being finished, they are just beginning, since we are only in paragraph 3 of section 2. Adoption needed to be reformed and, in that regard, it was regrettable that the text had stalemated intercountry adoption. Secretary of State, I know your commitment to child protection, which I have seen on the ground. Everyone is free to marry, pacify or live together; I deeply respect these choices. But the question of the best interests of the child does not arise on the part of the applicants for adoption, it arises on the part of the child. I wonder, without calling into question the diversity of marital situations: what is the most protective legal framework for children? We are not here to talk about love, but to elaborate the law. The question asked is not on the ground of love – I hope there is love in all these situations, fortunately – but on the ground of law; It does not apply to applicants for adoption, but to adopted children. On the other hand, they are not unborn children, but children already born, who have rights and who have experienced dramatic situations – as those who know well about adoption cases know. These children have experienced abandonments, which create fragility. We need to take as little risk as possible and provide them with the best possible framework. That is my wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u149	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u150	Forgive me for calling your attention sometimes vigorously, Madam President, but I feel like I'm alone in my corner and not always looking at me. I listened well to your arguments; Madam rapporteur, you are talking about the necessary adaptation to modernity, because situations are changing. I agree with this last point: lifestyles are changing. But modernity doesn't matter! We are not talking about modernity or the way of life of parents, but about the situation and the best interests of children. The consequences of a separation differ according to the status of the couple: for a married couple, a separation involves a divorce, with the intervention of a judge or at least one lawyer; This is not the case for a couple who are pached or living in cohabitation. Now – an example to illustrate my point – in the event of divorce, the compensatory benefit protects each spouse, especially the one who devotes himself to the upbringing of the child, in order to avoid a financial precariousness that would put the child himself in difficulty. This does not exist in the context of a PACS or a cohabitation; Where is the best interests of the child then? Priority should be given to the situation in which it is best protected. That is why we insist so much on the importance of marriage; It's not a question of morality! It is preferable for a child to be adopted by a married couple rather than by a pacsé couple or a cohabitation couple, simply because the marriage provides them with more security. That's what we care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u151	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u152	I would like to add an argument to those of the rapporteur and Erwan Balanant: we must trust the social workers, who follow the requests of future parents for several years. The decision is collegial, mature and thoughtful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u153	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u154	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u155	I am not on the ground of modernity or morals. Mr Bazin, you are raising good questions, but you do not want to admit that this bill provides answers – I think you know that in your heart. This provision is included in article 2 because it is more protective for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u157	Mr Breton, we are not going to impose marriage on everyone, nor are we going to go back to single adoption, unless that is your wish. In fact, the only option available to couples who are pacs or who live in cohabitation is adoption by one of the two members. This offers a child a loving and stable family, even if the parents are not married; It is this objective that drives us. But if a tragedy, or separation, occurs, the rights and best interests of the child are threatened. By giving unmarried couples the opportunity to adopt, by guaranteeing filiation to both members of the couple, the rights of the child are strengthened. You're asking the right questions, Mr. Bazin; Article 2 responds. I have no doubt that you will vote against the amendments, unless they are withdrawn, because we finally agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u158	Amendment No 50 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u159	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u161	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u162	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u163	I take advantage of the amendment to launch an exchange on the conception of filiation. Is it based on the will and desire of adults alone? Should other dimensions be taken into account? The filiation is based on several pillars. A body pillar first: reproduction involves mating, pregnancy and childbirth; a second emotional and educational pillar; Finally, a social pillar, i.e. the recognition of the child and the status of the family in society. In some situations, one of the pillars is missing: the body pillar, which pushes some to adopt; the educational pillar, when parents do not have the material or psychological capacity to raise their children. Adoption mechanisms make it possible to remedy these situations; The other pillars are then more demanding. Thus, in the absence of the body pillar, educational and social pillars will be more needed; In the absence of the emotional and educational pillar, the social pillar must also be stronger. To do so, law and marital status are important. In this regard, citizens are equal: everyone is free to marry, to pacse or to live together without discrimination. But in the cases mentioned, in which children suffer, we need to strengthen the social pillar – it is the child psychiatrists who say so. Following this logic, we say that marriage is the most protective status and that the ACAP is more protective than cohabitation. This is our conception of filiation; Yours is based solely on the love and desire of adults. That is what differentiates us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u164	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u165	I hear Mr. Xavier Breton's concerns. In the Civil Code, filiation falls under Titles VII and VIII of Book I, Title VIII concerning adoptive filiation. Adoption, from the Latin ad optare, concerns a child chosen, desired by adults, regardless of their marital status, who engage in matters of filiation; They choose it out of desire or love, but also out of responsibility. It is exactly the same as when you invoke marriage as an act of responsibility and commitment, a guarantee of sustainability for a couple. The only advantage of marriage is the commitment to welcome all the children who will come from it. A similar commitment is made at the time of adoption – it is not necessary to repeat it. The adult applicant for adoption is not only for desire; He's taking responsibility. This is precisely one of the elements that the judge checks before passing an adoption, in the interests of the child. Therefore, Mr. Breton, your concern is satisfied by the very logic of filiation in Title VIII of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u166	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor to support Amendment No. 545 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u167	Mr Jean-Michel Clément, who is a lawyer, would speak better about his amendment than I do. The purpose of this Directive is to provide, in the spirit of Article 2, that no discrimination may take place to the detriment of two partners bound by a PACS or two members who qualify for adoption. On equal terms, adoption by a married couple should not be favoured. It is a matter of common sense and adapting the right to different situations. What matters, as has been said, is the best interests of the child. In reaching the end of the logic of equality between women and men, mention should be made in the civil code "parent 1" and "parent 2". That is true equality! I regret that my amendments have been declared inadmissible. In the event of divorce, alternate residence is always granted by family judges when the mother is in favour of it. On the other hand, fathers are often injured when they are alone in asking for it. According to a more modern concept, section 373-2-9 of the Civil Code should be amended and "the judge may order alternate residence on an interim basis" should be replaced by "the judge shall order it" when one of the parents so requests. It is a real societal subject, which we must examine in order to advance the law, with the aim of the best interests of the child. Even in the case of adoption, couples may break up, whether they are married or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u169	I would like to point out that the text is not intended to deal in particular with divorce. However, in response to your amendment, Article 343 of the Civil Code defines the conditions of family status and age for adopters: it is not intended to lay down rules of non-discrimination in respect of the family status of applicants for adoption. For these reasons, I will express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u171	With regard to non-discrimination, a report published by the IGAS – Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – in 2018, following a case at the Seine-Maritime Department of Adoptions, indicated that if there was no systemic discrimination at adoption, it was necessary to be vigilant in practice. Several opening recommendations were then made. As soon as the report was published, I referred it to the National Ethics Advisory Committee and the National Council for Child Protection, which in turn issued recommendations leading to the development of an ethical charter, which recalls several fundamental principles of the adoption process, including that of non-discrimination of couples or individuals engaged in this process. This charter was signed by all the family councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u172	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u173	Besides that the principle of non-discrimination is a constitutional principle, which applies in any case to our right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u174	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u175	... we will also strengthen it with the next articles that we will examine: indeed, the formation of family councils will be completed and their composition expanded, in particular with the designation of a qualified personality, recognized for its commitment – training, sensitivity or action – in favour of non-discrimination. We therefore take into account the issues of non-discrimination in general – the issue of sexual orientation in particular, on which we will return – and we provide answers. It is therefore not necessary to include this principle in the civil code: it would be superfate because, in law, it is already a constitutional principle. On the other hand, we are focusing on ensuring that it is guaranteed in practice, because that is where the effectiveness of the rights which you decide here in the House is measured. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u176	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u177	The subject deserves to be nuanced. You are right, Mr Secretary of State, the bill has made it possible to make progress, in particular by making it compulsory to train family council members, which you have mentioned, but also in terms of accompanying adoptive parents and pupils: it is very good – and, as you see, when the proposals go in the right direction, we also know how to emphasize it. However, Article 2 raises the question: not at the time mentioned by our colleague Coralie Dubost, that of adoption, which is going very well, but at a later stage in the lives of couples who sometimes separate – and that, moreover, whether they are married, pacsé or simply in cohabitation. But the adopted child presents the specificity of having already experienced a abandonment, which creates in him additional vulnerability, fragility, which must be taken into account. Hence our questioning and attention to separations: it is a matter of the child not living it as a new abandonment, which would particularly affect it. When a married or pacified couple separates, arrangements are made, but for couples living in cohabitation, it does not seem to me that the referral to the family court is automatic. Mr Secretary of State, should we not have an intervention by the judge – or the lawyer, since there have been some developments? This would allow consideration to be given to the specific fragility of adopted children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u178	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u179	I have noted the reply of the Secretary of State, and I would like to make it clear that I had co-signed the previous amendment: tabled by our colleague Guillaume Chiche, it was intended precisely to avoid a distinction being made between real equality and effective equality. I therefore appeal to your benevolence, Madam President, to re-emphasize Amendment No 99 in the discussion, which I had co-signed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u180	I called him, Mr. Simian, and he wasn't defended. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u181	I would like to answer, at least in part, Mr Bazin's questions. If your concern – legitimate – is truly the best interests of the child, as I am convinced, then vote Article 2! Mr Bazin, today, when a couple of cohabitants who have a child separate – which, statistically, happens as much as for married couples – the family judge is seized...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u182	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u183	Of course, not necessarily, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u184	You have to be exact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u185	Let me finish! If there's a problem...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u186	Sometimes there's no problem between parents!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u187	If there is a problem – because it is indeed this situation that we are talking about – the family judge can be asked, and he will decide the question of alimony. If it is not understood, it is that the separation takes place without problems and that the parents have arranged, then obviously there is no subject. On the other hand, for a couple of concubines who have adopted, it is not possible to refer the case to the family court because, in reality, only one of the two parents was able to adopt. The situation can then become very complex: for example, if the member of the couple with the most financial means is not the adoptive parent, the latter, and therefore the child, may find himself in financial difficulty to live. Another subject you don't think about is the emotional bond. For example, the parent in respect of whom filiation is established may decide that the child must no longer see the other parent. The text will solve all these difficulties: we will secure the lives of children adopted by a couple. This reality must be taken into account, Mr. Bazin, Mr. Breton. If you are sincere in your attention to the best interests of the child, vote for article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u188	I have before me nine amendments, Nos 166, 64, 100, 204, 208, 247, 362, 544 and 422, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 64, 100 and 204 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 208, 247, 362 and 544. I call Mrs Granjus to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u189	It is intended to increase to four years, instead of just one, the common life of which a couple must be able to justify in order to adopt. While it may seem severe with regard to adopters, the amendment is intended only to protect the interests of adopted children, who need to be welcomed by a stable couple, who have been united for some time. The text aims to open up adoption to all couples, regardless of their marital regime: it is a very good societal advance, which I welcome, but we must not forget that there are twice as many separations among couples living in a common-law relationship as among married couples, and that free unions last on average less than four years. Many psychologists pointed out that an adopted child lived the separation of its adoptive parents as a second abandonment, which could lead to the development of serious psychological disorders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u190	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u191	It proposes the status quo, i.e. to remain in the current conditions: to justify two years of common life, or that the two members of the couple are over the age of 28. This allows the adopted child to benefit from a family structure with as many guarantees as possible in terms of security and stability. A single year of common life seems a little light to me to decide to adopt. I would like to take this amendment back, very briefly, to Amendment No 50 by Mrs Lorho, because you did not give me the floor at that time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u192	I cannot allow all requests to speak on each amendment. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to give priority to certain debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u193	That is why I would like to return to it. Mrs Lorho's amendment was intended to remove the possibility of adopting for a single person, except in the case of domestic adoption. Mr Secretary of State, you have told us that you want to open the adoption to couples who are pacsés or who live in cohabitation because, today, the only possibility that is offered to them is that one of the members adopts as single. Either, but if you open the adoption to pacs or cohabiting couples, you no longer need to keep the adoption solution for singles. [[Ms. Perrine Goulet protested]] I therefore come back to what I said on Wednesday: the Government itself has made the fight against the precariousness of single-parent families a priority. However, opening up even more the possibility for women or men alone to adopt means de facto placing the adoptive parent and the adopted child in a precarious situation. With regard to a situation you want to fight against, therefore, draw all the consequences: if you open adoption to couples who are pacsés or who live in cohabitation, it does not seem to me completely stupid to remove the possibility of adopting for single people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u194	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u195	I am all the more happy to defend Mr Anne-Laure Blin's amendment because, despite your arguments, Mr Secretary of State, paragraph 4 of Article 2 still worries me, and I wonder: will the changes you are proposing offer the adopted child a more stable framework? At this point, I doubt it. In fact, you're going to relax the criteria for becoming an adoptive parent – but there's no shortage of candidates today! –, but does this not pose an increased risk to the adopted child? A comment on the arguments put forward earlier: you talk about situations where things go wrong, but sometimes separations go well, including in the case of cohabitation, so that neither a notary nor a lawyer intervenes. However, one cannot be sure that the best interests of the child have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u196	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u197	I would like to look back on what Mr Bazin said, following on from what Mr Balanant said. First of all, I would like to point out that today the concubines cannot adopt. In any case, in the event of separation, either the two cohabitants agree, and then there is no problem, or they do not agree, in which case they can go to the judge. Except that, in the first case, if everything goes well in appearance, the reality can be different. In fact, it happens that one of the two members of the couple, in a position of superiority, exerts pressure so that the latter keeps quiet and does not ask to pass before the judge and imposes on him the conditions of separation. In this case, women are often the victims of these pressures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u198	Of course. So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u199	In such situations, marriage is therefore much more protective,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u200	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u201	...because it makes provision for the intervention of a judge. Today, it is possible to obtain a separation by mutual consent without going before the judge, but there is always the intervention of lawyers. A third party is therefore there to defend the weakest. As for you, you are placing yourself in a purely contractual logic of the family. You seem to think that individuals are equal: perhaps they are equal in law, but, unfortunately, not in fact. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but that's how it is. And it is the most fragile, the weakest – often the most fragile and weak – that will be the victim of the imbalance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u202	Amendment No 208 by Mr Julien Ravier is being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 247.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u203	It covers the common life required to qualify for adoption. Today, for two years, this length of time makes it possible to verify that the couple is strong and that their intention to adopt is not ephemeral. Some of our colleagues have had the courage to propose that the common life span be extended to four years, on the basis of very interesting figures. For our part, we propose to keep at least two years and not to go down to one year, a fortiori in the case of pacsés or concubines. Marriage is a commitment accompanied by rights and duties. It requires reflection, which the length of its preparation and organization allows to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u204	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u205	The opening of adoption to all marital statutes makes it all the more necessary to have a minimum common life. It would therefore be consistent to restore the two-year period, as Marc Le Fur proposes with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u206	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 362.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u207	With regard to an identical amendment, I will endeavour to develop additional arguments, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. There is a gap between the stated objectives of taking into account the interests of the child and the provisions of the current bill – which I hope we can amend to make it evolve. While the text claims to be more protective of the child and of his or her interest, it actually alleviates the conditions laid down for the adopters, in contradiction with the intended objective. A child who has already experienced a trauma must be prevented from being confronted again with a separation. Of course, all couples are free to separate, but we must be able to reduce the risk of this happening. By reducing to a period of one year, instead of two, the common living condition of the couple of adopters, this text does not seem to bring additional safety to the child. In reflecting on our discussions, I consulted a very interesting study by the Ministry of Justice, dating back to 2007, which should ask us about the subject of the common life. This study shows that children of unmarried couples who separate are on average younger – 5.8 years – than children of couples who divorce – 9 years. Presumably, unmarried couples would separate earlier than married couples. This is a matter of thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u208	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte's Amendment No 544 is being defended. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 422.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u209	Our colleagues in the Republican Group certainly do not want me to defend an amendment that does not follow the same logic as theirs, but instead intends to go to the end of the liberal logic that prevails in this bill. The intention is to open up the possibility of adoption to all couples regardless of their status, in addition to single persons, because the desire of adopters to give a family to a child is paramount. It is no longer assumed that marriage will bring about a certain stability of the couple, as previously provided by law by reserving adoption to married couples. It is now the affirmation of the will that generates stability. In this context, the time limit reduced to one year no longer makes sense! It is necessary to open up the possibility of adopting couples regardless of their status but also regardless of the length of time they have been together. The date of formation of the couple may be difficult to establish, a fortiori for couples with no status or certificate of cohabitation. Therefore, in my view, the condition of a common life must be evacuated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u210	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u211	The wording which the committee has reached seems to me to be balanced. The diversity of the amendments reinforces me in the idea of retaining it: some wish to maintain the current law, others seek to go further than the text provides by lowering the conditions of age and common life, while others suggest that they should be increased. You know that today, in order to be able to adopt, one of the two alternative conditions must be fulfilled: to demonstrate a community of life of more than two years, or that both adopters are at least 28 years of age. I would like to go back to the bottom of the subject: adopting a child is a very important act, in which the interests of the child must take precedence over those of the parents, and which must be the result of intense reflection. Adoption results in a total disruption of the life of the couple or the single person. This is why, more than the common age or life, the commitment and quality of the project are studied during the approval procedure. We also want to secure and improve this procedure by allowing prospective adoptive parents to receive information from the start. It is well during the time, quite long, of this procedure that the couple can mature their project, regardless of their status. I trust the professionals who accompany them in their approach so that each couple, or person, can progress, reflect and become aware of the commitment that adoption represents. The aim is that, at the end of the procedure, an apparent achievement can be made for the happiness of a particular child, with a particular family. For all these reasons, I express an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u213	Adoption procedures are often lengthy and sometimes difficult for future parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u214	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u215	In this regard, I would like to suggest to you the film Pupille, by Jeanne Herry, which is of great sensitivity and shows well the journeys of the adoptive families, as well as the tremendous work done by the social workers who accompany parents and children. The whole bill that we are considering, beyond section 2, is intended to better support future parents in the interests of the child. Most often, the couples who engage are strong, and the family council appreciates it. When they are not, the procedure rarely goes to its end, in reality. The Law Commission reduced the minimum age from 28 to 26 years and, at the same time, lowered the common life from two years to one. The Government will follow the wisdom of the Commission and the thresholds thus adopted at the end of its discussions. However, it seems to me necessary to place these figures within the framework of information that I will share with you. First of all, it should be borne in mind that these thresholds are floors from which approval can be sought, not from which it is obtained. As you know, then, at best, it takes nine months to get approval. In fact, taking into account the time limits, approval is granted instead when the applicant is at least 27 years old and the couple has at least two years of common life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u216	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u217	Second, it takes 3.2 years, on average, to complete the process. In fact, the strength of the couple that some have mentioned can therefore be tested and verified for a fairly long period of time. The average age of an adopter, we must know, is now 41 years old. On the other hand, 1.1% of adopters are under the age of 30; 13% are between 30 and 34 years of age; 35% are between 35 and 40 years of age. That is the reality, beyond our debates – of which I do not, of course, deny the importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u218	What is the average age at the time of application?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u219	I'll give you that figure later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u220	She must be four years younger!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u221	In any event, the figures I have just presented should reassure you of your concerns. In addition, safeguards exist – they have been recalled by the rapporteur – such as the information given to couples when they file a file of course, and the surveys carried out by social assistance as part of the usual journey. Finally, it is important to emphasize this in conclusion, the family councils examine the files, appreciating the solidity of both the project and the couple, with regard to the interests of the child. They will of course retain the possibility of refusing an application and terminating a procedure. For all these reasons, it will be a request for withdrawal – notably on Mrs Granjus' amendment – and, failing that, an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u222	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u223	Mr. Secretary of State has just clarified some of the elements that I wanted to raise. I would add that, at the time of adoption, the file is being re-checked, in particular as to the solidity of the couple. [[Ms Emmanuelle Ménard protested]] For the past few years, however, I have been shocked to hear that a stable couple should be married and share a community of life for at least two, three, four or five years. Who can say today that a couple is stable after one, two or three years? Divorce can happen even after 30 years of marriage! I would like to illustrate my point with two examples of people around me. A couple in cohabitation had a child after ten months of relationship: the two people had only been in a couple for two months when the child announced themselves. Nineteen years later, they are still together and together. Conversely, a married couple had a child after four years of marriage but separated when he was only two years old. If you are followed, colleagues, the married couple could claim adoption but not the cohabiting couple, who, however, remained the most stable. What is needed today is a maximum of different parent profiles, to match the children's profiles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u224	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] So it's not a question of age: why 26 years, and not 24 or 30 years? We should not set such barriers. Parental projects are examined by social workers, who determine whether or not the couple provides the necessary guarantees to accommodate a child. For my part, at the age of 26, I already had two children of whom I am quite capable to look after today. Fortunately, I didn't wait until I was 26 or 30 years old to have them, because today I wouldn't have a 19-year-old girl and a 21-year-old boy with whom I can enjoy life. Don't put too many barriers on! What's needed is to find projects for children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u227	Bravo Perrine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u228	Very intelligent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u229	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u230	All the arguments that you have put forward, Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, are correct: it is the assessment made by the child welfare services during the approval procedure that confirms the solidity of the draft adoption, whether the couple has formed one, two, three or ten years ago. However, the age condition can be discussed. If age does not support the maturity of the project, it promotes the economic and professional integration of adopters. It is known, for example, that the duration of studies has increased in France. Entry into working life is now difficult for young people, and an adoption project in this context seems complicated. However, it can be considered that, from a certain age, economic, social and professional integration is sufficient for a person to carry an adoption project. So I understand the age condition. But since marital status is ignored and adoption is opened up to married, pacse, recognized cohabiting couples or simply in a common-law relationship, the minimum length of the couple's existence is meaningless – especially since, as the Secretary of State points out, the procedure sometimes lasts more than a year and it is he who bases the solidity of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u231	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u232	Our colleague Perrine Goulet mixes legal rules with experienced examples...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u233	Just like you did yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u234	It's life, it's life!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u235	I agree. I'm just saying we don't have to mix everything. If everyone refers to his or her personal case, we move away from the law. We can of course cite examples from our personal experiences, which feed and inspire our discussion...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u236	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u237	... but we must not lose sight of our objective, which must be above all to avoid discrimination between children – not between adults. In other words, we must ensure that the marital status of adoptive parents is as protective as possible for children. Each of us knows married couples who have separated after six months or cohabitants who have twenty or thirty years of common life, but giving these examples does not contribute anything to our debate. You stress the purely contractual aspect of things, stressing that we are dealing with adults who agree with each other without the law having to interfere in their reports and, recalling the work done by social workers in the preparation of the accreditation file and the submission of the application, you say that we must know how to trust. However, you do not trust that, throughout the articles that will follow, you have tabled amendments aimed at imposing constraints in case management.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u238	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u239	There is obviously an ideological will on your part to direct these procedures not to the interests of children, but to the desires of adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u240	That's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u241	Mrs. Florence Granjus has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u242	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard what you have said about the time limits for obtaining approval, and I am withdrawing my amendment No 166. However, I would like to warn you on one point: it should not be possible to reduce to one year the common life required of a couple in order to allow them to file an application for approval to result in a massive influx of applications, which would delay the processing of the other files.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u243	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u244	I also withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u245	I have before me four amendments, Nos 94, 269, 363 and 98, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Benoit Simian to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u246	With your permission, Madam President, I will also defend Amendment No 98. Amendment No 94 is intended to delete the words "or to be over the age of 26" at the end of paragraph 4, in order to remove any reference to the concept of the age of the adopters, which we consider to be discriminatory. As for the withdrawal amendment No 98, it aims to ease the age requirement by reducing it from 26 to 24 years. It is widely recalled these days that the former President of the Republic Valéry Giscard d'Estaing had raised the age of majority from 21 to 18. In the same spirit of modernity, we propose to take account of the evolution of society by removing the requirement of a minimum age for parents wishing to apply for adoption. Everyone has a life course and today we can imagine that some people want to embark on adoption at the age of 23, for example. It is in fact a matter of preserving the freedom of everyone, especially since, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, the procedure of approval usually takes between three and nine years, which increases the age of parents at the time when adoption can become effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u247	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u248	There has been a breakthrough in committee, as we have gone from 28 to 26 years of age. With Amendment No 269, I propose that this age be lowered to 25. We can legitimately question this proposal, which I am making in the interests of harmonisation with European law, with most of our neighbours demanding a minimum age of 25 – this is particularly the case for Germany and Spain. As a convinced European, I think that the more convergence between the national rights of the countries of the European Union, the better. I would add that in 1996, a report from the Senate called for this age of 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u249	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 363.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u250	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To hear Mr Balanant, I welcome the fact that our European neighbours have not adopted a minimum age of 15 or 18...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u251	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u252	I am jokingly saying this, but I believe, however, that our right has its specificities, and that we can be proud that it is sometimes more protective than that of other countries. Mr Secretary of State, the figures you mentioned are very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u253	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u254	They show that there is no strong demand for adopters aged 28 because, if that were the case, the current average age of adopters would be much lower than the age of 41 that you indicated to us, even taking into account the length of time the files are being processed. This proposal aims to reduce the minimum age of adopters, which may seem surprising at a time when couples who design children do so more and more later: to resume your semantics, parenting projects take place at an increasingly distant age. This measure may have very little real effect, but it may also be a signal. As for the concern for harmonisation with the law of our European neighbours, it is commendable, but it seems to me that it could be invoked in many other areas. Adoption is a serious decision, which has serious consequences and therefore requires great maturity. If we want the right to be more protective for children, it does not seem appropriate to lighten the conditions currently imposed on adopters, especially since there are no shortage of candidates. Admittedly, maturity does not always go hand in hand with an advanced age, but it is still possible to think that the experience of the parents is, it, a guarantee of security for the adopted child, and increases the guarantee for the adopted child, who has already experienced the trauma of abandonment, not to live it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u255	I call Mr Benoit Simian to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u256	I have already presented it, but I would like to stress that age and wisdom do not necessarily go hand in hand, and that it therefore seems wise to remove any age condition, which is discriminatory in nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u257	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u258	At present, many families with approval do not necessarily go as far as the apparent. We need to diversify people, not just couples, who want to adopt. A couple of quadrennials, whether married or not, who have tried for years, during a often complicated and painful journey, to conceive a child in a carnal way before deciding to adopt, and much younger people who, having learned very early that they could not conceive of a child, engaged very early in an adoption project, make extremely different profiles of each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u260	Not lowering the age required to adopt amounts to depriving oneself of the latter, which seems to me a great pity when we know the number of children placed on social assistance for children who, in the absence of adoption, remain until the age of 18 in foster care or in institutions. I am therefore in favour of lowering the age required for adoption. As regards possible harmonisation on this point with other European countries, it is probably better to wait until we are really ready for this. For the reasons I have just mentioned, I express an opinion against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u262	I agree with what the rapporteur has just said, and I believe that we must stick to the committee's proposal for balance. It is not a question of trying to make modern at all costs, Mr Simian; and if I am not modern on this point, I assume it. I believe that there is a need for both the common living conditions and the age of the adopters, which – I agree with Mrs Goulet on this point – has nothing to do with marital status. In this respect, I may be more conservative than our friends sitting on the right-hand benches, and again I assume it. I therefore do not see why we should lower the age required for adoption. Defining a general framework is the subject of the law, Mr. Breton, which does not prevent us from then trusting the professionals of social workers and family councils, whose training we will also strengthen, for the purposes of this law. As the text of the proposal seems to be based on a balanced solution, I express an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u263	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u264	I would point out that, in the present state of law, the age requirement is only required in the absence of a common life. Thus, a person who married at the age of 18 can perfectly adopt at the age of 20. The text of the proposal slightly lowers the age required for adoption and the length of the community of life defined in a jurisprudential manner – with the clarification that social workers and the judge will have to assess the ability of adoption candidates to accompany a child, as well as their sense of responsibility and commitment – but this does not revolutionize the rule of law. Without going up to the age of 25 years corresponding to what is being done elsewhere in Europe, we believe that the age of 26 in the text makes it possible to rely on a certain maturity of the parents. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, the current law already allowed a large number of families to apply and, as the rapporteur has said, if this bill allows even a couple in France whose members are 27 years old to welcome a child and to accompany her throughout her life, we all agree that it is worth adopting this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u265	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u266	[[Smile]] [[Same movements]] I am pleased to hear the Secretary of State refuse to play the game of modernism at all costs and assume a conservative position. We welcome you, Secretary of State, and will soon have the opportunity to verify the solidity of your convictions in this area. As Gustave Thibon said – unless it is Jean Guitton or Milan Kundera, since the origin of this quotation is uncertain – "wanting to be in the wind is a dead leaf ambition."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u267	I call Mr Benoit Simian to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u268	On a question of this importance, it is not by opposing the reformers to the Conservatives that we will move forward – as Jacques Chirac said, "the gathering before the reform, and everything will go well". We must all come together to defend the principle of the interests of the child, and it is the meaning of this amendment that aims to ensure that the conditions of age and common life are no longer cumulative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u269	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 445, 446, 447 and 448, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u270	Amendment No. 445, in reply, is intended to supplement paragraph 4 by stating that "if the applicants have lived together for less than two years, the judge may order a social inquiry to ensure the psychological stability of the applicants", and the other amendments are in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u271	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u272	Before deciding on adoption, the court must verify that all the legal conditions applicable to the adoptee and adopter, in particular those relating to the age and common life, are met, that the institution of adoption is not instrumentalised and, above all, that the adoption is in the interests of the child. If he has doubts about any of these points, he may have an investigation carried out by a qualified person or give a doctor an examination deemed necessary. Therefore, it is not necessary to order a social inquiry if the applicants have lived together for less than two years, without further justification of their common life. This is all the less necessary in view of the fact that we are reducing the common life requirement to one year. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u274	On Amendments Nos 445 and 446, my opinion will be unfavourable for the same reasons. With regard to Amendments Nos 447 and 448, I would ask you to withdraw them, Mr Breton, because they seem to us to be satisfied: compulsory preparation for adoption is already taken into account since the proposed legislation provides for training in the context of accreditation; as regards compulsory monitoring, provision is also made for pupils of the State and intercountry adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u275	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u276	I withdraw Amendment No 448, but maintain my three other amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u277	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u278	Several amendments advocated today are based on the argument of stability and emphasize that marital status would be more protective for children. It seems to me important to reassure their authors. Regardless of the type of union, the same protection is provided to children when their parents live together or when they are separated. Everyone, when engaged in a relationship, wants it to last as long as possible: I think we can all agree on that. The fact of being married, pacified or in cohabitation does not change anything in this regard. In case of separation – which is due to multiple factors, beyond meeting with another person – the rights concerning the children are the same: right of access, maintenance, sharing of parental authority. I see that your arguments have evolved, Mr. Breton. Until Wednesday, you stressed that divorce necessarily involved the intervention of a judge. Today, you say that it is necessarily necessary for a lawyer to intervene, which is true since the new procedure whereby a judge no longer has to be brought before it provides for the spouses to have recourse to a lawyer and a notary. In the event of the separation of an unmarried couple, either the separation is amicable or a judge is brought before, an easy procedure that covers both the rights of children and the rights of the couple. I would also like to reply to Mrs Ménard on the compensatory benefit provided for in a divorce: it does not concern children at all. It is paid when the divorce creates a disparity in living conditions between ex-spouses, whether or not they have children. Protection of one member of the couple should not be mixed with children's rights. [[Ms. Coralie Dubost applauds]] So be reassured, ladies and gentlemen: whatever the legal status of the union, children have the same rights and parents have the same obligations towards them, including in cases of separation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u279	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 128, 220, 248 and 364. Amendments Nos 128 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 220 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u280	This amendment by the Republican Group goes back to the conditions of community life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u281	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u282	It is above all paragraphs 8 and 9 that I am aiming at through this amendment. Adoption candidates may now be bound by a cohabitation or a PACS. We discussed the issue of separations and the non-automaticity of the intervention of the judge in family matters to ensure that the interests of children are well preserved. It is important that we also address the possibility of a death, beyond conflict. Only marriage, at present, provides for succession between spouses. If there has been no will, the member of the surviving couple may be completely financially deprived, especially if the member of the deceased couple had children from another union. An adopted child who is once again orphaned should be prevented from receiving a reduced share of inheritance. [[Smile]] I therefore invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to be conservative... in the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u283	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u284	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u285	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u287	The same opinion, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u288	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u289	I would like to go back to the words of our colleague, who points to our change of argument. I did some research in the transcript of the Wednesday night session, during which I said: "Yes, divorce by mutual consent can now be done before a judge or with the recourse of a lawyer. A third party is always present to defend the interests of the most fragile. We were against the judge's eviction because we believe that he must be there to speak the word of society in relation to the institution of marriage, and in relation to the breakdown of marriage. But there is still a procedure that is not found in the PACS or in the free union. This shows that we had already taken into account the fact that divorce could take place without the intervention of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u290	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u291	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u292	I would like to reassure Mr Bazin, who is concerned about the possible consequences for the child of the death of one of the concubines who adopted him, particularly with regard to inheritance. Precisely, if you want to preserve the interests of the child, you must vote in favour of the possibility of adoption by the other partner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u293	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u294	If the child is also the parent, the child's inheritance rights are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u295	They can get married!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u296	They don't have to!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u297	Precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u298	On the other hand, if you allow adoption only by one person, even if he or she is in cohabitation, these rights will not be guaranteed. So vote this article 2 that goes your way. He is immensely protective of the rights of the child. As to whether or not the judge should intervene in the event of a separation, I also want to reassure you, gentlemen. If concubines with children, whether adopted or not, separate without intervention from the family judge, it is likely that they have reached an amicable agreement, so that means that this is going well. The judge intervenes only when there are difficulties in establishing an agreement to ensure the continuity of life and maintenance of the child. If reasonable adults find reasonable solutions in the child's interest, so much the better! When necessary, the law opens up the possibility of bringing a judge to resolve a difficulty. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So rest assured, and vote this article in peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u299	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u300	It is intended to delete paragraph 6 and set the minimum age for a single person wanting to adopt at 28 years of age. We have already had a debate on this. I would like to take this amendment in response to my colleague who asked me about the compensatory benefit. She wasn't meant for children, she opposed me. Of course, but it has a bearing on the lives of children, since it is intended to avoid financial insecurity that may affect the parent, but also his or her children, if he or she has. With regard to the possibility of adopting for an isolated parent, I would like to share with you the results of an American study published on the Medical Xpress website on December 2. It shows that single parents have a lower heart health than couple parents, probably because it is very stressful to be an isolated parent: they carry a heavy burden on their shoulders, with no one to delegate responsibility, and have less time to look after their own health. This study corroborates other work on the impact of single parenthood on health. In 2016, a study found that in the United States, being a single working mother implied a higher risk of heart disease and stroke. Other studies in Sweden and Canada have reached the same conclusions. If you are committed to the best interests of the child and his or her safety, you should take these facts into account. If the adoption is extended to couples linked by a PACS or a cohabitation, let's avoid it being allowed again for single parents, thus to single people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u302	For all the reasons mentioned above, I can only be against your amendment, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u303	I have before me three amendments, Nos 270, 105 and 104, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 270 by Mr Erwan Balanant is being defended. Mr Benoit Simian has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 105 and 104, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u304	I have co-signed these amendments by Guillaume Chiche which, for one, aim at lowering the age from which to adopt at 18 years and for the other, from retreat to 24 years, because their summary statement seemed to me to be very well drafted. In our country, from the age of 18, we can be elected deputy or, since the 2011 reform, President of the Republic. Why bother with age considerations when it comes to adoption? Why should we judge, instead of social workers, the maturity of the candidates? To agree to lower the minimum age would be a real step forward in the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u306	For all the reasons we have mentioned since this morning, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u308	I have already set out my position on age. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u309	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 412.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u310	We have already had a debate in committee on the obligation for any candidate for adoption to formally obtain the consent of the other member of the couple. However, there is a great difference, from a legal point of view, in the rights and duties that are required of married couples, pampered couples, couples living in cohabitation – whether certified or not – and couples who have chosen free union. Such an obligation seems disproportionate to couples in cohabitation, especially since the adoption project is in any case the subject of an evaluation by the child welfare services. Additional argument: a single person can adopt a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u312	This amendment was not discussed by the committee, but received a favourable opinion in the context of the Rule 88 review. We reiterate this favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u314	For the sake of clarity of our discussions, it should be recalled that when a married person individually adopts a child, French law provides that his or her spouse must consent to such adoption. This consent does not imply the creation of a bond of filiation with him, it is solely intended to guarantee, in the interests of the child, that the person who shares the life of the adopter does not object to welcoming him to his home. As you noted, honourable Member, extending this provision to couples of cohabitants may be problematic. Conjugalization is a de facto situation. While it is relatively easy for a person to prove that he or she is in a cohabitation, it is much more difficult for him or her to prove that he or she is not in a relationship with a third party. This real difficulty in providing some sort of proof of non-concumbency could lead to complicating or even preventing adoptions in this type of situation. That is why the Government is also in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u315	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u316	Its purpose is to lift the prohibition on the adoption of the child by the former spouse, the former partner or the former member of the family. This amendment has two objectives. First of all, it is a question of facilitating the recognition of the dual bond of filiation, especially for children born of management for others – GPA – abroad. When considering the bioethics bill, the Assembly made the choice – which I do not share – to limit the transcription of the foreign civil status certificate to only biological parents, requiring parents of intention to resort to adoption. However, as was often recalled in the debates, the circumstances of life can lead a couple to separate before adoption is pronounced. It is therefore necessary not to discriminate against the child in the light of his or her design, nor to charge him or her for the moral incrimination which is imposed on the parenting project from which he or she is born, by amputating him or her on one side of his or her filiation. Then, the provision that I propose would answer another issue: the recognition of the family place occupied by the parents-in-law. It seems to me to be in the interests of children to provide a means of legally strengthening their right to maintain ties with those who have behaved in their own right, sometimes for many years, as parents towards them. Our right would benefit from taking into account the dynamics of family recomposition that I mentioned at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u318	I fully understand your remarks, but I fear that your amendment is contrary to Article 346 of the Civil Code, which states that "no one may be adopted by more than one person except by two spouses". After the bill – which I believe – has been voted on, it will be possible for two people to pass the bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u320	As you pointed out, we discussed these issues during the discussion of the bioethics bill, and there was a disagreement between, on the one hand, the position that you and some of your colleagues were defending, and, on the other hand, the position of the Government, which, in accordance with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, has not changed since. I understand the configuration that you describe and the importance of the links that can unite a child with his or her former stepparent. In the case you refer to, however, the child is not a result of a joint parenting project. Even more, the stepparent never established his filiation with him during the life of the parent, when he could do so. It is therefore difficult to justify the adoption of the child after separation, when he or she no longer participates in his or her interview and no longer lives with him or her. Adoption is not intended to give legal support to the right of the child and his or her former stepparent to maintain ties; Other mechanisms exist for this, such as the granting of access and accommodation rights – a right that should easily apply, since, in the configuration you describe, the other parent would even be willing to consent to the adoption of the child. In other words, which can be the least possible. Finally, if the relationship between the child and his or her former stepparent was subsidiary in nature and had to be legally enshrined, a simple adoption would always be possible for the majority of the child, with his or her consent of course. For all these reasons, the Government expresses an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u321	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 10, 129, 221 and 365. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u322	It is intended to delete paragraph 10. Adoption is not instituted for the benefit of the applicants for adoption – there is no right to the child – but for the benefit of the child and the child alone. The stability, strength and mode of union chosen by the applicants for adoption are not anodizing, and the chosen way of life necessarily has consequences on the ability of adults to protect the child. Adoption should therefore be maintained only for married couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u323	Amendments Nos 129 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 221 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 365.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u324	I would like to move forward in the debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u325	Move forward, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u326	... and go back to the legal difference between marriage and the ACAP, with its effects on adopted children. You have often referred to divorce by mutual consent. Unlike marriage, the ACAP can be dissolved unilaterally. Another difference is that divorce by mutual consent results in the intervention of a judge, which may have consequences for adopted children. Madam rapporteur, have you examined all the consequences of these different situations for children?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u327	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u328	For all the reasons I mentioned earlier, I will give an unfavorable opinion. We have indeed studied the different situations and their consequences for adopted children – we have already talked about them on Wednesday, and I will not go back to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u329	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u330	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u331	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u332	You just said that you had studied all the situations, Madam rapporteur. However, in the context of divorce by mutual consent, the minor must be informed that he or she may be heard by a judge. Is this not more protective than a situation in which he is not necessarily informed of this possibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u334	Even at the end of the review of Article 2, Mr Bazin, we will not agree with our vision of the stability or instability of married, pacified or cohabiting people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u335	We're talking! Don't be stuck!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u336	Don't be stuck either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u337	I repeat: what guided me in this bill is indeed the interests of the child; It is a question of finding, for each of the children whose life plan is to be adopted, a family that corresponds to it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u339	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u340	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u341	You're talking about a vision, rapporteur. We all have the right to have visions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u342	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u343	You don't have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u344	...but here we do law. I refer you to the Civil Code: there are legal differences between the possible statutes of the parents, and they have consequences for the children. I would like us to examine the circumstances under which the interests of the child are taken into consideration, and in which cases the child will be heard by a judge. Different automatisms are provided for the child according to the status of the parents; Let's take a good look at these differences. You say that you have a vision and that everything will go well, but I would like to be assured – perhaps we have to change situations other than marriage, to preserve the child. Apart from divorce by mutual consent, I repeat, we are not assured of the judge's intervention with the child. I am still in the process of questioning, because I do not know what fate will be reserved for Article 2, whose examination we have not finished.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u345	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u346	Since you have asked me about this, Mr. Breton, I would like to return to separation and divorce without the intervention of the judge. I just checked the report: before my intervention on Wednesday evening, you said: "... in the event of a breakdown of a PACS or a cohabitation, there is no legal procedure. However, in a divorce, the role of the judge is to protect the child and to take into account his or her interests. It was only after my intervention that a divorce could be pronounced without a judge, that you in turn mentioned this possibility. It is important to recall the chronology of our interventions. Mr Bazin, you talk about separations at the initiative of one of the couple's members in the context of marriage, PACS and cohabitation. These are ways of separating. But you have an amalgam, certainly to the point – as Mrs Ménard also does – between the situation of the couple's members and that of the children. However, the situation of children at separation is exactly the same in all cases, regardless of the status of the parents. The Civil Code provides that a child, when he or she has a certain capacity for discernment, may be heard by the judge when his or her parents separate – whether they are married, pacified or in cohabitation – in any proceedings concerning him or her – a right of access, for example, when custody is requested by a parent. Don't worry, children's rights are the same in all cases. Finally, Mrs Ménard, let us be precise about the compensatory benefit: it aims to compensate for disparities in living conditions resulting from separation, without necessarily referring to precariousness – once again, you mix the terms. There is not necessarily a precarious situation in the event of separation. Each parent's contribution to the child is assessed on the basis of his/her abilities, regardless of the status of the previous relationship between the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u347	We found the flaw!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u348	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 11, 130, 222 and 366. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u349	I will use this amendment to ask the Secretary of State and the rapporteur: is marriage more protective for the child than other marital statutes, in terms of compensatory benefits? As a reminder, the aim of the latter is to provide each adult with an income that will enable him or her to take care of the children; They are therefore affected indirectly, but fully, since there is a question of the means by which they will be educated. Article 271 of the Civil Code provides that, in order to determine the compensatory benefit, "the judge shall take into account... the consequences of the professional choices made by one of the spouses during the common life for the upbringing of the children and the time that will still have to be devoted to them...". The child's opinion is thus integrated into the compensatory benefit mechanism. In fact, this mechanism is more protective for the child; But it does not exist in the PACS, nor in the concubinage. Madam rapporteur, now that you have studied the differences between marital status, since the committee meeting and the previous sittings, do you confirm that the mechanism of compensatory benefit – so divorce, so marriage – is more protective for the best interests of the child?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u350	Amendments Nos 130 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 222 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 366.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u351	Given the importance of the subject, we must not study it with forced and accelerated walking...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u352	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u353	... especially since we do not have an impact assessment of the Council of State. I am just wondering what the consequences of the provisions we are discussing are. I understand that we were not really focused on international adoption; However, when it comes to adoption, foreign countries are looking closely at the arrangements we are making. Madam rapporteur, have you considered the consequences of the developments and the flexibilities that you propose for foreign children proposed for adoption? Will these provisions encourage foreign countries to offer more abandoned children to French families, or will they dissuade them, as we saw a few years ago?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u354	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u355	Your amendments and your questions lead me to repeat explanations that we have already given. As I said earlier, referral to the family judge is possible for all separated couples. When a couple separates, whether they are spouses, partners or cohabitants, referral to the family judge is always possible in order to determine the consequences of the separation. However, the purpose of the referral varies depending on whether it is a matter of settling the consequences of a separation between spouses, partners or cohabitants. In most cases, a married couple initiates divorce proceedings before the family court; spouses may also file a legal separation action if they wish to separate themselves without divorce, or, in the event of de facto separation, bring an action to settle the contribution to the marriage charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u356	A couple of partners or cohabitants may refer the matter to the family court to determine the measures relating to the exercise of parental authority and maintenance. In the case of separation of the couple, whether a couple of spouses, partners or cohabitants, the rules governing the exercise of parental authority are the same, according to article 373-2 of the Civil Code. Furthermore, articles 373-2-6 et seq. of the same Civil Code, relating to the Office of the Family Judge, do not distinguish between the forms of the couple. In all cases, the family court, when determining the habitual residence of the child and the right of access and accommodation of the other parent in particular, must ensure that the interests of the minor are safeguarded. In case of separation of the unmarried parent couple and in case of divorce of the married parent couple, the contribution to the child's maintenance and upbringing takes the form of a maintenance payment from one parent to the other. The terms and guarantees of such maintenance are laid down, either by a parental agreement approved by the judge, as specified in article 373-2 of the Civil Code. I hope I've answered your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u358	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u359	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u360	I understand the approach of our Conservative comrades, but I would like to ask what is the reality of adoption in our country. All your speeches show, colleagues on the right, that you do not know anything about this subject, whether it is the consequences of the time limit for minimum age or, here, intercountry adoption – since each country applies its own legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u361	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u362	The Marriage for All Act 2013 did not change our relations with third countries at all. Some countries recognize homosexual couples in their national law; others, same-sex couples, but not single people. Thus, in their bilateral relations with France, they apply their national law. Your argument is therefore completely disconnected from the reality of adoption. That is a shame, but it is the case with almost all of your arguments since the beginning of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u363	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u364	[[Smile]] The text refers to the age limit, which placed you in the Conservatives, Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the common life and marital status, but not sexual orientation at all. My question therefore concerns rather the developments provided for in Article 2. Will they have a positive or negative effect? You're telling me that you don't. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u365	In real life, there are seven years of waiting to adopt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u366	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u367	During the examination of the text in committee, section 343-1 of the Civil Code was amended to replace the word "spouse" with the words "the other member of the couple" in situations involving an unseparated married couple. It makes sense to the extent that the couple can be made up of two women. Therefore, consistent with this amendment, we propose in section 2, paragraph 11, to replace the word "spouse" with the words "the other member of the unseparate married couple". Thus, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 344 of the Civil Code would read as follows: "If the latter are the children of the other member of the married couple not separated by body, of the partner bound by a civil pact of solidarity or of the cohabitation, the required age difference is only ten years. » The wording may seem rather cumbersome, but it would thus encompass the three situations of couples addressed in this bill: the married couple not separated by body, the pacse couple and the couple in cohabitation. It would not be consistent for this paragraph to mention only the partner bound by a civil solidarity pact and the partner, and not the other member of the married couple.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u369	I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable. You propose to replace the word "spouse" with the words "the other member of the married couple not separated by body". In addition to repeating the words "partner bound by a civil pact of solidarity or the concubine", this amendment complicates the drafting, at the risk of undermining the intelligibility of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u371	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u372	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u373	I would like to return for a moment to the legal certainty provided to children according to the legal status of their parents' union, so on marriage. I would point out that the compensatory benefit is not due to the children but to the spouse who divorces and is, as a result of this event, disadvantaged in relation to his previous situation. It is clear that the compensatory benefit is different from the maintenance or contribution to the maintenance and education of children. You keep reminding us that we don't know anything about adoption and that we don't understand anything about real life. I'm sorry to say that, but for the moment, welcome to real life! When you are divorced and receive a compensatory benefit and child support, I'm afraid you don't have two separate accounts, one where there will be the compensatory benefit and the other where the support will be paid. Land a little! I refer you to your argument: since you don't understand anything, let us discuss it between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u374	That's what you've been doing all along!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u375	That's exactly what you told us five minutes ago, Mr. Gérard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u376	Identical Amendments Nos 12 by Mr Xavier Breton, 131 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 223 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u377	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 272.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u378	It concerns the same subject as before. Madam rapporteur, you say that my amendment would make the law less intelligible; But the article, as it is written, is not precise. That is why we propose a more precise and consistent wording, so that some couples are not excluded because of an inappropriate formulation. I am sure that, as part of the shuttle, honourable senators will find a formulation. Otherwise, we will have to find one, otherwise there will remain an inaccuracy that is perhaps more serious than a burdensome syntax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u379	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u380	My opinion remains unfavorable. But if we find a better formulation, why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u381	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u382	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u383	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u384	This is clearly the limit of the development of the bill. You're referring to the shuttle, Mr. Balanant. But as we are in an accelerated procedure, the shuttle will be reduced to its strict minimum. We would have liked to know the opinion of the Chancellery, since we are touching the articles of the Civil Code, which is not secondary. And we do so in the absence of the advice of the Council of State and the possibility of hearing the custody of the seals, which should be present. You are right to say, Mr Balanant, that this will have consequences. We can all agree to regret the conditions under which this text is being examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u385	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u386	Mr Breton, I represent the opinion of the Chancellery here. I will not repeat the substantive arguments: they are similar to those of the rapporteur, and the Chancellery shares them. We have, of course, prepared this text and the replies to the amendments, particularly those relating to the civil code, with the Chancellery, one of whose representatives is on the bench, alongside me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u387	Identical Amendments Nos 13 by Mr Xavier Breton, 132 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 224 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 368 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u388	Identical Amendments Nos 14 by Mr Xavier Breton, 233 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 369 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u389	Amendment No 273 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u390	Identical Amendments Nos 15 by Mr Xavier Breton, 133 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 234 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 370 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u391	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u393	These amendments run counter to Article 2. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u394	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 509.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u395	The aim is to simplify the wording of article 353-1, referring to all the cases where approval is required, that is, in accordance with article L. 225-2 of the Code of Social Action and Families, for the adoption of a ward of the State and for that of a minor who is habitually residing abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u397	This is indeed a simplification. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u398	Identical Amendments Nos 39 by Mr Xavier Breton, 134 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 235 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 371 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u399	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u400	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u401	These amendments are intended to challenge Article 2. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u402	Amendment No 274 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u403	Identical Amendments Nos 16 by Mr Xavier Breton, 135 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 236 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 372 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u404	Amendment No 275 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u405	Identical Amendments Nos 17 by Mr Xavier Breton, 136 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 237 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 373 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u406	Amendment No 276 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u407	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u408	This amendment is intended to break the rule that simple adoption is only possible for one of the spouses. As part of a recomposed family, a child's biological parents may have rebuilt their lives, each on its own. Currently, only one parent can adopt the child in a simple adoption. This causes a kind of race against the clock, the first to ask for adoption being satisfied. That is why I propose that adoption be possible by each of the two parents of each couple, i.e. both biological parents would have parental authority, and simple adoption would be possible by the stepfather, by the stepmother or by both – in short, in all possible configurations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u410	I will give the same answer as for the previous amendment. I fear that your amendment is contrary to Article 346 of the Civil Code, which provides for the adoption of plenary and simple adoption that no one can be adopted by more than one person except by two spouses – and, if the bill is adopted, by two persons or two cohabitants. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u412	In line with the comments made by the rapporteur and those I made earlier, I would like to stress once again that this text carries equality, in particular in that it opens up adoption to unmarried couples. However, we must be guided by the interests of the child, who is the prism I wish to preserve. Without, of course, the question of stigmatizing any family configuration, the multi-parentality to which you refer does not seem to me to provide all the guarantees of stability or benchmarks that a child would need. I therefore propose that we continue to reflect on these aspects, which correspond to the reality of the lives of a number of our fellow citizens, to see how we can move forward. At this stage, therefore, I am not in favour of opening up this possibility of multiple adoption. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u413	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u414	I withdraw the amendment, but since we are constantly being referred to Article 346 of the Civil Code, it may be the one that needs to be amended. I therefore count on the discussion of the text in the Senate to allow us to move forward on this point, which covers a real reality of our families. It would be in the best interests of the child to be able to benefit from the succession of both parents, in the same way as his brothers and sisters who may have been born on one side of the recomposed family.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u415	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u416	It aims to include the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity or worship in simple adoption procedures. The aim is to achieve real and effective equality between all families in adoption procedures. It is important to include this principle in the legislation, as we have done in the bioethics bill, for the simple reason that, on the test of fact, as Ms Karamanli pointed out a few days ago, there are situations of discrimination, which are also subject to judicial review, with some families being excluded because of their marital status, form or gender identity of the couple. When I hear Mrs Ménard saying that the existence of a difference between a man and a woman would have a fundamental value in the interests of the child, I will not say that this idea shockes me, but I am fighting it, because it is not a prerequisite for the child to develop in good conditions. In the same way, when I hear Mr Breton explain that marriage is a guarantee of greater legal certainty and that it is the only situation in which an adopted child can flourish under the best conditions within a family, it is still an idea that I am fighting. I recognize, however, that Mrs Ménard and Mr Breton echo the national representation of such orientations because they find a reality in the minds of a number of our fellow citizens and that this can lead to the rejection of the request for adoption of certain couples and individuals. That is why I propose to include the principle of non-discrimination in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u417	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u418	Mr Chiche, I will quickly recall what we said earlier before you arrived. Combating discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, marital status or gender identity of adopters is necessary. However, it does not seem desirable to include it in the Civil Code, since such discrimination is already prohibited by articles 225-1 and 225-2 of the Criminal Code. On the other hand, the proposal for a law, as has been pointed out, provides for mechanisms to combat discrimination, with the compulsory training of members of the family council and the presence of a qualified person on the board because of his competence, experience and training in the fight against discrimination, which can contribute to exchanges with other members of the family council throughout the work carried out to study the situation and to combat such discrimination. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u419	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u420	Mr. Chiche, perhaps you followed our discussions from your office. In response to the previous amendments tabled by Mr Simian, I would like to point out that in addition to the law – the penal code referred to by the rapporteur, and even the constitutional principle of non-discrimination, which is binding on all – there is practice, and you are right to point out that it is over the last kilometre that we need to examine how the measures we adopt are being implemented. Without further detailing the malfunctions which have been observed in the Seine-Maritime and which have been the subject of a report by the IGAS, I have had a charter drawn up – which is certainly only a charter, but which nevertheless establishes fundamental principles signed by all members of the family councils of our country, under the authority of the prefects, and recalls certain obvious and fundamental points, such as non-discrimination. Furthermore, as the rapporteur has said, you are going to vote for very concrete measures that will strengthen this fight against discrimination, with the training of the members of the family council and the appointment of a qualified person to this council who will have to show genuine qualification, interest and commitment in these areas. We therefore have a set of mechanisms that are not only constitutional and legislative, but also very practical and operational, and must avoid any real risk of perceived discrimination in adoption procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u421	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u422	Both Mr Chiche's amendment and the defence of this amendment show that it remains consistent in the logic of placing oneself on the side of adults, with a view to the right to the child, thereby joining Mr Gérard's position. We know that you are very active in the field of initiators and activists, both in this piece of legislation and in the bioethics bill. Thus, the delight with which Mr. Gérard evoked all possible family configurations clearly shows that there are different visions. For us, the family is not just a contractual agreement between two or three adults, or more: it has an established character, which we must keep, and society must say things about it. There are differences between us, and that is so much better, but the position of the Government, which is trying to stand in the middle, is an unstable situation that leads to untenable legal DIY.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u423	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u424	I had the opportunity to follow our debates remotely before joining the House, and that is what I did. I can only welcome the willingness to put an end, in practice, to different forms of discrimination, whether through a charter or through training. All this goes in the right direction, and whenever we can move forward in this direction, I will support this approach. However, the very existence of discrimination is a matter of debate for some of our colleagues, and unless I am mistaken, this seems to be the case for Mr Breton: there is no discrimination situation, and we would stand exclusively on the side of adults. I don't think so: we think both of the children, in their best interests, and of the situation of families who can receive them and adopt them. It is precisely because there is a debate on the existence of discrimination that it is necessary, for the intelligibility of this Act, to recall, as Mr. Gérard explained, this principle of non-discrimination with regard to the family model, sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status. I therefore maintain this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u425	Identical Amendments Nos 18 by Mr Xavier Breton, 137 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 238 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 374 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u426	Amendment No 278 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u427	Identical Amendments Nos 19 by Mr Xavier Breton, 138 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 239 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 375 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u428	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendments Nos 279 and 280, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u429	Amendment No 279 is being defended. Amendment No. 280, on the other hand, is intended to replace the words "of the father or mother" with the words "of one of the parents". In this case, it is a matter of being precise and clear, in line with Article 13, which we will consider later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u430	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u431	Disfavorable on Amendment No 279 and favourable on Amendment No 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u432	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u433	Disfavorable on Amendment No 279. As for Amendment No 280, it is intended to bring Article 365 of the Civil Code into line, by replacing the terms "father" and "mother" with "parents", since your committee adopted this amendment in the Code of Social Action and Families. It does not seem inconsistent to us to foresee this change in the civil code, especially since the use of the term "parents" is a forceful reaffirmation of the principle of equality of couples, regardless of their sexual orientation. The Government therefore relies on the wisdom of your assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u434	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u435	This amendment is interesting because it expresses a fury to delete the words "father" and "mother", as if they were big words. A thousand apologies, but, if you don't like it, a father or mother corresponds to different qualities, depending on the sex of the people. Sexual otherness and complementarity are realities and the desire to evacuate them, in the logical continuation of all the debates that we have had since 2013, clearly shows what ideology you are bearers of. We are therefore firmly opposed to the adoption of this amendment and will see whether it is, within the majority, the militant and radical wing that prevails, the wing that wants to change everything and break everything in our family law, or whether, on the contrary, we continue to place this right on the bases that founded it, by making it evolve, but recognizing that the words "father" and "mother" have a meaning. I could of course mention, like you, the emotional level and talk about love, but I stick to the legal level: the words we are talking about have a meaning, which must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u436	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u437	You're getting a little excited, Mr. Breton!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u438	Oh, no! I can do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u439	I agree with you that a father and a mother are not the same, but since, in our texts and in the provisions of our law, we make certain things possible for two women or two men, this amendment by my group merely proposes a solid legal writing: to speak of a father and a mother in the case of a couple of women or men, it does not work, while the term "parents" works in both cases. It is simply right, and it must be solid. So don't get excited with great trials of moral-religio-I-don't-know-what intentions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u440	Where did you see religion in the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u441	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 20, 139, 240 and 376. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u442	I would like to take this amendment back to the one that has just been adopted: it is interesting to note that, despite the government's embarrassed opinion, which knows that the words have a meaning, especially in the field of law, a militant wing is manoeuvring on this text, as it has been for several months, to delete the words "father" and "mother". My dear colleague Balanant, I do not get excited, but it is important to keep these words in our right, and I agree to say so. When you tell me about two women or two men and I tell you that there is something that has always existed and that works, I don't see what the problem is. You tell me that I use all sorts of arguments, especially religious, but at what point did I refer, even once, to something religious?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u443	Not today, it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u444	Not once, at any time, in all the debates we have had for months and years! This is the argument of those who no longer know what to say and who are reduced to referring their opponents to considerations that have nothing to do with the debate. Let us respect ourselves, exchange arguments, but avoid any trial of intent. Do I blame you for being part of this or that association? No! I respect you, I respect your experience. We each have our own experience, our own convictions, and there is no valid argument of authority, no consideration outside our debate, which must feed on arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u445	Identical amendments No 139 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 240 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 376 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u446	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u447	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u448	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u449	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u450	I don't want to argue with you, Mr. Breton. I respect you, I regard your seriousness and it is true that I did not hear you speak of religion in these debates, but we know very well that you defend certain principles in connection with this and it is entirely legitimate – I am from the same religious family as you and I have no concern about it. But I'm not an activist at all: I'm just a law activist. It is simply a matter of avoiding that, in a couple of women, one of them is designated as the father! The use of the word "parent" solves the problem: that's all, Mr. Breton. I'm sure you can understand that, especially since it's also in line with what you've been asking for earlier: it's about being precise, that's all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u451	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u452	This amendment is intended, in the same way, to replace the words "the other member of the unseparated married couple, the partner bound by a civil solidarity pact or the partner" with the words "the spouse" in paragraph 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u453	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 21, 140, 241 and 377. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u454	I would like to point out, in line with my discussions with Mr Balanant, that I do believe that there is a natural law and that it should inspire us. There are rational elements, indispensable for the conservation of the human species, on which we can base our right. Whether this natural law is of religious origin or not, it is another debate, quite legitimate, but we can actually share this conception beyond our various belongings and thus base our right on this logic of natural law. This is our approach, once again, without any religious reference, even if it can be based on spiritual references, on a certain conception of man, a humanism, but again there is no religious consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u455	Identical Amendments Nos 140 by Mr Patrick Hetzel, 241 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 377 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u456	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 282.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u457	We will say that it is editorial, since it aims to correct a shell by replacing the word "to" with the word "by".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u458	[[Smile]] I'll vote in favour, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u459	You see, Mr. Breton, I'm just trying to be precise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u460	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 108, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns a subject that we have been discussing at length during the debate on the bioethics bill: the establishment of the filiation of children born to a GPA abroad. At that time, we agreed to refer to this adoption bill the task of securing the legal establishment of the filiation of these children, who must under no circumstances suffer the legal consequences of their design, whatever the mode. The purpose of this amendment is to replace, at the end of Article 47 of the Civil Code, the words "falsified or that the facts stated therein do not correspond to reality" with the word "falsified". This amendment would simplify the establishment of the civil status of children born to a GPA abroad, by removing a language that impedes the transcription of foreign acts. I recall that France, because of its firm position on this matter, has been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights – ECHR – mainly on the basis of Article 8 of the Convention, which concerns the right to respect for private and family life. Taking these convictions into account, France gradually relaxed its position on the matter, notably in a judgment delivered in plenary on 3 July 2015, which considered that a conception by GPA alone did not justify the refusal to transcribe to the French civil registry the foreign birth certificate of a child with a French parent. At present, the ECHR does not require the authorisation of GPA, of course. However, the Court requires that acts of States recognizing this method of establishing filiation between the mother of intent and the child born of a GPA be recognized as such. However, the current procedure for intra-family adoption does not respond. That is why I propose that you facilitate this transcript.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u462	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u463	In fact, you defended Amendment No 109, which was declared inadmissible. I am going to reply to Amendment No 108, which includes part of the operative part of your Amendment No 109. Indeed, this text does not deal with GPA, which is, I would remind you, prohibited in France. Nor is it intended to address the issue of recognition of GPAs abroad, since it is dealt with in the bioethics bill. The jurisprudence of the Paris judicial court on the recognition of GPA's foreign judgments, which you quote, is in fact isolated: it has never been confirmed, neither on appeal nor in cassation. Moreover, it far exceeds the role of the judge of exequatur: a foreign judgment which is sometimes not even a judgment of adoption cannot be assimilated to a judgment of full adoption. The mechanism you are proposing also seems to us to be opening up a way of misappropriating the adoption procedure. France has signed international commitments on adoption, the main objective of which is the protection of children. These international conventions guarantee the effectiveness of the controls and checks which are carried out by the central authorities of the country of the adopter, therefore of the adopted. The basis for the need for such control – that of the French judge in this case – in the adoption procedure is, of course, the interests of the child: the consideration of the child allows the judge to monitor both the breakdown of the relationship between the child and the biological mother and the establishment of the link with the family that wants to receive it. But your device prohibits any control by the French judge other than a formal control over the foreign judgment. The proposed wording leaves everything to be feared, in particular the direct incorporation into French law of judgments of convenience rendered in certain countries. This would make any control over intercountry adoptions illusory, since it would be easier to use a GPA convention than to follow the rules of the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoptions. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u464	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u465	It will also be an unfavourable opinion, particularly for the reason set out last by the rapporteur, which is almost the most serious: this would make illusory any control of intercountry adoption as provided for in the Hague Convention for the benefit of children. It's still an argument that has to challenge us. On the other hand, we did not make an appointment during the review of the bioethics bill to reopen this matter at the time of this text: it is quite tempting, Mr. Chiche, if I may say so, but it was I who was on the bench for most of these debates! We had made an appointment to deal with the issue of the opening of adoption to unmarried couples: this is what we have just done by adopting Article 2, which we all welcome – or at least a large part of us. But it is not a matter of reopening the debate on this issue, as I said earlier to Mr Gérard. The Government's position on this issue remains the same. You refer to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, but you have forgotten to quote the Court's last decision with regard to France: it recognises adoption as a possible way of establishing filiation, provided that the necessary speed is guaranteed, thus confirming French law on this point. The Government was and remains in that position. For all these reasons, this will be an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u466	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u467	It is important to remember that our country prohibits GPA, because there is an instrumentalization of women's bodies. That is why, not only are we of course in favour of respecting this ban in our country, but we are also campaigning for the universal abolition of GPA, and I believe that it is a fight that is beginning to bear fruit. I am against a decision of the Danish Supreme Court which is in line with the application of the Hague Convention. Similar judgments have been handed down in other countries, but by this decision, all the more interesting since it is recent – since it was dated 16 November – the Danish Court refuses to recognize the adoption of a child by a woman who had "ordered" it – there is no other word – to a Ukrainian surrogate mother, for remuneration. On that occasion, the Court recalled that Danish law prohibited adoption if a payment had been made in exchange for the child: it had therefore fully complied with the terms of the Hague Convention in its decision. [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] The decision is difficult for children who are taken hostage by militant associations, that is true, but the position of the Danish Supreme Court recalls that justice is there to enforce the rights of the child and that the GPA conventions violate its rights. Justice, in fact, sends a message to these children. She tells them that what they have suffered is not normal and that she does not endorse this mode of design. It is also a question of discouraging Danes – but it also applies to the French – from sponsoring GPAs in foreign countries, because we must protect children from this trade and absolutely discourage the exploitation of vulnerable women. I think it's a fight that can bring us together on all these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u468	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u469	We're not here to legislate on the GPA, but we're not here either to set out a value judgment on couples who can use it. We know, as we have said again during the examination of the bioethics bill, that it remains very generally prohibited in France, but we also know that the case law requires that a child born of a GPA can benefit from a double filiation, in the name of the interests of the child, to which it seems to me that you are very attached, Mr Breton. That is what the general measures to simplify the adoption that we are adopting, which will apply to all children, will allow. However, Mr. Chiche, I continue to find your proposal for automatic transcription wrong, which you had already defended in the bioethics debates. We reject this idea of automaticity because, as the Secretary of State has told you, it seems to us that this would open a dangerous breach in terms of intercountry adoption but also respect for the mother's initial consent. That is why we cannot go in your direction. I think that you should not be misleading the people who ask you about this: it is a solution that cannot be adopted in France; It is not legally tenable. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment, bearing in mind that all the improvements that we are voting for today in terms of adoption will benefit all and that the invitations of the Court of Cassation to secure the filiation of these children have been heard by the Chancellery: the Chancellery undertook during the examination of the bioethics bill to guarantee by circulars the effectiveness and speed of these procedures once the bioethics text would be definitively promulgated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u470	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u471	In the debate on the bioethics bill, we were able to recognize that the situation of absolute biological insecurity in which children found themselves, due to the length of the adoption process, was unacceptable. This bill had to solve the problem. I am sorry, but I do not feel that this will be the case, even if this text is in the right direction. Children will not see their filiation with their mother of intent established within a sufficiently short period of time. In my view, the establishment of filiation must be organized independently of the adoption processes. By construction, they are too long; During this time, the child is devoid of a bond of filiation with one of his or her parents. In response to Ms Dubost's intervention, a diplomatic note issued on 24 February by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, to the attention of the consular authorities, states that following two judgments of the Court of Cassation, issued on 18 December 2019, the prosecutor of the Republic of Nantes has issued new instructions on the transcription of the birth certificates of children born of GPA abroad: a full transcription of the birth certificate is now possible, provided that the foreign State of birth of the child has legalized the use of GPA, that the foreign birth certificate is regular, free of fraud and established in accordance with local law, and that the applicants provide evidence of the use of GPA. I therefore see a difference between what the Government is telling us on the bench and what it is intimate to do to the consular authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u472	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-04-O1106.u473	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to reform adoption. The meeting is adjourned.
