ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I remind you of the derogatory rules governing the organization of our questions to the Government: due to the health crisis, there are only a limited number of members of the Government and only one deputy per group; the questions with the same theme are grouped together, each of which is the subject of a specific answer; the number of questions is reduced. On the other hand, speaking time is the usual time: two minutes per question and as much by reply, reply and counter-replica, if any. In order to minimize the number of staff present, I should also like to remind you that the list of speakers of which you have heard is not displayed during the meeting. Finally, the health rules that have become customary continue to apply: cleaning the microphones during the session, with speakers being asked not to put their hands on the microphones and to use different microphones; respect for distance between participants; staggered entrances and exits. We begin our session with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, particularly on the topic of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u2	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u3	Prime Minister, I am asking you this question on behalf of all my colleagues in the Republican Group. It will be of a more general nature than that of health, if you will, Mr President. The President of the Republic has set a course. It was essential to give the French an end-of-containment horizon, showing them how their efforts, their vigilance and their sense of responsibility are beginning to pay off. But a preliminary clarification on the choice of the date of May 11 would have been welcome. I would also like to say here how pleased my colleagues and I are to see that the President has taken on board a number of measures that we have been demanding for many weeks. Yes, we must indeed show more humanity to all people at the end of their lives by allowing them, at a minimum, to say goodbye to their loved ones. Yes, we need to go much further in supporting the businesses and sectors most affected by the crisis by simply cancelling all their burdens during the containment period. Yes, we must put an end to the flaws, the failures, the slowness of your government in the distribution of masks and the generalization of screenings. However, there are still areas of shadow, and I will come back to that in my next questions. First of all, I will mention a matter of concern on which we expect specific answers: the announced reopening of crèches, schools, colleges and high schools – although it is necessary – legitimately worries many parents, while children are often asymptomatic vectors of the virus. What scientific argument justifies these reopenings throughout the country? Why first reopen the schools, which you had closed first? Are you ready to hold a real debate on this subject in front of the national representation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u4	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u5	Mrs Kuster, you ask a lot of questions in one, I'll try to answer you. First of all, I would point out that the decision, assumed, to proceed with the confinement has been taken, you may recall, to ensure that there are not many patients with severe symptoms to the point of completely saturating French hospitals in a position to accommodate those who need treatment in a resuscitation or intensive care service. That was the reason for containment: to curb the circulation of the virus so that our hospital system is not overwhelmed. Yet, even though he was subjected to extreme tension, he was not overwhelmed: he kept up thanks to the incredible commitment of those who made him live; It has held thanks to the treasures of imagination deployed by those who have made it possible to increase the reception capacity of these patients throughout the hospital system, allowing us to pass, as you know, to 10,000 resuscitation beds; Thanks to those who have organized transfers of patients between regions or abroad, it has been necessary, again, to de-naturalize and allow these patients to continue to receive them under acceptable conditions. This was the goal of containment and, I say with great caution, we are beginning to see the results: slowing down the number of admissions and slowly but surely reducing the number of patients admitted to resuscitation. But, once again, this observation calls for caution, as these results are only due to the fact that confinement is respected. Therefore, it is only natural that the decision to deconsolidate, which will have to be taken – the President of the Republic announced that he would intervene from 11 May – has a connection with the very reasons for the confinement, which I have just recalled. In other words, we believe that, by that date, we will have been able to reduce the number of patients in resuscitation and allow the hospital to regain its capacity, after the unprecedented stress due to the intensity of the first wave that it had to deal with. Yesterday, the President of the Republic set out principles, namely, health security and the continuity of the life of the nation, and objectives, in particular that of a gradual deconfination from 11 May. It is the responsibility of the Government to put in place the necessary instruments, methods, employment doctrine and coordination to achieve them. I am working with the entire Government and administration. We will, of course, do this in cooperation with trade unions and employers' organisations, as well as with local and regional authorities, because they are directly interested in the issue of progressive deconfinination. Yesterday, the President of the Republic also made exclusions: he has already indicated that it is not possible to reopen hotels, cafes and restaurants on the horizon of 11 May and that festivals could probably not be held by the end of July, because events that bring together a very dense crowd are obviously not possible at this stage. The Government will therefore have to implement public policies in such a way as to meet the objectives while respecting the principles recalled by the President of the Republic: it is a question of beginning the deconfination. The date of 11 May was mentioned; My goal is that the gradual deconfination takes place under the best conditions. The Minister of National Education has said that this deconfinination may result in an appropriate form of reopening schools, but I do not want to announce anything definitive on this point, since we are working on it. That being said, I do not rule out that schools should operate, after May 11, in a way somewhat different from normal – since we are not in a normal period, everyone can agree. I understand the impatience of all our fellow citizens, which you formulate in your own way, but the Government must study in detail, together with all the actors concerned, the best way of organising complex logistics to protect our fellow citizens while guaranteeing their health security – these are the principles that guide us – which indeed requires preparation work. Impatience is such that the Government is required to respond to each question, which seems to be the most interesting moment. The truth is that the President of the Republic asked the Government to prepare a comprehensive exit plan – he made it clear yesterday. I will have the opportunity to present this overall plan when it is ready, well before May 11. But this plan needs to be the subject of work and consultation with many players in order to be truly up to the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u6	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u7	Prime Minister, setting a date amounts to conjuring an end-of-the-world damnation or the damnation of an endless world. We can see, therefore, the full strength of such an announcement, but we can also see that, even with caution, as the President of the Republic has done, it raises as many questions as it brings answers. One of the major questions that arises today is that of our responsibility: is the date of May 11 too early? For some players, particularly in the economic world, it appears too late in view of its high economic cost; for others, concerned about human dignity and health – concerns that we share on every bench – it may prove too early. Paul Ricoeur said that to be responsible is to be responsible for what is fragile, for those who are fragile, and the Socialist and related group was one of the most up-to-date about these children for whom life has closed and those seniors who are confronted, in solitude, at the end. Our group is also concerned about what is fragile in the report of the public word to the truth. To remove any ambiguity, Prime Minister, can you tell us whether the doctrine of a deconfination from 11 May has been adopted despite the absence of tests, because we are convinced that asymptomatic people do not need to be tested? This is an extremely important issue. It has long been said that it is possible to be both asymptomatic and vector of the disease. Therefore, is there not a fundamental contradiction to want to bring together, on 11 May, the entire educational community, not only teachers, technicians and ATSEMs – the specialized territorial agents of kindergartens – but also children and adolescents? As far as testing is concerned, we would not like the rumour that doctrines are formed according to shortcomings and that they are adapted to the principle of reality rather than to the search for truth to spread even more. Can you be transparent and clear about this: does our country have the means to test the entire French population, so that 11 May is a meeting with health for all and that it is a sustainable health?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u8	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u9	Thank you for your question, Mr. Potier, because it allows me to mention the particular place that screening holds at the moment when the removal of confinement is being considered. We have had several times the opportunity to discuss the issues involved in these tests. I would like the elements of the discussion to be fully identified. The tests actually fall into two main categories: on the one hand, those that allow you to know, after swab sampling and PCR diagnosis – chain polymerisation reaction – by means of a technology platform, whether you are carrying the virus and therefore potentially ill, whether you are symptomatic or not; on the other hand, serology, which allows, from a blood analysis, to determine whether you have developed antibodies against the virus in you, which means that you are immune after having been sufficiently exposed to it, whether you have been symptomatic or not. The stake is twofold, and it is even greater when it comes to lifting confinement: it is necessary to be able to respond to French people who would legitimately wonder whether they have developed immunity, for lack of having been tested by PCR when they had symptoms, and to be able to immediately test people with suspected symptoms and close contacts – that is exactly what we did at stages 1 and 2 of the epidemic – in order to isolate anyone who could transmit the disease. The two tests therefore respond to different logics, but we continue each week after week. On the one hand, we are increasing our PCR capabilities, thanks to the installation of twenty broadband platforms and the purchase of millions of tests in France and abroad. On the other hand, we are getting serology equipment that has just arrived on the world market – they didn't exist a few days ago. We now have more reliable means of diagnosing people's immunity. I repeat, these are two separate but complementary tests, and we are strengthening our capabilities to be able to test massively when the time comes and thus meet the legitimate demand of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u10	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u11	Prime Minister, I am a little less worried than yesterday evening: the speech of the President of the Republic gave the impression that 11 May was an imperative, but since this morning I have heard the members of the Government speak of an objective and remind that the health conditions will obviously have to be respected, in the first place for the reopening of schools, knowing that it will concern 12.4 million pupils and all the staff – not only from the State but also from the local authorities – necessary to welcome them. Many questions arise. The schools, first closed, would be the first reopened? However, if they were the first closed establishments, it was probably because they raised the most concerns... Will it be mandatory? Will students be welcomed by group? Which regions will be affected? Will it be the least affected? What about eastern France and Île-de-France? I understand, Prime Minister, that you need to work on this. I therefore raise several questions that are useful for this work, in which we wish to be able to participate, perhaps in the form you have adopted for the exchanges between parliamentary groups and the Government. Is it essential to reopen nurseries and kindergartens, where it is impossible to respect and enforce barrier gestures? Who will make the opening decision? The mayors, the presidents of departmental councils, the presidents of regional councils or the state? This will naturally pose a problem of criminal responsibility. Should the operation of school canteens be ensured? Above all, will there be, on 11 May – or later, if that date were to be postponed – masks for children and teachers, enough freezing, in short, protective measures ensuring that after going to school, children, who can often be vectors without being affected by the disease, will not bring the virus home, which could then lead to a further explosion of the number of cases? I would also like to make a proposal: would it not be wiser to concentrate on the classes leading to an examination or conditioning the orientation of the pupils, which could probably be accommodated in the schools under more satisfactory sanitary conditions? To sum up, we have work ahead of us, and we want to be able to do it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u12	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u13	The importance attached to the reopening of schools does not escape anyone here, because school is obviously the place of learning. Since the closure of schools, the vast majority of children in our country have been able, thanks to the remarkable work of teachers, to continue their education, knowledge acquisition and work. We must thank all those who have made this continuity possible, first and foremost teachers. But you know, like me, Mr. Lagarde – and probably better than others, given the constituency in which you are elected – that because of social, territorial or family inequalities, or even the combination of these three factors, a number of children find themselves, in the present period, far more distant from the educational path, the acquisition of knowledge and the reflection. For these, the consequences of containment are both very strong and probably very long-lasting. That is why we must collectively ensure that the greatest number of our children are brought back to school, as the President of the Republic has pointed out. This imperative is very real. It must, of course, be combined with the need to preserve the health of our citizens by ensuring respect for the absolutely decisive health rules that we think of at every moment. That is the work that awaits us. I know that some commentators sometimes imagine that everything should be stopped, as if it were coming out of the thigh...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u14	[[Smile]] From Jupiter!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u15	[[Smile]] You're the one who said it! As if it came out, at least, all armed with his head. The truth is that if we want to respond in an intelligent and effective way to the need for a return to school, we must do so, as you pointed out, with the mayors, the teachers and all those who participate in school life. We must do so in an ingenious way, by guaranteeing the means of protection and by ensuring that we can really adapt the organisation of the day or the places of education to rules that allow both to run in the best possible conditions and to guarantee health safety. All this requires not only a general policy, which we will define, but also local adaptations, to which we must work with the prefects, the sub-prefects, the mayors, the administration of national education and, of course, the teachers. It'll take time. I know we live in a world where everyone would like everything to work in one click, but things, as we know, don't happen that way. We're working. We are doing this, as I had committed myself to doing, in good intelligence with the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, with whom you can attest to a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u16	And sincere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u17	Thank you for saying that! That is how we will progress and succeed in finding the right solutions, always bearing in mind the dual imperative of health security – the preservation of the health of our fellow citizens – and the continuity of the life of the nation. It's not just about ensuring the continuity of the nation's life: it's about our ability to save future generations from the too strong and lasting consequences of a drop-out or distance from school. We must therefore reconcile these two imperatives, in good intelligence and in an effective manner. It won't be easy, I'll give it to you, but that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u18	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u19	I fully agree with you, Prime Minister: we must organize things. But it is urgent to do so: May 11 will arrive in just over three weeks. Until then, of course, we need to know how to organize ourselves in the territories. To take a very specific example, if some schools reopen on Monday 11 May – which we all wish – the parents of students who accompany the children will have to have a mask themselves to protect themselves, since they will all go in front of the school at the same time, in a group, as they usually do every morning and every evening. Many practical questions arise, and we must be able to respond quickly. In the same way, the President of the Republic announced yesterday that some businesses could reopen on 11 May. We need to know how these traders and their employees will be able to make these reopenings, and under what conditions. I also want to question the Minister of Solidarity and Health about the tests. The President of the Republic referred to tests for French people with symptoms. So he wasn't talking about serological tests. We must clarify this point, because we cannot envisage the deconfinination of our fellow citizens without mobilising the two batteries of tests, that is to say both those which allow us to know whether a person is sick and the serological tests, which allow us to know whether they have been. The fact that the President of the Republic has mentioned only one type of test is of some concern to us. Apart from the question of testing, the President's speech inspired me a single regret: while he spoke a lot about mayors, he seemed to forget the presidents of the departmental and regional councils, who were exemplary during this period and who we will need to emerge victorious in this fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u20	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u21	I have already had the opportunity to speak on the question of testing. The President of the Republic is right to insist on the need to test any symptomatic person with PCR – this is the test in which swab sampling is carried out and then transmitted to the laboratory. We need to know if anyone with symptoms is ill and therefore likely to contaminate other people, in order to isolate them if they are tested positive for the virus. We were already doing so at stage 1 of the epidemic; There's nothing new here. There is a new element, however: as research progresses, we will have serological tests, which will provide another type of response. As you point out, if a person has symptoms, he or she does not need a serological test, but a test to determine if he or she carries the virus and is therefore contagious. Things are getting organized. No country is ahead of us, simply because serological tests – to name but one example – did not exist anywhere. Those that were developed were still at the experimental stage. Some companies have also rushed to market them, but the purchasing countries have unfortunately found that they do not meet the specificity or sensitivity criteria required, or that they do not meet either of the two criteria. You are right to stress the major role of local elected officials, whether they are mayors or presidents of departments. I had, more than in my turn, the opportunity to welcome the action of the president of the Association des départements de France, Dominique Bussereau, who accompanies us, for example, in the strategy of systematic screening in the EHPADs – accommodation establishments for dependent elderly people – from the first suspicion of cases. It is normal to rely on local authorities, as it was normal to help those regions that, after having ordered masks or other protective material abroad – particularly in China – encountered significant difficulties in delivering this material. Every time we have been asked, the diplomatic or transport services have responded present – my colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebari, Secretary of State for Transport, could testify – to accompany local elected officials in their efforts to import equipment into the national territory. National unity is also evident in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u22	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u23	Last night, the President of the Republic addressed all the French to announce that, from 11 May, the Government was going to organize the reopening of schools and that "it will also be necessary to allow as many people as possible to return to work". The date of 11 May therefore appears as the beginning of the end of the present confinement. This is a risky and risky strategy that raises many questions. First, how was this date set? What is the opinion of the Scientific Council, which was not even mentioned last night by the President of the Republic? Why was there no adversarial debate on the relevance of this deadline and on the planning of the accompanying health system in the National Assembly? This ultra-presidentialism of speech does not, in my view, correspond to the needs of the current period or to the context of political crisis. Above all, what tools will you use to avoid the massive spread of a second wave of the epidemic, whose risks would be significant? Why don't you plan to generalize serological tests, first of all offering them to those who are invited to resume their professional activity? Why limit testing to those with symptoms, when we all know that we can carry the virus asymptomatically? Why put teachers, school staff and children at risk? You are unable to tell under what sanitary conditions the school reception can take place. Without tests or masks, who will send his children to school, except those who are forced to do so for professional reasons? Why put all employees at risk? Currently, 30 per cent of them continue to visit their workplaces, and employers are not able to provide adequate protection to all. You have still not defined the so-called essential sectors. Anyway, we have the feeling that you're responding to a MEDEF injunction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u24	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u25	... who tells us "business first", while the French aspire to health first. Let's face it, you've made a lot of mistakes since the beginning of this crisis. Many government statements have been erroneous or contradicted by the facts. Can you tell us more about the date of May 11th? Be aware that there is a great deal of mistrust in the country with regard to this decision: the feeling is that your main objective is to get many of our fellow citizens back to work without the necessary health conditions yet being met.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u26	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u27	If the President of the Republic had not set a date, you would not have failed to congratulate him – I have no doubt for a second – and you would not have asked us when we intended to answer the questions of the French by giving them perspectives... Since you are calling me into question the choice of this date, you should be aware that it is in no way a matter of purely economic logic, contrary to what is implied by the shortcut that you make between two segments of sentence pronounced by the President of the Republic. [[Mr. Alexis Corbière acquiesce]] I listened very carefully to the President. He began by talking about unbearable social inequalities and the fundamental role of schools in ensuring the training of children, in transmitting learning to them and in enabling them to evolve in society. I'm sure you're sensitive to these arguments, Mr. Corbière. He also stressed the need to give the French the opportunity to find prospects for social, economic and, tomorrow, cultural development. He finally announced that certain activities – restaurants, bars, etc. – would be excluded from the recovery which will take place on 11 May. The President of the Republic has therefore set a general framework, set a date and set a course, which everyone here has welcomed – as, for example, the question posed by Mrs Kuster. The Prime Minister has outlined in detail the conditions that must now be met to enable us to keep this course. The parliamentary debate will take place. First, we exchange in the Chamber every week. In addition, there will be a debate on the use of a digital tool to combat the spread of the virus in the national territory. The President of the Republic also indicated that yesterday. As far as testing is concerned, I have already answered twice. Even if we had 60 million PCR tests, testing the entire population at a given date would not indicate any health status after screening. Tests do not constitute the alpha and omega of health policy. On the other hand, symptomatic persons and contact persons should be tested. This is recommended by the World Health Organization, WHO, and is what all the most advanced countries are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u28	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u29	Last night, the President of the Republic paved the way for a lifting of confinement on 11 May, without really raising concerns or giving sufficient guarantees regarding the health and social conditions of the post-crisis situation. This weekend, the president of MEDEF proposed that the French should work more from the end of the confinement. These unworthy words are, you will agree, not at the height of the episode that our country is experiencing and attest to the state of mind of some, ready to make employees pay for the economic consequences of this unprecedented crisis. The health of each of our compatriots must take precedence over any other consideration. It is not acceptable for employees to continue to visit their workplace without the necessary protective equipment. What will happen in four weeks? Will the State be able to provide tests and masks to ensure the health security of all employees? This crisis reveals the significant social inequalities in the world of work – you mentioned it, Prime Minister. The most exposed employees are often the least well paid. Many others suffer a significant loss of purchasing power due to partial unemployment compensated at 84% of net wages and rising consumer prices. If last night's announcement by the President of the Republic of targeted aid for modest families and students goes in the right direction, that is far from enough. For the most fragile, deconfinity must be accompanied by strong actions in the areas of health security, purchasing power and solidarity. Social benefits should be increased without further delay, partial unemployment should be better compensated and SMIC should be significantly increased. Prime Minister, when are you going to put these proposals on the agenda?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u30	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u31	Thank you for pointing out, Mrs Buffet, the Head of State announced yesterday that a premium would be granted to people living in precarious situations, families and students facing extremely difficult social conditions. This premium, whose contours will be clarified shortly, will enrich all the mechanisms that the Government has already put in place, without delay, to protect the most fragile. I could draw up a very long list for you. I will only remind you that the social benefits have been extended automatically – without the beneficiaries having to prove once again their status as entitled – and that the winter truce has been extended and that very important support is being given to associations acting on the ground, under difficult conditions. You are also giving me the opportunity to thank them very sincerely for their determined efforts to protect the most vulnerable, including the homeless and migrants. Social workers and social educators, in particular, provide absolutely remarkable work; Engaged since the first day, they never failed. Mrs Buffet, since the first day of this pandemic, health has been the Government's only compass for all the decisions that have been made. It is also the major criterion on which the speech delivered yesterday by the President of the Republic, at the time of approaching the future deconfinity, was based. The President spoke about the saturation of resuscitation services, the overload of hospitals and the absolute need to remain confined, in the best possible conditions, for several more weeks, in order to enable our caregivers to recover strength, energy, medicines, beds, masks and protective equipment. Finally, tests and masks are important, but we will not believe that they constitute the alpha and omega of the health policy of prevention or intervention in times of epidemics in our country. This policy covers a much wider field, and I would like to commend in this regard the remarkable achievement made by our hospitals to transform, transcend and thus save thousands of lives in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u32	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u33	This question, which I am asking again on behalf of all my colleagues in the Republican Group, is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The extension of confinement seems wise, but it prolongs the anxiety of all the entrepreneurs and the independents of our country, who fear cascading bankruptcies with disastrous consequences for employment. The President of the Republic has just taken up the proposal, which we made on behalf of the Republican Group, to cancel the burdens of the most affected companies, and to extend and simplify the existing arrangements. We welcome this initiative, as well as the willingness to encourage insurance to do much more to save SMEs and TPEs threatened by heavy operating losses. Such gestures are obviously welcome but will not be sufficient to preserve our economic fabric. Indeed, cafes, hotels and restaurants learned yesterday that they would remain closed after 11 May. Is the Minister of Economy and Finance ready to put on the table a major support plan for the tourism sector as a whole, including cafes, hotels and restaurants, but also for the event sector, whose actors also need visibility as to their reopening date? What is the planned timetable? Finally, we need to change the scale of state support for our highly threatened economic activity. I will take the example of Germany, which guarantees 100% bank loans. It also provides for aid to small businesses and SMEs of up to EUR 15000, while France's aid is, as you know, five times lower. Finally, I would like to remind you that Germany will inject EUR 200 billion to support its industry, when we have only planned an envelope of EUR 20 billion. The account isn't there. Is the Government ready to go much further to support our country's businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u34	To answer this question, which is not about health, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u35	You are right, Mrs Kuster, the plan that we have put in place is developing and strengthening. The amending finance bill that you will be voting on in the coming days is intended to complement the first PLFR. In total, almost EUR 110 billion is available to all small businesses, but also to companies in all sectors of activity – industry, tourism and catering, among others – and to associations, in order to minimise social disruption. I would remind you that 900000 companies benefit from a first cheque of EUR 1500 thanks to the solidarity fund. But, as you know, they will also be entitled, as of 15 April, to an additional EUR 2000. For the month of April, they will be able to benefit again from a cheque of 1500 euros and an additional amount of up to 5000 euros, if you adopt our proposals. Added to each other, this aid will amount, for some companies, to EUR 10000, an important sum for a TPE. We spend EUR 24 billion on financing partial unemployment. In comparison with those of our European neighbours – you mentioned Germany, but we could mention other countries – our system is very favourable. It helps to maintain the link between the employee and the company. The aim is to protect employees so that they are present at the time of recovery. To answer clearly, there will indeed be a specific plan. This noon, I spoke with the UMIH, the Union of Trades and Industries of the Hotel Industry, about the basics of this plan, which must be deployed in three stages. First of all, it consists of providing answers very quickly so that the managers of these companies do not despair and do not file the balance sheet. It is then a question of enabling them to resume their activities in a very secure manner, which we are working on. Finally, they will have to be supported in the longer term, given the specificities of their activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u36	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u37	Our ultramarine colleagues cannot reach the metropolis, it is on behalf of Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, MPs for New Caledonia, and Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer, MPs for French Polynesia, that I address you, Prime Minister. The Covid-19 pandemic also reached – to a lesser degree than in metropolitan France, fortunately – the French communities in the Pacific. Fifty-five cases have been confirmed to date in Polynesia and eighteen in New Caledonia. This is why local institutions have decided, in connection with the State, to extend the confinement until 19 April for New Caledonia and until 29 April for Polynesia. The consequences of the pandemic in those territories, which were terrible in economic terms, touched the very heart of their main activity: tourism for Polynesia, the nickel industry for New Caledonia. Your Government has provided these communities with national arrangements, including access to the solidarity fund and state guarantees for loans to businesses. None of these two territories, however, is covered by the payment of compensation for partial unemployment schemes decided at national level, since these communities, which are competent in this field, have introduced their own partial unemployment schemes. My colleagues therefore draw your attention to the following two problems. First, in terms of health, New Caledonia, and probably French Polynesia a little later, should embark on a strategy of defining earlier than the other French regions, including the overseas departments. Today, however, these communities do not have enough masks to organize this deconfination under the conditions defined by the President of the Republic last night. Can you commit yourself to giving them the material means necessary for a deconfination that guarantees the health security of the people? Secondly, on the economic front, New Caledonia and French Polynesia must soon sign the State-guaranteed cash loans, which will, inter alia, provide compensation to the unemployed. But as a result of these loans, the debt of these communities will reach an extremely high level. Consequently, they will not be able to finance the necessary economic recovery plans, since, unlike the state, local authorities have an obligation to present balanced budgets. As a matter of national solidarity, could the Government commit itself to transforming those loans into exceptional financial assistance granted to those territories? Can France do for our 600,000 Pacific citizens what it already does for 70 million French?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u38	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u39	You are asking me about the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic on the ultramarine territories of the Pacific: Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna and New Caledonia. First of all, I would like to point out that none of these territories is, and is happy, at stage 3 of the epidemic. Although there are cases in each of these territories, it has been possible to contain them, which is excellent news. From the beginning of the epidemic, we took care, while the presence and circulation of the virus in these territories were much less obvious, to take containment measures to preserve them, since we know that they are intrinsically more fragile, given the remoteness and weaknesses that can be observed in their hospital system and, more generally, in their care system. This epidemic obviously has, as is the case throughout the world, an impact on local economies, which, in Polynesia, are essentially based on the tourism sector and, in New Caledonia, on the mining industry, particularly that of nickel. We made the decision very early – and how could it have been otherwise? – to ensure that national solidarity is fully exploited with regard to our overseas citizens. That is why we have accompanied the efforts of the local hospital systems, which has been to increase their capacity. We have thus replicated in the ultramarine territories, whatever their status, the strategy developed at the national level. In the same way, we will try to provide the maximum necessary equipment to the overseas territories, while respecting a specificity: as you know, jurisdiction is often attributed to the territories, the state can support them but not replace them, under the penalty of raising questions that would go far beyond the management of the epidemic. I confirm to you that the draft law on amending finance, presented tomorrow in the Council of Ministers and discussed this Friday in the National Assembly, will contain a provision allowing the State to guarantee the borrowings made by the territory of New Caledonia in order to establish an accompanying arrangement equivalent to that of partial unemployment which we know of in metropolitan France. This is anything but anecdotal, since it will allow the territory to exercise its jurisdiction in this matter, without the State replacing it – which is important, and perhaps even more so in New Caledonia than elsewhere. You are asking me whether this loan guarantee should be transformed, at any time, into a mechanism that would be the direct financing by the community of the provisions established by the territory of New Caledonia. This question may be raised at the appropriate time, but you understand that our objective is to respond very quickly to a request made very clearly by the representatives of those Territories: this guarantee will clearly enable New Caledonia to quickly put in place the mechanism in question, under assured conditions of financing. You know that the balance of social accounts in this territory was not fully achieved – it is still not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u40	This will only make the situation worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u41	The guarantee will compensate for this risk and make it possible to move forward. As for the consequences of this health crisis and its impact on French Polynesia, New Caledonia or Wallis and Futuna, in terms of accounts, financial relations or the organization of public authorities, the issue must be addressed, but it is premature to do so today. I would add that if we look at it in one aspect rather than in a global way, we run the risk of having a somewhat unbalanced view. You know that, as I do, it is important to have a perfectly balanced and, if possible, consensual vision in these territories if we are to move far.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u42	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u43	Representative of the nation, I rode a long time, from my Occitan lands, to come deliver you several messages. I first came to tell you the pain of the bereaved families, the terrible anguish of the relatives of the sick, the fear of being abandoned by the most fragile – they are sometimes, unfortunately, indeed abandoned. The most vulnerable physically, socially and economically are on the front line, in France, in all European countries, as well as in our closest neighbours to the African continent. I would like to report back to you the support and encouragement to the initiatives and the unremitting mobilization of the daily fighters, caregivers, volunteers and other essential actors, those who are applauded every evening at 8:00 p.m., and to convey to you all the admiration they arouse. In turn, the scientific community has set itself in order of battle alongside the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, in order to bring about the first solutions to deal with the crisis of the coronavirus. But that is not enough. At a time of great distrust, we need confidence. At a time of plunge into the unknown, we need transparency in political decisions. At the time of a single speech, we also need a real democratic debate. [[Murmures on Government benches]] Prime Minister, I cannot resolve to see Twitter, BFMTV and the "Quotidien" program replace Condorcet, Jaurès and Simone Veil. The little Member of Parliament I am asking you to tell the President of the Republic that we must quickly convene an extraordinary congress in Versailles, bringing together all the representative forces of the nation, based on the climate convention. How can we use our collective intelligence to recognize our mistakes and make them a force? How can we protect the weakest and with which tax system? How can we reconcile health and freedom in the digital age? How can the economy be revived without continuing to attack our environment? How to change governance? How can we move towards governance that would serve the public interest and avoid the predation of the planet's resources? Prime Minister, beating the heart of democracy has almost stopped. Will you tell the President of the Republic that today's debate will build tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u44	The National Assembly, in any case, continues to work, monitor the Government, evaluate public policies and adopt legislation. I would add that the meeting of a congress would break the threshold beyond which it is forbidden to meet, that is, fifty people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u45	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u46	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u47	I think the president said everything. You will understand that the organisation of a congress in Versailles, bringing together more than 900 parliamentarians, would not be understandable to the population and would not be acceptable to the parliamentarians themselves, nor to all the officials who would be mobilised. On the other hand, you are right to want the heart of democracy to continue to beat fast. The presence of the Prime Minister at each question-and-answer session in the Government, in the Assembly and in the Senate, week after week, demonstrates that this is the case. Another example is the lengthy debate we have had in both chambers on the state of health emergency. I am also thinking of the announcement by the President of the Republic of a democratic – and therefore parliamentary – debate on digital tools to help fight the epidemic. I could go on with the list, but because I want to say everything, we're in danger of getting bored, Descartes said. However, in the course of the past week alone, the Prime Minister has organized several meetings in audio-conference or video-conference, to which I had the chance to attend, one with the presidents of all political parties, another with the presidents of the associations of local and regional authorities, another with the presidents of the parliamentary groups... I assure you that the place – legitimate – given in our agenda to national representation and elected representatives seems to me to guarantee the proper functioning of the institutions. I suggest you observe parliamentary activity in some of our neighbours, Mr Nadot, and you will see that not only does France not have to blush, but that it can boast, in this period, of the constant functioning of its institutions – I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u48	Thank you, Minister. We continue with questions on economic and social issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u49	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u50	I have reversed the order of my questions, and I beg your pardon, Mr. President. Having dealt with an economic issue earlier, I would now like to ask a question on the subject of health. The Government will not be mad at me, especially since the Minister of Solidarity and Health is still present. Even if you have answered in part, Minister, let me ask you a question about the screening policy, which several of my colleagues wanted to ask you, in particular Michèle Tabarot and Bernard Brochand. While the coronavirus has already killed 15,000 people in France, the diagnosis by the tests is sorely lacking, many of us have stressed it, and we are therefore wondering about your screening strategy. Unfortunately, we are reliving, with the tests, the same lack of anticipation and the same situation of shortage that we have experienced with the protective masks. We call for systematic screening across EHPADs, both for staff and residents. That is essential, and that must be the priority. Last night, unfortunately, the President of the Republic did not mention it. The situation in the EHPADs is a scandal, of which the President does not seem to be sufficiently aware.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u51	Pff...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u52	Nearly 5,000 people died of coronavirus, and some settlements are decimated by frightening waves of death. Moreover, in the absence of massive screening in the immediate future, the strategy of systematic isolation leads to situations of loneliness or even absolute distress. So the possibility of allowing visits again, announced yesterday, is good news. We have another concern. After 11 May, the President planned to test only the French who would show symptoms of Covid-19. Worse, he said that testing all the French would make no sense. We are deeply concerned about such statements, while a significant proportion of people affected by coronavirus, as we know, do not have any symptoms. This refusal of massive screening...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u53	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u54	...is all the more surprising as serological tests prove to be extremely reliable...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u55	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u56	I had the opportunity to reply three times that it was not necessary to test all those who had no symptoms. I would like to insist on this by taking your example, Mrs. Kuster. Let's imagine that you wanted a PCR test for yourself when you had no symptoms and you didn't know anyone in your immediate family who was ill. Let us imagine that we are able to carry out 60 million PCR tests a day, which, by the way, no country in the world would be capable of, or even all countries combined. Let's imagine that I'll answer you in the affirmative. You have no symptoms, you have not been in contact with sick people and at the end of the test you are negative; It was expected. The next day, will you come back to me, after taking the bus, walking down the street or shopping, to find out if you haven't become positive? And the next day too? That makes no sense, Mrs Kuster, and the President of the Republic was right to say so. This is what is fundamental: if you have fever, cough, or if someone close to you is sick and there is a legitimate indication that you are yourself ill, we will have to be able to test you and, if you are actually ill, to isolate you. Finally, let us stop constantly comparing the situation of France with that of other States. First, we are the only country to communicate all the data we have in full transparency. We even provide incomplete test data: if you visit the Public Health France website, you will see that the figures are based on a survey of three city laboratories, while seventy laboratories do tests. It is therefore very likely that France carries out between 150000 and 200000 tests – that is, much more than we say ourselves, but we prefer to clearly indicate the data available to us. In Germany, between 250,000 and 300,000 tests are performed. We are increasing and will continue to increase our capacity to perform PCR tests in the coming weeks. The challenge is to be ready to detect any symptomatic person. I hope I convinced you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u57	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u58	I wish, on behalf of the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, to express our support and solidarity with our fellow citizens, who are on the front line day and night. We also have a very moved thought for all the victims of this disease, and I am thinking in particular of my Alsatian friend Bernard Stalter, president of the national network of chambers of trades and crafts; Bernard died yesterday of the Covid -19, he was 63 years old. Prime Minister, I am reading to you the question of the chairman of our group, Patrick Mignola. On 22 March, we voted for a major plan to enable our country's economy, justice and solidarity system to cope with the health crisis we face. These first measures have already borne fruit: employees who are prevented from working are partially unemployed and will be able to return to their jobs after the crisis; self-employed people have an emergency resource; companies have the means to cope with their cash flow difficulties. Of course, the measures adopted need to be improved, and much remains to be done to adapt them to many specific situations, so that they are accessible to all. Much remains to be done, for example, for banks and insurance to play better, for the solidarity fund to be strengthened, for the guarantee of loans by the State to be granted regardless of the situation of companies. Yesterday, the President of the Republic invited us to complete this first arsenal so that everyone, whatever their situation, could benefit from the most effective support. No one will be forgotten, this is the fundamental message for our compatriots. That is why our group will support the Government in strengthening and implementing these measures. This is also the role of national representation, each Member being called on, regardless of his or her bench, to express his or her experience and feelings. In accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic, we have two weeks to design the post-11 May exit plan. But before this deadline, we must be concerned about the coming days. My question will therefore be twofold, Prime Minister: how do you intend to implement the solidarity measures announced yesterday, in particular those concerning the most modest families? By what means do you think you can make all the tools provided for in the ordinances even more effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u59	It is not because there are fewer of us, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you has to express itself more systematically...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u60	Only the Prime Minister has the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u61	Indeed, I note a few small slippages. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u62	I also take it for myself, Mr. President... You are referring, Mr Fuchs, to the necessary support of the nation for those of its actors who are most affected by the crisis. The truth is that almost everyone is affected by the crisis, by sanitary confinement, by pain, by anguish, by mourning sometimes. And everyone feels that the economic impact of confinement, that the terrible shock on French and global demand that will follow it will be felt by non-citizens, by companies, by their employees, by the liberal and independent professions, by the artisans, by the artists, by the professionals of the living show, what do I still know? Anyway, everybody. The initial objective of the Government was to enable the largest number of economic actors to survive during the period of containment. It is strong from the experience of the great financial crisis of 2008 – probably too little, even though the Government has often repeated it – that we have designed the mechanism of partial activity. Thus, partial unemployment compensation is the most generous in Europe, and that is a fact. Indeed, we learned from the crisis of 2008 – and the situation was then dreadfully complicated too, in a way – that we should not repay companies, when the time came, for the advances they would have made during the crisis, but rather allow them to go through the crisis as best they could in order to retain their skills and then restart their activity. Basically, in 2008, the Germans knew better than we did how to preserve their productive capacity, thanks to a mechanism that was more generous than ours. On the occasion of the current health crisis, we wanted to protect ourselves against this disadvantage and to create this system, which is indeed the most generous. It is also generous not only for companies, but also for employees, since their net remuneration is certainly falling, but remains at a level far above what prevails elsewhere, particularly in Germany. In addition to this partial unemployment mechanism, the Solidarity Fund is very successful. Is he perfect? No. Does it allow any company that benefits from it to say that there is no more problem? No, of course not. But it exists, it is incredibly solicited and it gives a number of companies, it is true, a puff of oxygen that allows them to hold during confinement. These measures will be further developed. The amending finance bill that will be introduced tomorrow in the Council of Ministers and considered next Friday by your assembly will allow for an even greater amount of appropriations, as part of an expanded arrangement that includes some improvements. I am thinking, for example, of the plethora of funds from the Economic and Social Development Fund, which will help companies who would otherwise find themselves in difficult situations. The impact is therefore maximum for companies, our will to preserve them is total. Yesterday, the President of the Republic said that our citizens, especially the poorest and most fragile of them – the unemployed at the end of their rights, the beneficiaries of the RSA, the income of active solidarity, families with several children whose parents work and find themselves with very little means – must also be accompanied to bear the impact of the confinement. An envelope provided for in the draft law on amending finance will be devoted to this support. After having passed all the provisions in question by the Council of Ministers – you will understand, I hope, that I have to start with this before giving you the details – I will present the contents to the national representation and the general public. In any case, we are fully aware of the need for this assistance: the President of the Republic has requested its payment without delay and our objective is to ensure that the most vulnerable families and individuals can benefit from it by mid-May; It is a matter of ensuring that this happens quickly and well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u63	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u64	As we know, we will not all get out of confinement equally, whether it takes place on 11 May or later. Those who fight on a daily basis with people who suffer, in EHPADs, charitable associations or trade unions, express it most forcefully: they tell us how much, despite the charity actions, the commitment and professional awareness of many actors, inequalities will be exacerbated at the end of the confinement. There is something indecent, an attack on what George Orwell called "common decency", in the words of the MEDEF president, who, in a way, puts the French workers to make efforts and warns them that they will have to work more and differently in the years to come. The effect of setbacks is terrible, while millions of our compatriots fear for their purchasing power or employment and others fall down to the poverty line. I repeat, there is something deeply indecent about this. All the periods of rupture that made our society grow were preceded by significant movements of justice. I'm not talking about charity, I'm talking about justice. In order to convince oneself of this, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 27 August 1789, quoted yesterday by the President of the Republic, was preceded on 4 August by the abolition of privileges. Rather than calling for a new effort in the country, the time is more for the abolition of privileges! I am also thinking of another important time, that of the happy days of the National Council of the Resistance: all the statements that emanate from it, between March 1944 and May 1945, refer to social justice in order to reshape our society. That is the speech we need to hear right now. The President of the Republic invited us to know "reinvent us". Listen to our proposals: we do not need charity but justice so that the effort does not simply serve to rebuild, but that it allows us to rebuild our society, our economy, our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u65	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u66	Mr Potier, we need justice and cohesion. It is the unity of the nation to overcome this ordeal that will make us succeed. As far as the situation of companies and work is concerned, every two days we have a telephone meeting with the social partners to discuss the health and safety of workers, partial unemployment, but also working conditions and return to work. I welcome the spirit of responsibility of all the social partners on this subject. On the ground, recovery is gradual and measured, depending on the health and safety arrangements put in place sector by sector. For example, the industry is running at 50%; The construction sector has increased from 15 % to 25 % of activity. This is still very modest, but it will obviously increase after the de-consolidation – especially as health and safety issues are addressed. What does this mean for working hours? Some sectors are in short supply. In the automotive industry, for example, the challenge is not to work more, but to know when the activity will start again – we cannot produce thousands of cars that not a Frenchman will buy. Nevertheless, still in the automotive sector, teams are working on the repairs and maintenance needed to keep ambulances running and to ensure that food supplies are delivered. Other sectors are organized on the ground through social dialogue – this is the key word – and negotiate to take paid leave, days of RTT or time-saving account during confinement, so that, when the time comes, if necessary, they can return stronger. This is not decided from above, since Paris. The social and economic dialogue offers all the useful tools, the objective being obviously to provide the French with the goods and services they need, by ensuring that the workers are involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u67	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u68	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance. We are about to consider a second amending budget, which must adapt the emergency business aid arrangements. As we said, these devices are necessary, but we have also noted the weakness of some envelopes and pointed to shortcomings. Adjustments will obviously be made, which is a good thing, to extend the state's bank guarantee or to increase the funds of the solidarity fund. These developments are all the more necessary since difficulties remain on the ground, for example for companies to access guaranteed loans – most often because of the banks' attitude – to the solidarity fund or to partial unemployment. There will be a recovery plan in the near future. We believe that it should give priority to the social, environmental and economic sovereignty dimensions. However, between the emergency plan and the recovery plan, your arsenal lacks a rescue plan for the most affected sectors, which will have undergone four months of closure: the hotel, the catering, the culture and the event. Of course, yesterday the President of the Republic referred to a specific plan; It is positive, but there is an urgent need to clarify this. Will this plan include cancellations of charges and rent subsidies? As far as the method is concerned, will you choose a consultation with economic actors, professional organisations, parliamentarians, but also local authorities? In rural areas, it was often the latter that enabled the small businesses concerned to emerge and survive. The announced disappearance of these small businesses marks the collapse of 30 years of spatial planning. To save them, we consider it essential to cover the loss of exploitation. Is the State in a position to require insurance to participate in such care? If he fails to do so, does he consider supporting a dedicated fund on his own? In addition, the companies in question will often need several weeks to restart the work tool. For those, many, who depend on the summer season, the announcement of the reopening should not be delayed; otherwise, you have to prepare for a white year... or rather a black year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u70	Mr Pupponi, an emergency plan is in force, as you mentioned. It already works and supports 900000 TPEs. In addition, a recovery plan is being prepared. Between the two, it will be necessary to accompany companies in great difficulty, because they no longer have turnover, they have little prospect of doing so for the next four months and they encounter difficulties in meeting their fixed charges. We're working on it. How? First, we have expanded the conditions of access for companies whose financial situation is fragile: companies in difficulty whose rating by the Banque de France is greater than 5+ must be able to access the support arrangements. This has been the subject of negotiations with the European Union, and you will have to comment on this in the coming days. Then we activated a €1 billion envelope for the FDES, the economic and social development fund. The Commission, whose appropriations so far amounted to EUR 75 million, is expanding its resources to provide massive support to firms in difficulty, especially the smallest of them. Part of the envelope will be delegated to the DIRECCTE, the Regional Directorates of Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment, which work in good intelligence with the local authorities – they work primarily with the regions, to manoeuvre in economic development, which have already planned measures to accompany these enterprises. Finally, we are preparing the reopening. As the Minister of Labour has said, each sector of activity has its reopening plan: this will obviously be the case in the hotel-restaurant sector. Work has begun; The reopening is probably not for now, but we will work on it as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u72	With regard to insurance, here too, we are deepening our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u73	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u74	In recent days, statements by members of the Government about post-conflict situations have been of particular concern to our fellow citizens. On April 11, Ms.Agnès Pannier-Runacher said: "We will probably have to work more than we did before. Bruno Le Maire felt that it was "preferable for our economy to restart in the aftermath of the crisis" to leave during confinement. I would point out that the President of the MEDEF felt that the question of working time, holidays and paid leave "should be asked sooner or later" in order to accompany the crisis. It is true that a few minutes ago, the latter fortunately considered that the debate was closed – in any case from his point of view. Madam Minister of Labour, what is your opinion on your colleagues' statements? Do you agree with Mr Geoffroy Roux de Bézieux that this debate is closed? What do you think of the fact that employees could be invited to work more and lose the days of leave they would have been forced to take during the confinement period, under the exceptional conditions we know? The next world can't be the one now getting worse, or it's that, frankly, you haven't understood what's happening and what many of our fellow citizens are feeling. Employees cannot be victims of double punishment, suffering both the economic and social ill-choices of successive governments – yours as well as the previous ones – and the reparation of mistakes for which they are only the victims and not the responsible ones. It is with a selfish and unequal world that we must break. Twenty years ago, CAC 40 companies distributed 30% of their profits to their shareholders; they now distribute 70% of them. The remuneration of the shareholders of these companies has increased four times as much as that of the employees: they work forty-five days a year to pay the shareholders, compared with only nine days in 1981. Anyway! Are we going to break up with this world? Will we commit ourselves to a new sharing of wealth? President Macron said we need to "get out of ideologies, reinvent ourselves." Will the Government's reinvention rhyme with longer working days and less leave?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u75	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u76	Mr Corbière, to sum up, you are asking two questions: that of working time and that of sharing value. First of all, in order to be able to resume economic activity, which is currently very slow – it has even ceased in some companies – priority is given to the health and safety conditions of workers; It is good to repeat it, even if it was not the subject of your question. On this subject, the services of the Ministry of Labour, in particular the Labour Inspectorate, are very involved, and the social partners report the aberrant cases. This allows us to take proactive action by publishing good practice guides, validated by the Ministry of Health, on barrier actions, trade by trade – for delivery drivers, cashiers, etc. – as well as ensuring numerous checks to verify that these measures are applied. Can any work take place at any time at any time? There is a labour code, you see: the whole code, just the code. However, we have laid down rules. Thus, according to a recent order, if an employer wants its employees to take leave now, by derogating from the one-month warning period, it must enter into an agreement with the social partners. A fairly large number of companies are negotiating a week of paid leave taken now, often with a counterpart, such as the payment of 100 per cent of wages in the event of partial unemployment. This has been achieved recently in several cases, such as at Renault. In terms of days of RTT and CET – time savings account – at least one week can be used during confinement. There is therefore no change in the rules, but an adaptation to the context. On the other hand, I am referring to the importance of sharing value, which the President of the Republic has stressed. This issue, which has already made much progress with the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – seems essential to me, as to the whole Government. In the long term, more needs to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u77	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u78	Mr Minister of Culture, I would like to say again that I am pleased to see you completely restored and to find you in our Chamber. In his speech, the President of the Republic announced the ban on all rallies until mid-July. Several festivals have already announced their cancellation: that of the Old Plows, the "In" of Avignon, Solidays, etc. The crisis in the cultural world has far-reaching consequences, both human and economic. Intermittents, artists and all professions in the field of live performance therefore expect the Ministry of Culture to speak loudly and to take measures to match the stakes, both in terms of the timing of the exit from the crisis and the means available to safeguard the sector. The help desk for festival organizers cannot be the only response to one of the worst crises we have faced in recent decades. As you know, the cultural sector and the entertainment industry have many professions, which are very much at risk. Several questions arise. What about partial unemployment for the show's intermittents? This is tantamount to asking companies already exsangued to advance the remunerations when the fund created by the State could have directly compensated the artists and technicians. What about the authors' situation, which is also particularly worrying? They do not receive any fixed income, and the shows are cancelled one after the other. What measures do you intend to take to help them? The representatives of the film industry call for more than the use of the support funds authorized by the CNC, the National Film and Animation Centre. After a month of closure, the losses of the rooms are obviously significant. The world of culture is devastated. Can you tell us what specific measures you intend to take to help him? We're counting on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u79	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u80	All sectors of activity are hard hit by the crisis of the Covid -19, especially that of culture, with, as you have pointed out, very important economic, social, human and artistic consequences. I have a thought for the artists and all the actors of culture, who are experiencing not only economic and social difficulties, affecting their activity, but also psychological and artistic, because, when you work for months or years to prepare a show or a festival, you have to give up breaking your heart. Together with my Government colleagues, under the authority of the Prime Minister, we have, from the outset, ensured that all measures of general application benefit the cultural sector: loans guaranteed by the State for companies lacking cash; access to partial unemployment for those who recruit intermittents from the show; use of the solidarity fund, which, as you have learned, will be re-evaluated and its eligibility procedures reviewed so that more authors can benefit from it. In addition, we have mobilised the operators of the Ministry of Culture to ensure that concrete aid, amounting to some €22 million in total, is immediately provided to the actors in culture. However, this is not enough. The President of the Republic has invited us to build a specific plan for culture. I will work with my teams and the members of the Government directly involved, under the authority of the Prime Minister, in connection with local authorities, parliamentarians and actors in the sector, to build a project to revive the sinister experience of culture. Finally, at the request of the President of the Republic, we have two weeks to prepare a plan for deconfining from 11 May, which we will hand over to the Prime Minister. You can count on me and my teams to remain engaged in the service of culture and all those who work in this sphere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u81	We continue with questions on various topics, always in connection with the health crisis. Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u82	The question of my colleague Bruno Questel, in which he associates the deputies of the LaREM group also elected local and Jean-René Cazeneuve, chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, is addressed to the minister responsible for local authorities. Last night, the President of the Republic addressed the French and French to provide numerous answers to the legitimate questions they have posed since the confinement was put in place. In his speech, he did not fail to underline the essential role of mayors and local elected officials for several weeks. He spoke of the many local solidarity groups, the attention paid to the most fragile and the importance of the communes and their elected representatives, their role as sensors so that, on the one hand, containment can take place well and, on the other hand, it is accepted by the greatest number of people. In announcing the foreseeable end of confinement on Monday, 11 May, the President of the Republic also outlined a perspective for most of our compatriots. In this context, municipalities will once again be one of the essential relays for each of them. Since the adoption of the emergency health law and the publication of appropriate ordinances, we can affirm that local democracy is preserved and has all the means of action necessary to act in times of crisis. At the same time, essential local public services are functioning. In this regard, we can pay tribute to our elected officials and territorial public officials, on the front line. An important issue for municipalities, however, needs to be addressed, requiring readability and perspectives. On 15 March, more than 30,000 communes elected their entire municipal council. These new municipal assemblies have yet to be installed. Information should be given on this point. Can you, Minister, give us visibility? Furthermore, in view of the de-confinination and gradual reopening of schools, can you tell us what the role of mayors and local elected representatives will be in the de-confinination strategy, the success of which will depend largely on them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u83	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u84	Like yourself and several other speakers, Mrs Rist, the President of the Republic recalled last night the central role of the 600,000 local elected representatives – in particular mayors, their deputies and municipal councillors – in managing the crisis. As you said, the first challenge was the continuity of local public services. As the Prime Minister has always pointed out, these are not always spectacular, but the management of water, waste and sanitation are as many imperatives as must be guaranteed. More than a month ago, we had fears about it, but the challenge was met. Under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, in connection with the prefects, the mayors, state agents with police powers, have ensured respect for confinement: they have played an important role in defining the doctrines of employment of municipal police during the period of confinement, in coordination with the internal security services, and they will continue to play this role for the next month. The mayors will then have a role to play in the decoupling. It will have to be clarified within the framework of the doctrine referred to by the Prime Minister a few moments ago. Jean Castex, the interdepartmental delegate responsible for deconfining strategies, has been mayor of his commune for many years; He therefore knows the importance that mayors can have in this process. In return, we owe two things to local elected officials. The first is to enable their local and regional authorities to function properly. This is the subject of the many ordinances we have made over the past three weeks, through Parliament's authorization, which allow communities to operate almost normally in times of confinement: local democracy is not broken. The other aspect on which we are expected is, of course, the installation of the 30,000 municipal councils, deemed complete on the evening of the first round of municipal elections. In the Emergency Act, Parliament decided on a date, 23 May, on which the Government must submit a report specifying the health conditions of the undertaking. If I were to answer you in one sentence, the Government – the Prime Minister said – would like to see the installation of municipal councils as soon as possible, in accordance with the health constraints, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u85	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u86	We are experiencing a painful health crisis because of the number of human losses, which is distressing because of its social and economic consequences. But other tragedies take place in a closed place, the one where families are confined, and the one, alas, sometimes domestic violence. How to escape, how to phone when the perpetrator of the violence is there permanently? How to say the blows, how to let the bruises see when the school is closed? The vigilance and action of the nation in all its components is more necessary than ever. Listening points have been opened in the malls. Pharmacies can now accommodate women victims of violence in order to assist them and prevent the police. Women and children can find help at 3919 and 114, including by SMS. These measures are positive but still insufficiently known. Also, I propose that the official messages on the Covid-19, widely disseminated in the media, systematically contain information on these emergency numbers. In the face of tragedy, this can help neighbours, associations and elected representatives to testify so that the police and the justice system can act. As is the case in Seine-Saint-Denis, accommodation places and, above all, accommodation can be reserved everywhere in France in order to receive the victims safely. This requires accompaniment; Also, all associations that work continuously alongside women and children must urgently receive the necessary resources from the State for the development of their activities. Finally, I want to talk about children placed and followed by child welfare. In order for us to continue to protect these children, the State must enable social workers to exercise their profession in the best possible health conditions, by providing the departments with the means to ensure that children are properly accommodated during confinement. This is our ability to ensure the physical and psychological integrity and dignity of our most fragile compatriots. Without public action and the involvement of the State, nothing will be as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u87	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u88	[[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] Prime Minister, what measures do you intend to implement in this particularly difficult period to protect women and children?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u89	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u90	You have set the horrendous framework: a lock-up that can provoke violence, which we are suffering because we cannot call for help. It is true for companions and children alike, and it is unbearable to imagine that confinement is synonymous with impunity. You mentioned some of the solutions we have put in place. Knowing the difficulty of calling 911 and sending the emergency message to be protected, we wished, with Nicole Belloubet, Marlène Schiappa and Adrien Taquet, that all possibilities be opened to make the cry of distress heard. We have given very clear instructions, in particular to the internal security forces, police and gendarmes, encouraging them, for example, to make calls for initiative if they are aware of individual situations that have not given rise to legal proceedings, with the aim of assessing the situation during the interview. We have strengthened the means of the indispensable tools: the Platform Stop Violence, which works 24 hours a day and seven days a week; monitoring and accompaniment to 3919; Calls for initiative; 17 of course. You mentioned pharmacists and shopping malls. If I take the only example of pharmacies, in recent weeks, since the opening of this possibility, at least four perpetrators of violence have been arrested as a result of reports made in this way. I am also thinking of the possibility of giving the SMS alert, which I announced a few days ago in this House: 170 cases are dealt with daily. We need resources, including accommodation. This is why Marlène Schiappa referred to the mobilisation of EUR 1 million for the support of associations which play a key role in this area, but also to the expansion of reception capacity, with the possibility of an additional 20,000 nights. Finally, I have sent very clear messages to the Prefects: in no case should a material problem be opposed to the protection we owe to women and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u91	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u92	This question by my colleague Camille Galliard-Minier, to whom she associates Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel, is addressed to Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, responsible for disabled people. "I've become a robot, I chain without thinking about the daily tasks. I don't have time for myself anymore. I feel like I can crack, tears come up to my eyes. These words, those of Servane Hugues, mother of the young Antoine, 14 years old, polydisabled, describe the daily life, since the beginning of confinement, of many families with dependent children with disabilities. The unprecedented health crisis has led the Government to take unprecedented steps, including the closure of reception centres and medical and social institutions. These closures have resulted in the return of children with disabilities to their family homes. Far from being anodized, these returns have sometimes been a source of imbalances. While the Government had issued several measures to ease confinement, which had been welcomed, they were still insufficient, according to the families. Associative initiatives, which should be welcomed, have multiplied, such as the All mobilised platform of the National Federation to grow together. Madam Secretary of State, after four weeks of confinement, the extension of measures is a matter of concern to families. Given the special situation, could you provide us with information on the prospects and timetable for reopening the medical and social institutions envisaged by the Government? What other solutions are provided to alleviate the plight of persons with disabilities and their families?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u93	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u94	Thank you, Mrs Rist, for giving you the voice of Mrs Galliard-Minier and Mrs Fontaine-Domeizel, whom I greet. I had the opportunity to dialogue with Servane Hugues, Antoine's mother, as well as with many other families and listeners. I know how difficult the unprecedented but necessary constraints imposed to protect the health of our citizens can be to live on a daily basis. I also know the commitment of the leisure plural network as well as that of all professionals and volunteers working with families, especially at home, during this crisis; I thank them for that. When confinement was extended in early April, we adjusted the response framework to support caregivers and avoid their exhaustion. Indeed, in the context of the closure of externates, professionals in the medical and social sector have mobilized to accompany families with children or adults with disabilities at home. We have identified respite solutions when situations no longer hold: relaying at home; mobilising an hour credit from the CAF, the family allowance fund; organization of individual outings with a professional in the green areas of the establishment; Finally, if necessary, temporary boarding for seven or fourteen days. The online solidarity-handicaps.fr platform, created on the initiative of the CNCHP – the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities – and the ANCREAI – the National Association of Regional Centres for Studies, Actions and Information for People in Vulnerable Situations, identifies community-based solutions that can facilitate the lives of families. With Christophe Castaner, we have relaxed the exit rules applicable to people for whom strict confinement leads to increased behavioural disorders or to altered mental health. We are working to implement these opportunities as closely as possible to families and in a harmonized way in the territory. I am aware of the mobilization of parliamentarians on this subject and, again tomorrow morning, I will be with them to make known the innovations and all the measures put in place. We are also at work, within the framework set out yesterday by the President of the Republic, in conjunction with associations and administrations, to define the modalities for accompanying the gradual reopening of externates after 11 May and the prospects specific to our disabled fellow citizens, whose health is the most fragile and must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u95	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u96	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, in this context of the health crisis, our solidarity with our European neighbours is complete, and we can count on their support and support, illustrated by the care of dozens of French patients, in particular Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg. This momentum of self-help has already saved lives and shows once again the need for European thinking and action, especially in moments of tension like those we are experiencing today. Some believe that Germany would be more resilient because it has so far experienced fewer deaths. However, the comparison between France and Germany is difficult or even misleading, since many data have to be taken into account: cultural and demographic specificities, organisation of the health system or stage of development of the epidemic in the country. All this must encourage us to be cautious: we do not have any setbacks to draw any conclusions on crisis management. Yet, sometimes hasty comparisons are flourishing and some citizens are wondering. So, at this stage, how can we explain the sometimes different approaches between our two countries? Could we draw inspiration from certain actions taken by our German friends in the fight against this scourge? The question may also arise as regards economic accompaniment. Germany has put in place a massive support plan for firms in difficulty and their employees. Is France's economic strategy different? The epidemic requires more cooperation between our two countries. How do you intend to further strengthen Franco-German health and economic cooperation in order to make national measures more coherent and effective? Finally, in the context of the ongoing reflection on the prospects for de-consolidation, is there a plan to coordinate actions at European level?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u98	As you pointed out, Mrs Rist, European cooperation is a key element in defeating the virus, and Franco-German cooperation plays a leading role, both in this case and in many areas. It is first and foremost expressed, in a pragmatic way, by solidarity: several dozen French patients from the Grand Est region were welcomed in resuscitation in German institutions; Several hundred of our respective nationals, trapped abroad, have been repatriated in common. It is also reflected in the management of our external but also common borders: we have made every effort to ensure that border measures have the least possible impact on the situation of cross-border workers – by maintaining their employment and budgetary and fiscal provisions – and on the movement of goods. Moreover, your question gives me the opportunity to welcome the condemnation by my counterpart Heiko Maas of certain detestable behaviors against our cross-border compatriots. Franco-German cooperation also manifests itself in the economic field: it is clear that cooperation between France and Germany, through Bruno Le Maire and Olaf Scholz, was decisive last week to bring the Eurogroup's negotiations to a successful conclusion, which decided to invest EUR 500 billion and to create a recovery fund. It also exists in the health field: Jens Spahn and Olivier Véran meet and exchange regularly about the coordination of measures, even if comparisons are not easy, you have observed it. It also deploys at the international level: next Thursday, Heiko Maas and I will take the initiative to bring together the Alliance for Multilateralism, in order to prepare international cooperation to the world after.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u99	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u100	This very strong initiative, made necessary by the challenges facing the World Health Organization, aims to promote new multilateralism in the field of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u101	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u102	This question by Jean-Louis Bourlanges is addressed to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. In the midst of the current trials, we are pleased to see that, thanks to the action of France in particular, Europeans have so far faced the urgency. The Member States were able, without delay, to overcome pragmatic budgetary constraints which the current recession made counterproductive. The European Central Bank, for its part, has taken all its responsibilities to enable everyone to finance at reasonable rates the enormous needs created by the situation. Even better, the Union has taken a lead in thinking now about the demands of the day after. In particular, I am looking at the desire to build on new foundations the action of the European Stability Mechanism and that of establishing a fund for the reconstruction of our economies. I am also thinking of the need for a double leap in the Union's budget: qualitative and quantitative. The MODEM Group would like to say to you that it is proud to see France standing at the forefront of this great fight for an additional Europe. Revitalisation of European action, however, will only be accepted if it is no longer seen as an eternal effort to correct previous failures. It must become the vehicle for a truly ambitious and inclusive collective innovation. Neither yesterday's European Stability Mechanism nor the traditional Eurobonds can be models for the future. In order to build on a solid foundation a common strategy of economic and social reparation, do you not think, Mr Minister, that it has become inevitable to clarify the pact of subsidiarity and solidarity that unites us? To say what everyone should do alone or to do with others has become a categorical imperative. In these times of tragedy, does France not have a duty, to speak as Malraux, to help Europe become aware of the greatness it ignores in it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u103	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u104	Mr Bourlanges is right: Europe is at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u105	Like many times!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u106	After a few difficulties at the start, it is really on the way: there was never such a mobilisation of all the available tools and at such a level, either by the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank or the European Stability Mechanism. Yes, Europe is on the rendezvous! The European response has even gone beyond what some people until recently considered to be impossible or even irresponsible: the considerable relaxation of the state aid rules and the famous 3% maximum public deficit rate set in the Stability and Growth Pact. In this dramatic period, Europe has been free from taboos and dogmas. However Jean-Louis Bourlanges is right: this is not enough, we must go much further. By calling for a clarification of what you call the'subsidiarity and solidarity pact', it raises the major question: is Europe capable of reinventing itself or is it only destined to react to the events that it is experiencing, to move forward only when it is confronted with a crisis, as is often the case? Our answer is clear: the crisis we are experiencing must be an acceleration of re-foundation for the European Union, I am firmly convinced. At the end of the crisis, this re-foundation must enable Europe to be more supportive, pragmatic and responsive, but also more sovereign. Since Malraux has been quoted, I would say that Europe must be aware of its power, which must prevail and of which it must be very proud. In this respect, the major test will be the implementation of the Recovery Fund initiated at the Eurogroup meeting, which I hope will be held at the European Council meeting on 23 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u107	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u108	My colleague Jacques Krabal's question is addressed to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. France continues to wage the war against the Covid-19 on metropolitan territory and in the DOM-TOM, overseas departments and territories. Doctors, nurses and service workers are bravely fighting in hospitals, EHPADs and at home. Everywhere the security forces ensure that containment is respected, for the health of all. France is standing thanks also to those in the second line: farmers, garbagemen, factors, teachers, cashiers, elected officials. I don't forget service clubs, volunteers and business leaders; Thus, in Montreuil-aux-Lions, we create protections for the caregivers of the hospitals of Château-Thierry, Villiers-Saint-Denis, from the south of Aisne and far beyond. As you can see, rural life is also on the table. France, like Europe, will defeat this epidemic. But the pandemic is global. If it develops in Africa, in developing countries, we will remain under threat. The fragility of their health systems makes them even more vulnerable. Respect for barrier gestures is difficult: how can you wash your hands when there is no water? How can you stay confined to a restricted space or when hunger comes to you? The Director of WHO warns that we must prepare for the worst. The Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie also draws the alarm. Of course, the European Union has released €15 billion in aid to vulnerable countries. What efforts will France make to encourage international bodies, the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – and the World Bank, to help African countries more? What is France's position on the demand for African debt relief?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u109	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u110	Knowing Jacques Krabal's interest in Africa, I will reply that we look at the situation on this continent without catastrophism, without alarmist predictions, but with extreme vigilance, for several reasons: after having reached Africa later, the wave of the Covid -19 rises there; African health systems are fragile; the courageous containment measures taken by several countries may have a lasting impact on the inhabitants who often live on a day-to-day basis. At this time, we must therefore help Africa, out of solidarity with friendly countries. The human link between Africa and France is tragically illustrated by this French-Malgache urgentist doctor, trained in France, who returned to lend a hand to the hospital of Compiègne, who will remain as the first doctor victim of the Covid-19 in France. Helping Africa is also responding to France's interests, by acting in our neighbourhood to avoid the threat of a return effect, a boomerang effect, a second wave that would hit us while we were in the recovery phase. That is why the President of the Republic, together with his European partners, is developing a strategy to support the African health system. To this end, we will reorient our bilateral development assistance to the tune of €1.2 billion in grants and loans, using credits for other development actions. Our aid to Africa is also deployed in the multilateral framework, with the mobilization of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, as well as that of GAVI – the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization –, Unitaid and all the other funds in which France participates. Finally, we support the African scientific community, with which we collaborate in the search for solutions, and the economic activity of the continent – you heard yesterday the President of the Republic speak in favour of a moratorium on the debt of African countries and even its cancellation, a strong measure in the framework of our cooperation with Africa at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u111	We have concluded with the question-and-answer session of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-14-O1192.u112	Next meeting, Friday, 17 April 2020, at 9 a.m.: Draft Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
