ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Michel Castellani and others to freeze football matches on 5 May (No 2547, 2655).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u2	Mr Michel Castellani, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u3	The excellent rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u4	Tuesday, 5 May 1992. That date was to resonate as a happy memory. I remember the carelessness of the streets of Bastia and Corsica, a few hours from a semi-final of the Coupe de France de prestige against the Olympique de Marseille. I remember the blue fervour, the songs, the horn strokes, the prospect of opening up access to a new finale. The time was at the party. In the days before the event, I remember having hesitated for a long time: did I have to take my son to the stadium? I took his ticket the same day of the game. When I arrived at the Armand-Cesari Stadium in Furiani, I saw this impressive building, the hastily built northern platform, which almost doubled the capacity of the stadium. From above, the panorama was magnificent: an immense sandy beach that runs north to Bastia. I remember the extraordinary atmosphere. I also remember, which is infinitely sadder, the gnashing of the north gallery, which was shaking. I asked my son to come down and stay lower with me. Many others didn't get that chance. The game was about to start. Tuesday, May 5, 1992, twenty-three hours, I hear this terrible sound, like a train that passes right behind me. In my back, a tragic emptiness. We were in the drama, in the midst of horror: 19 dead, 2357 victims counted. Nineteen names inscribed on a stele: Antoine Angelini, Guy Brunei, Marie-Pierre Campana née Clément, André Casta, Alexandra Drillaud, Jean-Baptiste Dumas, Jean Ferrara, Antoine Geronimi, Thierry Giampietri, Dominique Giannoni, Santa Grimaldi, Pierre-Jean Guidicelli, Cédric Lalliat, Lucien Marsicano, Christian Mattéi, Michel Mottier, Marie-Laure Ottaviani née Guerrieri, Patrick Rao, Michel Vivarelli. Nineteen names inscribed on a stele; so many physical injuries as well, and even more moral bruises. The disarray is huge. The scale of the disaster is national and even European. The final of the 1991-92 Coupe de France will never take place. Emotion goes beyond sports. The President of the Republic, François Mitterrand, promises that no football matches will ever be held on that date. And then the drama moves away. The collective emotion of one evening gradually dissolves over time. As we look for those responsible, that each party involved in this construction hastily tries to clear their customs, the pain remains present. But the victims, gradually, are forgotten. This is how the Collective of the victims of the Furiani disaster of 5 May 1992 was created, and I welcome its action. For twenty-seven years, they have been fighting against oblivion and for dignity. So far, they have reaped many disappointments: the trial of the Furiani disaster; the promise, still unfulfilled, of President Mitterrand; the hesitations of the Professional Football League; the final of the Coupe de la Ligue, played on 5 May 2001 at the Stade de France. We take the pretext of the constraints of the calendar, even though, every year, postponements are decided due to climatic conditions or to specific mobilizations, as was again the case with the movement of the yellow vests. Each episode is another suffering; every semblance of victory ends in disappointment. In 2015, a step forward was finally taken: the recognition by the State of the Furiani disaster as a national drama. A commemorative plaque was unveiled the following year at the Ministry of Sports. The agreement of 22 July, signed between the representatives of French football, the ministry and the collective of 5 May, provides that no match will take place when 5 May is a Saturday. This is a half measure, when we know that May 5, 1992, was a Tuesday and, above all, when we know that families weep for the absent and heal the wounded on a daily basis, that this pain does not depend on the days of the week. This half measure still represents a step forward, a more respectful attitude towards the victims. It took more than twenty-three years to achieve this progress. We must pay tribute to the Secretary of State for Sport, Thierry Braillard, who allowed it. In May 2017, May 5 is a white day on the calendar. In the following season, however, several Ligue 1 matches took place on Sunday, May 5, to the surprise of a large part of the football community: coaches, players, supporters – many banners will prove it. [[Applause on all benches]] Invoking constraints of calendars, and therefore those of broadcasters, the Professional Football League finally refers us to its own hesitations and contradictions. It refers us above all to a fundamental question: what is the share of sport, of ethics, of human beings, and what is the share of purely economic interests? What does the memory of past events weigh in the face of immediate interests? It is well known that professional sport is an economic activity and that the interests at stake are increasing, but is this reality countervailable to the deep virtues of sport? Isn't sport, if it offers an economic dimension, also a great human adventure? Is it not a factor of cohesion, of individual and collective equipment? Is coexistence so difficult that no concessions are possible? It is also this kind of question that we have to answer today. Gradually, from drama to the national echo that it was and remains, the Furiani disaster has turned into a simple peculiarity of regional news, into painful fact various local – no more nor less. This impression does not reflect the truth; She's certainly not ours. This tragedy is the greatest disaster that French sport has ever experienced. The match was a semi-final of the Coupe de France. It was to be broadcast on the national branches, and the presence of many journalists in the affected gallery proves this. The bruises of the Marseilles and continental victims also exist. No, this tragedy is not limited to Corsica. This question was decided by the Corsican Assembly by unanimous votes. Our committee has also decided this, and I would like to thank all those who have enriched the debate here. Anyway, for the victims, physical pain has been present for twenty-seven years. She'll never disappear. There is another pain, unspeakable, impalpable, inaudible: moral pain, that of souls and of the spirit, that of memories, that of absence never filled. [[Applause on all benches. Many MEPs stand up and continue to applaud]] So, out of respect for the disappeared and for those whose lives have turned on this night of carelessness, our request, their request, is simple: that no professional football matches be held on May 5! So that the mistakes of the past never happen again, so that the victims and their families are finally honoured, but also in tribute to the values of living together, to the deep values of sport, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u5	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u6	On May 5, 1992, our country lived one of the darkest pages of its sports history, at the Armand-Cesari Stadium in Furiani: 19 dead, 2357 wounded, so many bereaved families. This drama is not a drama for Corsican sport; It is and will always remain a drama of our national sport, of the whole French sport. It is the recognition of this tragedy as a national tragedy that is being discussed today. The State and the legislator have not remained silent: on 13 July 1992, a law was added to the law of 16 July 1984, creating a new procedure for the approval of fora intended to receive sports events open to the public. It was to say, never again in a sports hall. Among the victims and the wounded were many Corsicans and this tragedy left an indelible mark on the island. For many years, the Furiani drama seems to have been too much regarded as a regional drama: the freeze on May 5 did not concern those who were taking place on the continent. However, on May 5, 1992, it was a Coupe de France match, held on French soil. Had this tragedy taken place in Bordeaux, Lille or Rennes, would the national dimension have been more easily recognised? No doubt – that is the feeling, in any case, of the victims' collective of 5 May. This is why a step towards national recognition was taken in 2015. Under the authority of Minister Thierry Braillard, an agreement was reached on 22 July 2015 between the Ministry of Sports, the Fédération française and the Ligue professionnelle. This agreement provides that, on 5 May of each year, a tribute will be paid by all football clubs throughout the national territory, by a minute of silence or applause, by wearing a brassard or by reading a message. It is also expected that footballers will no longer tread the lawns of the French stadiums on May 5, if this day falls on a Saturday, whether the competitions take place nationally, professionally or amateurly. Finally, on May 5, 2016, a commemorative plaque was affixed to the Ministry of Sport. A ceremony is held every year. I myself participated last year, alongside Nathalie Boy de la Tour, president of the Football League. It must be noted that these actions did not allow the families of victims to feel that their suffering was recognized. So I took the initiative to meet with the victims' collective on May 5, 2019, to hear their views. I have mobilised the football bodies to find with them the best way to meet these expectations. The proposals put forward then did not meet the expected echo, because this collective constantly asks that no match be held on 5 May. [[Applause on all benches]] This decision clearly does not fall within the legislative sphere; It is the responsibility of the football authorities. It does not seem insurmountable to me to postpone the matches every 5 May. If, to remember, it is possible to move the games when May 5 falls on a Saturday, why can't we move those who fall on another day of the week?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u8	I also note that the current commemorations are unfortunately blurred by the sport issue. There are many supporters who regret it. We do not want to forget: the drama of Furiani will remain an open wound of French sport; Our thoughts will always accompany the victims and their families. [[Applause on all benches]] That is why, in the absence of agreement between the football authorities and the victims' collective on 5 May, I agree with the spirit of this bill. We will no longer play football on 5 May: these were the words of the President of the Republic François Mitterrand. I can only be satisfied that, under Emmanuel Macron's presidency, this commitment is finally being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u9	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u10	Tuesday, 5 May 1992. It's going to be a lovely evening. Bastia got dressed in blue and white to support her team. Throughout France, thousands of Corsicans, football enthusiasts and major events vibrate in unison with the island of Beauty. That night, Bastia welcomed what was best done in France's football industry, and even throughout Europe: the Olympique de Marseille, my club. It's a gala poster, the semi-final of the Coupe de France. The sun declines, the atmosphere rises, this electric atmosphere that precedes the big games. This one starts in a few minutes: it dances, it sings, it warms up. Twenty o'clock twenty: suddenly, part of the temporary rostrum, installed for the occasion, collapses, sowing death and transforming, in an immense bustle, this festive communion into a scene of tragedy. Each one of us remembers where it was on this 5th May 1992 at 2020 hours. Furiani's drama was lived live by millions of viewers. Furiani is unbelief, inconceivable. Furiani, it is the image of the players who join all to rescue the wounded, to support those who have just lost a loved one. There are no more football stars; There are no more mere spectators. There is humanity that emerges in the midst of iron bars, concrete, plastic from this platform of death. The shock wave of this tragedy, we still feel the replicas of it today. And if we propose to include his fair recognition in the law, it is that, twenty-eight years later, the pain felt does not dissipate. We do not claim to believe that the adoption of the text will diminish the penalty of those who have lost a loved one, a sister, a son, a brother, a father, a mother. It will not remove the pain of those who have been marked in their flesh and who still suffer in their bodies today. But for the 19 dead and the 2357 wounded, for those who are fighting within the collective of the victims of the Furiani disaster of 5 May 1992, we had to take the initiative of this bill which will mark the recognition of the Furiani tragedy by the national community. With this text, we keep the promise made by the President of the Republic François Mitterrand, who had wished that after the disaster, we would not play football again on 5 May. With this text, more modestly, we are faithful to the oath we made in Bastia last May with the members of the Libertés et territoires group, on the sidelines of a match between the French parliamentary team and a selection made up of island elected representatives. Some people wonder: is it the role of the law to deal with the contingencies specific to the organisation of sports competitions? I will tell them that the memory of the Furiani disaster far exceeds this framework: it goes beyond football, it goes beyond Corsica, it concerns us all; He must therefore bring us together and remind us of the meaning of living together. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, GDR and FI groups]] Others wonder why to commemorate the Furiani disaster and not other tragedies – I am thinking in particular of the terrible accident of the 24 Hours of Le Mans of 1955. Without paying in to the memory competition, let us remember that the disaster that took place on 5 May 1992 was the one that should never have occurred: it was the result of the greed of some, the failure of the state and a system supposed to protect us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u11	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u13	[[Same movements]] This tragedy was caused by non-compliance with basic security rules. It was only possible because of a succession of cowardice and unforgivable dysfunctions. We must remind him today! This tragedy is not due to a crowd movement, a confrontation between supporters, a technical failure, or a blow from the wind. No, it is due to the collapse of a temporary platform built in haste and for one purpose: to make more profit, more money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u15	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u16	As a result of the Furiani disaster, the safety rules for this type of event have been strengthened, whether it be sporting events or shows. An infrastructure audit was carried out and the standards governing the design of sports venues, such as the reception of supporters, were reviewed. Such an evolution was indispensable, for we must proclaim: Furiani may più – Furiani never again! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Behind this catastrophe, there is also the greed of certain actors. No longer organising professional football matches on 5 May, it is therefore also questioning the place of money in football, in sport and in all cultural events. French football authorities have long re-enacted the ban on matches on May 5. The arguments are known: such a decision would lead to a disruption of the calendar, and we know that a day without professional football is a day without a football retransmission. But one day without professional football, it could also be one day to question us about the values of our society, one day to remind us that collective communion must always take precedence over greed and the bait of gain. Let us make May 5 a day of recollection, where the beautiful values of sport will be honoured. Albert Camus, the poor child in the Belcourt neighbourhood, who was a very good goaltender, said: "Really, the little moral I know, I learned about football fields and theatre scenes, which will remain my true universities. » Football is a popular sport in all the meanings of the term, a vector of education. By playing football, children acquire the taste of joint effort and team spirit, in other words, the sense of fraternity. Like so many other sports and artistic practices, football allows differences of origin or class to fade away. Since 1992, various tributes have been paid and various initiatives have sought to acknowledge the Furiani tragedy. In this connection, the role played by the victims and their families gathered in the collective of victims of 5 May 1992 should be recognized. In 2015, the Furiani disaster was recognized as a national drama, particularly under the leadership of the then Secretary of State for Sports, Thierry Braillard. This fight was also that of our friend Avi Assouly, MP for the previous legislature, a journalist present in Bastia on the cursed rostrum. Within this Chamber, with his broken body, he fought for the recognition of the Furiani tragedy, for those who, next to him, died or were injured on 5 May 1992. The agreement concluded in 2015 also provides for the freezing of professional football matches on May 5, but only when it falls on a Saturday. This progress is obviously not satisfactory. The Furiani disaster took place on a Tuesday and, as my friend Michel Castellani said, the pain is present every day of the week. Let us admit that the proposed measure is therefore not readable. The incomprehension of last year's programming of several games on May 5 attests to this. We know the procrastinations of the Professional Football League, the French Football Federation, and the Government; But your position, Madam Minister, is now very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u17	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u18	[[Applause on all benches]] It must be said that our initiative has received the support of members of the majority and those of the opposition. It is the subject of a consensus within France of football and well beyond. We have all read the list of signatories in the gallery released this week by 135 personalities calling for no more football games on May 5. It brings together players, coaches, leaders, supporters, elected officials, journalists and personalities from the entertainment world. Our bill has the advantage of clarity: on May 5, whether it falls on a Tuesday, a Thursday or a Saturday, we don't play football, that's all. For all the reasons I have mentioned, to honour the memory of the victims, to say no to the greed that is deviating it together, to maintain our vigilance so that such a tragedy will never happen again and to highlight, the time of a day, the beautiful values of sport and entertainment, and the shared moments that they provide, we call on you, colleagues, to add your voice to ours so that we will not play professional football anymore on 5 May. [[Applause on all benches]] At this moment, in a more personal way, I am also thinking of Pascal Paoli and the Republic of Corsica, of the attacks that we, the French of the continent, carried out on the island in the eighteenth century, on its conquest, and on all that we have forgotten about Corsica over time. The bill is a strong gesture towards the Corsican population. By making the date of 5 May 1992 a symbol, we reaffirm that this territory is an integral part of France. With the bill, we acknowledge the men and women affected by the Furiani tragedy, but we also send a sign of friendship to the Corsican people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u19	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u20	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u21	On May 5, 1992, just before the start of the semi-final of the Coupe de France, which was to oppose Bastia to the Olympique de Marseille, the northern podium of the Armand-Cesari stadium in Furiani collapsed. Built in haste a few days before the meeting to welcome additional spectators and thus increase the revenues of the event, the metal structure had ceded, transforming itself into a deadly entanglement. Report of the disaster: 19 dead and 2357 wounded. Almost twenty-eight years after this atrocious tragedy, it is high time to honor the memory of the victims, their families and their loved ones with dignity. This is the subject of the bill presented to us today, which establishes that no football matches of the professional championships of the Ligue 1, the Ligue 2 and the Coupe de France will now be played on the 5th of May. We will vote in favour of this text, because only such a national tribute is commensurate with a tragedy that has bruised Corsica, but also the whole family of French football and the nation. President François Mitterrand, who had gone there to say the solidarity of the whole of France, had announced it in the days following the tragedy: "We will no longer play football again in France on 5 May. This promise of the Head of State, who had clearly perceived the magnitude of the trauma and the need to honour the memory of the victims, was not respected by his successors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u22	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u23	The decision taken in 2015 to postpone the meetings scheduled for May 5 only when that date would fall on Saturdays has no meaning and cannot suffice. It resulted in many games taking place on May 5 – five in the 2018-2019 season – and could even lead to victories in the Coupe de la Ligue or in the French championships being celebrated on that date, as in 2001 and 2010. Such a situation is obviously intolerable for those for whom May 5 is a day of pain and mourning. It does not respect the duty of memory; It is not worthy of what the nation owes to the victims, their families and their loved ones. Unworthy, this situation is also absurd. What logic is there - indeed, to postpone the May 5 matches only when it falls on a Saturday? Such a measure cannot be based on any historical reason, since May 5, 1992 was a Tuesday, nor on a practical reason: it is up to the Professional Football League to fix the calendar of seasons and there is no technical objection to the date of May 5 being sanctified throughout France, whether it falls on a Saturday, a Sunday or another day of the week. Why, in these circumstances, have not already made the decision? I dare not believe that the answer to this question is linked to obscurous financial imperatives or, worse, to a slight culprit in the face of a tragedy that would seem to be able to be minimized and reduced to a regional dimension. It would be a scandal. It is more than time to correct the error that has been committed and to hear the voice of those who have been calling for the nation to finally respect the memory of the victims of May 5, 1992. They are numerous, and we must pay tribute to their fight: many in Corsica, of course, within the collective of the victims of the disaster of Furiani of 5 May 1992, but also many beyond, in the family of football, in the family of sport and in the whole country. I am thinking, for example, of those Stéphanois, Marseilles and Rennes supporters who deployed banners in the stadiums on May 5, 2019 to say their outrage at the organisation of matches on May 5 and ask that this not happen again. On one of these banners were written the words: "Out of respect, no match on May 5". This simple and admirable expression of what George Orwell called the "ordinary decency" of the people summarizes everything. If one more thing had to be added, I would say that the memory of the Furiani tragedy bears in it a civic lesson of crucial importance in our time, that of the drift of sport shows. If football generates economic profits – huge profits, probably disproportionate – then the quest for profit must never be made at the expense of spectator safety. To pay tribute to the victims of the Furiani disaster, to say the solidarity, the emotion and the respect of the nation to their families and their loved ones, to preserve the sense of republican virtue, which teaches that the spectacle and the money will never be more important than the common good, it is important that on May 5 be marked with a white stone and that no football match of the professional championships of Ligue 1, Ligue 2 and the Coupe de France be played that day in our country. [[Applause on all benches]] The La France insoumise group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u24	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u25	Football is the vehicle of all passions and emotions. It is more than a sport, it is a culture, with its codes, its language, its history. This story is often beautiful, sometimes tragic. Football is a whole. Furiani is part of his memory. The stadiums, or their surroundings, have experienced many tragedies. More often than not, these tragedies are linked to crowd movements, poor stage design or law enforcement management that does not allow spectators to be contained. Bottlenecks, confrontations between supporters: the reasons for the tragedies that affect football stadiums often overlap, alas. The figure of 5 May 1992 does not fit into this pattern. In Furiani, it is the collapse of a temporary forum, of a deadly forum, of recognized danger, of a forum set up to make money, ever more money, by selling more tickets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u27	It's a crime to have preferred profit rather than security, business rather than party. We went so far as to produce fakes despite the warnings... No one could, or wanted, stop this madness: neither the company, nor the Corsican Football League, nor the Bastia club, nor the representatives of the state. [[Applause on all benches]] This tragedy has not shaken only Corsica or a football club. Because of its scale and the accumulation of faults, it takes on the character of a national disaster. We must repeat it and consider it as such. The 19 dead and the 2,500 wounded were not victims of an accident or bad luck: they were victims of greed and cowardice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u30	Today I will not go back to the chain of responsibility or to the judgments handed down, because today we must think of the victims and their families. I therefore welcome the fact that this bill is under discussion, as the families of the victims are particularly sensitive to the sacralization of this 5 May date. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Bruno Questel also applauds]] There was a debate in committee on the nature of the tribute to be paid. It is true that in other countries different formats have been favoured for disasters that have taken place in one stage, but it does not seem to me that it is necessarily for national representation to take this decision. Let us simply listen to the families: they have been asking us repeatedly, for years, for the freezing of football matches on May 5. This measure will not have a big impact on the club schedule: every year there is no football match on May 5 and, when it is, it is easy to shift them or move them forward by one day. GDR MEPs therefore support this bill and welcome the work of the rapporteur. The memory of the dramas that took place in the stadiums is particularly strong, especially among the supporters. Let us think of the disaster of Heysel in Belgium, which caused the death of thirty-nine people, following clashes and a panic movement; Think of another tragedy, in England, on April 15, 1989, when a crowd movement killed ninety-six people; Consider the 4 January stadium in Angola, where, more recently, a crowd movement killed 17 people. If the causes of these tragedies are diverse, as I pointed out in the preamble, all these tragedies must be kept in mind so as not to duplicate the errors or offences that caused them. I will conclude by paying tribute to the supporters, too often caricatured. Although all forms of violence must of course be condemned, the restrictions imposed on them are sometimes disproportionate, and they feel that they are second-class citizens. Work is under way to give the supporters their full place, while respecting the values of sport, and I take my part in it with Sacha Houlié and other parliamentarians, as well as with the Government, in this case you, the Minister, and the Secretary of State for the Interior. [[Applause on all benches]] Football, before being a market, before being a show, is a human adventure, that of practitioners and practitioners, and that of supporters. On 5 May 1992 was an integral part of this collective memory. We owe families access to their requests. You will have understood this: it is with great emotion that our group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u32	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u33	Twenty-eight years that this moment is expected; twenty-eight years for Corsicans to aspire to the recognition of this tragedy by the national community; twenty-eight years to wait for François Mitterrand's commitment to be respected; twenty-eight years since each and every one, concerned by the history of Corsica, whether on the spot or, like myself, in front of his television, found himself waiting to know whether his brother, sister, cousin, father or mother was affected by the drama that was unfolding before his eyes; 28 years since this first example of a tragedy caused solely by the role of money in the world of football; 28 years since this national tragedy broke dozens and dozens of families. He is not a family-related person with Corsica who was not affected that day. As the minister pointed out, there have been debates on the legislative nature of the provision that is being proposed to us today. But the question raised by Michel Castellani and his colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group, whom I would like to thank for their initiative, is that of the capacity of the Republic as a whole to recognise that a mistake has been committed and that, even if such a tragedy could have affected another territory of the national community, it was the Corsicans who were victims. It must also be enshrined today that this should not happen again, and the proposed provision contributes to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this tragedy, that of an island as a whole, must also lead us to question the links we must have with Corsica. She's got a story. She doesn't just want to be seen as a paradise in which we go to summer to get sunbathed. Corsica must be considered in its totality, with its wealth, its forces, its women and its men who have contributed so much, in particular by the place they have taken in the administrations and in public action, to shape our history. France would not be quite what it is without their work, without their collective inventiveness. [[Applause on all benches]] I also want to greet the representatives of the victims' collective present in the gallery today: ladies and gentlemen, it is because you have fought over these years that this text will come into being! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] I would also like to point out that this text is not partisan. It is the national representation as a whole that is about to adopt this bill, with the support of the Government that I thank. [[Applause on all benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not repair what has happened, but we will allow this to never be forgotten by our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u34	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u35	There are events in existence that one never forgets: years later, you can say exactly what you were doing, where and with whom. Furiani's tragedy is one of those. On Tuesday, May 5, 1992, at twenty-three, 3,000 spectators of the semi-final of the Coupe de France between the Sporting Club de Bastia and the Olympique de Marseille are rocking, and their lives with, in the frapp of the collapse of a rostrum that always resonates in our heads, as resonates the deafening silence that ensues, as resonate the complaints and cries that rise from the rubble. We will never forget! You will forgive me to illustrate my point with my experience, as Michel Castellani did: at 25 years old, studying in Marseille and preparing the competition of the medical boarding school, gathered with friends, Corsicans or Marseilles, to celebrate like France the whole football festival in front of the TV news of TF1 live, I see at the end of the warm-up the players returning to the changing rooms, and then... Then followed the incomprehension, then the stupor, then the anguish of the loved ones and the horror – horror. In the following weeks, I see the wounded arriving at the Conception Hospital, requiring secondary care on the continent, and two of them are from my village in South Corsica. Once the competition has passed, on November 2, 1992, I began my first intern semester at the Ajaccio UAS; And there, we, the new ones, exchange with those who preceded us six months before, those who took up their duties on 2 May, three days before being laid on the Furiani lawn by the helicopters of civil security and the army to come in support of the relief to the victims. While they lamented a few hours earlier not being able to attend the game, not being able to participate in the party because of this guard, this damned guard keeps... I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, no one ever forgets these moments! For the body and mind do not want to forget, like sharing the pain of the victims and their loved ones. [[Applause on all benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must not and we do not want to forget: let us be carried by this impetus of humanity. I will not go back to what happened between 5 May 1992 and 13 February 2020. Let us once and for all stop procrastination and vote on this text so that the law conforms to the feelings and experiences of the women and men who have not forgotten what they were doing, where and with whom, on May 5, 1992, at 20:20 hours. Please, from the left to the right of this House through the centre, let us express, as unanimously as possible, a humane and fair vote. I thank you on behalf of the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u36	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u37	I was a young student on May 5, 1992; I have not forgotten anything about the collective disarray at the unheard-of entanglement of metal plates and bars, or about the sideration caused by the disappearance of nineteen of our fellow citizens and the enormous number of wounded, which the rapporteur reminded the committee of the consequences still present. We were all concerned because football is everywhere, in every municipality, in every family; It could have affected all of us... Some of us here have been affected. So we have to talk about the memory of the drama: how can we pass it on to future generations? Every generation has its own dramas. Thus, I have been told several times about the shock that was, in my region, the accident of the 24 Hours of Le Mans of 1955,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u38	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u39	... which resulted in the death of eighty-four spectators, in atrocious conditions. I don't think any car race was banned on June 11th. Yet, everyone still remembers this event. [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] The MODEM group would have preferred, because we think it is an act of memory better able to speak to future generations, a minute of silence or any other form of memory gathering to the victims of Furiani before every game, every 5 May, on all stadiums. However, out of friendship with Corsicans, out of respect for the victims, we will not vote, unless individual choice, against this bill, which endorses a gesture of memory desired by the families of victims themselves, relayed by their elected representatives. But we are still wondering about the case law it could create for other tragic events. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] This is, in the end, the choice of heart or reason. This shows that it is not always so easy to pronounce, even though we all share, of course, the pain of families on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u40	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u41	The terrible disaster that occurred on 5 May 1992 at the Armand-Cesari stadium in Furiani during the semi-final of the Coupe de France de football is still causing severe pain for the victims and their families; It remains engraved in our collective memory. At the time, she seriously tainted the sports community. Indeed, as we know, this tragedy was not an accident but the tragic result of a deliberate choice to maximize the profit generated by this encounter, to the detriment of spectator safety. Since then, justice has passed, responsibilities have been clearly established, and stricter regulations have been imposed in order to avoid future breaches of this order. It remains the imperative duty of memory and the necessary respect due to the nineteen dead as well as to the thousands of victims wounded in their flesh and soul. The day after the disaster, François Mitterrand, then President of the Republic, made a commitment that no more matches would be organised on 5 May. The Socialist and Related Group wishes to remain faithful to this commitment. As has already been pointed out, it has not been fully respected, despite an agreement, albeit late, officially signed on 22 July 2015 between the then Secretary of State for Sport, Thierry Braillard, and the victims' collective of 5 May 1992, whose presence I welcome in the gallery. Each game played on this sad memory date awakens the pain of our fellow citizens, and especially of those residing in Corsica, who all experienced, directly or not, a victim of this tragedy. That is why it was important to put this issue on the agenda of our debates; We would like to thank Michel Castellani for having done so. It is indeed time to put an end to the delaying in certain respects of the seal of indignity; to silence the apologies presented by some who, giving priority to organizational concerns, do not honour the values they are supposed to bring to light; to put an end to the long and painful expectation of the victims. It is time for the nation to resolutely commit itself and respond to the aspirations of the growing number of people who are calling for the neutralisation of football matches on May 5. In considering the text in committee on 5 February, we noted no objection in principle to this proposal by the various political groups, but a reluctance to work through legislation on the grounds that it would not fall within the legislative sphere. Beyond this reserve, we all agree on the need to maintain the memory of this tragedy in tribute to the victims and their families, but also in order to demonstrate our will not to see sport tainted with dangerous practices motivated by profit alone. It was argued that, rather than enacting legislation, we could undertake symbolic measures. Such proposals are not irreconcilable with the choice to go through legislation: initiatives can be organized in parallel with the law. However, despite the commitment of the football bodies, it must be noted that few such actions have been carried out on their initiative for the past twenty-seven years. Sport is not just a market: it is a vector of social ties and a carrier of values shared by the vast majority of French – values that we, as legislators, must defend. If, of course, the law has a normative aim – in this case, it would create a ban – it also has, as we all know, a symbolic function. It is part of the history of a country, conveys a certain image of society and reflects the aspirations of the French. Unlike sports bodies, we are responsible for defending these aspirations and the general interest. It is therefore up to us to take responsibility for this today. [[Applause on all benches]] That's why the Socialist and related group endorses the slogan "no match on May 5" posted in many fora in France in May 2019, and will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u42	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u43	When one thinks of Furiani, it is the tragedy that immediately comes to mind. Twenty-eight years have passed since then. Yet it is not a year without remembering this national drama, which has marked small and large throughout France. On 5 May 1992, as the rapporteur pointed out, nineteen people died and several thousand were injured. In a matter of minutes, the collapse of the north platform turned a festive moment into an absolute horror. While this match was to be engraved in the football memory of Corsicans, it will remain as one of the greatest tragedies known to the island of Beauty. To host the semi-final of the Coupe de France, the club razed its 750-seat stand, without a demolition permit, and undertook to build a new 9300 seats, doubling the capacity of the stadium in eight days. The Corsican Football League has sent a favourable opinion to the French Football Federation, in total contradiction with the reservations expressed by the firefighters of the Security Commission. The work was completed only a few hours before the game was held, without the safety commission having been able to decide. The prefect remained absent and unreachable. The tickets were sold in the absence of any tariff reference and revenues were only very partially reported. The more the investigation progresses, the more one realizes that the lives of the supporters have been sacrificed to raise more money. To commemorate this drama, the text aims to prohibit the holding of any match of first and second divisions, Coupe de France or Trophée des champions on the 5th of May. We do not question the will expressed by the rapporteur, because we are well aware that the Professional Football League and the French Football Federation may not have done their utmost to properly commemorate this tragedy which has bereaved the discipline. Indeed, we all remember these atrocious images that marked our memories – and I am thinking at this moment of all families who have lost one or more of their own, as well as of all those who have been wounded and marked forever in their flesh and in their minds, and their families. In 2015, the Secretary of State for Sports, Thierry Braillard, had reached an agreement with the Professional Football League, which undertook not to organise a football meeting on Saturday, May 5. Thus, the games were postponed in 2018, but the following year was not the same, with May 5 this time falling on a Sunday. It is understandable that such an agreement was not likely to satisfy anyone. [[Applause on all benches]] If there is a consensus on the need to commemorate the tragedy of 5 May 1992, the ultimate challenge lies in how to do so. Today, all players observe a minute of silence and wear an armband in memory of the missing. One might wonder whether prohibiting by law from holding games on May 5 would better meet the memory requirement. However, the IDU, Agir and Indépendants Group wishes to accompany you, rapporteur, in your approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u44	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u45	I would like, in a word, to take note of the various interventions and to thank all the groups that have spoken. I also salute the Minister for her words and position: you are the first sports minister to want to endorse in the law what the Furiani tragedy has been. On behalf of all families and those who suffer, I thank you. [[Applause on all benches]] The comments made were clear: the subject was unanimous and did not give rise to debate. We can only take note of this and warmly thank all those who have spoken. In my personal capacity, I welcome the Freedom and Territory Group, which has allowed us to present this bill in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u46	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u47	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill. On the single article, I have a request from the Libertés et territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u48	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u49	[[Long applause on all benches]] If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like, before I get to the heart of the matter, to mention the ecological disaster that Corsica is experiencing at a time when we are talking about: when thousands of hectares are on fire and the Bavella massif is threatened, I would like to thank civil security personnel from the bottom of my heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u50	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u51	Whether they are firefighters or pilots of Canadair, they are more than 600, coming from several departments, fighting with all their heart against fire, day and night. The Bavella massif – for those who know it – is a bit the Cathedral of Notre-Dame de la Corse. I come to the human catastrophe that Furiani was. I can only evoke it with a lot of emotion. Like my colleague Jean-Jacques Ferrara, I was a medical student in Marseilles when the tragedy occurred. Then we were all together for a party; After a few seconds of incomprehension, we have experienced hours of anguish, without news from our loved ones. We then – to recount my personal experience – saw the arrival in Marseille hospitals of the waves of wounded hagards, reached so far thanks to the remarkable chain of solidarity that formed in a few hours. I wanted to call him back today. I still have my heart tied, because I think of this moment of celebration transformed into an insurmountable mourning. I want to thank here the collective of the victims of the Furiani disaster, which maintains the memory and pays the tribute to these victims. For this reason, we must no longer play or celebrate parties or victories on 5 May, as the President of the Republic, François Mitterrand, committed himself to it in the aftermath of the tragedy. A minute of prior silence will never justify an end-of-game joy being heard on the night of May 5. The merchants of the Temple should have understood for themselves that money cannot be taken from the supporters on the days of mourning. However, decency has not always been at the rendezvous, and finals or other matches were played on May 5th: it is in the face of this bad will that the legislator is forced to intervene – I assure you, in bad will. [[Applause on all benches]] The French team's winner, Didier Deschamps, who was present on the evening of the May 5, 1992 match, reminded him with great decency on May 5, 2010, while the Olympique de Marseille had won a title as champion of France: when we knew Furiani, we didn't party on such a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u52	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u53	I wanted to thank Michel Castellani and congratulate him: in addition to making a major contribution to football, the text presented to us has a value for the entire French community. On the day of the Furiani disaster, I was working for TF1 and preparing the 23-hour newspaper, when I was suddenly projected into this disaster. For two hours, live, without any specific information, I tried to make the French understand what was happening, to inform them and to question each other: I was helpless in this disaster. This impotence was an element of considerable frustration. Today, in a world that experiences immediate events, sensations and reflexes, we cannot build a society of trust – a society of solidarity – without living clearly with its history, with its memory. A society can only project itself in the future if, with the memory of past sacrifices, it makes them strong symbols. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups, and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For this reason, I agree with what has just been said: on 5 May, we must not play football or party – in memory of this moment, but also out of national solidarity. I will therefore, of course, vote in favour of the bill. I also hope that we will adopt the amendments that will be before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u54	I have before me an amendment No 2, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 7. Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u55	In the current editorial – "no encounter or sporting event organised in the framework or on the sidelines of the French professional championships of first and second divisions football, the Coupe de France de football and the Trophée des champions, is played on the 5th of May" – amateur football is not concerned by the bill. However, it seems important that the amateur football world pays tribute to the victims of the Furiani disaster by observing a minute of silence during the sporting meetings or events held on May 5 between amateur clubs. This consideration obviously includes the categories of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u56	I call Mr Le Bohec to support sub-amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u57	Before I defend this sub-amendment, I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the signatories to this bill. Almost a year ago, in Furiani, the Eleven parliamentarians commemorated this terrible disaster, and this bill makes it possible to realize the seriousness of the event that took place at this magnificent stage. [[Applause on all benches]] I also welcome the quality of the debates, which take advantage of the presence in the Chamber today of two sports ministers: Roxana Maracananu, the current minister, and Marie-George Buffet, a member of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, who is responsible for sport. Thank you both for accompanying this law. My sub-amendment tends to add the words "and professional, excluding those mentioned in the first sentence of this Article" after the word "adults". This makes it possible to avoid an exception unwittingly to the original wording of the amendment: although the National 1 Championship is considered amateur football, some clubs nevertheless have the status of professional. The purpose of the sub-amendment is therefore also to include meetings between professional clubs outside Ligue 1 and Ligue 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u58	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u59	The sub-amendment was not discussed in committee. On the other hand, the amendment gave a favourable opinion when, on my behalf, I had given an opinion of wisdom. Extending the measure to amateur football is, in itself, nothing scandalous, and even seems logical. But amateur football has nothing to do with the Furiani disaster. I also wanted to leave to the different football leagues the choice of the mode of commemoration, without locking them in the obligation of a minute of silence. This is obviously possible, and even desirable, but one could also imagine a day of reflection, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u61	This amendment raises a question that I myself asked during the debate between the collective of the victims of 5 May, the Ligue de football professionnelle and the Fédération française de football: is it more effective and useful to make this tribute visible, with matches broadcast on television, or should we respond to the demand of the collective of the victims by introducing a real symbolic measure, at the height of the Furiani disaster, while carrying out actions with young people, as you are already doing in Corsican territory, and in amateur football? Some amateur clubs have already dealt with this issue and have established tributes and commemorations. [[Applause on all benches]] At the end of these debates and discussions, what belongs to us of the Football League is that this commemoration will only take place if it is imposed by law. This is regrettable because, in our country, a federation, however rich and visible it may be – and fortiori if it is visible – must take its responsibilities. These, as you said in your speeches, are shared between the state, the organizers of the competition, the Federation and the League. Today, the state and the legislator take on their responsibilities. I was also concerned about the opinion of the local elected representatives of the majority: before this bill of the presidential majority, we took opinions, heard all the parties and, above all, listened to the demand of the victims' collective. Generally speaking, this symbolic bill, which provides for the ban on games on May 5, will respond to your request by introducing national recognition of this disaster. This must be a first step and it is quite reasonable to propose to go even further by also touching amateur football. Indeed, as you have all said in your speeches, it is important that football make its memory live, and that it fulfils its responsibilities to society. We will be present – and we are already here with the support we give to the French Football Federation – to support you in the steps you can take with amateur football to talk about these issues that are dear to us too. [[Applause on all benches]] The Government supports both the amendment and the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u62	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u63	These amendments are indeed important. I fully agree with Mr Castellani's remarks that the Furiani disaster was about professional football. However, some of today's amateurs will be tomorrow's professionals, and they need to know what happened and never forget it. Pedagogy is therefore important to them as well. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendment seems to me to raise an editorial problem. The minute of silence should only concern matches played on May 5. However, as drafted, the amendment is not very clear in this respect. Still, the intention is there and it is essential that the whole world of football be concerned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] Madam Minister, in reply to your comments, it is indeed unbearable that, twenty-eight years after the disaster, we are obliged to vote on this law because the bodies of the League and the Federation have not been at the time of history in the face of this memorial question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u64	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u65	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] I remember. As a former football player from Montpellier, I was well placed in front of my television set. I'm hurting, I'm hurting. The questions are coming. Why? How? Security rules? The money, maybe? The money, surely! I recall the statement made at that time by the President of the Republic, François Mitterrand, who said that there would be no more matches on 5 May. I'm a woman, a girl, a mother of three, and I don't forget. I hear the victims' collective and I understand their pain. As Vice-Chairman of the Defence and Armed Forces Committee, I consider it essential to commemorate every 5 May and to make all children aware of the importance of this date in amateur matches. We must tirelessly commemorate this day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u66	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u67	[[Applause on many benches]] Welcoming the fate of this amendment, I would like to say how much I have been touched by the dignity of Corsican civil society and by the patience and sense of responsibility shown by local and regional authorities and the elected representatives of Corsica. It's a great chance for us to have them with us. I would also like to stress the commitment of our Corsican national elected representatives. The values they uphold are great values of our country and I sincerely want to thank them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u68	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u69	The amendment we are considering concerns not only professional football, but the whole of French civil society and young people in our country. In fact, 99.9% of these young people will never be professional; sport, and football in particular, is above all a vehicle for social integration and education. For reasons of memory maintenance, for educational reasons, this amendment is important, because it will then be all the football players who will be concerned, including amateurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u70	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u71	MODEM will of course be in favour of this amendment and this sub-amendment, which really answer the question that we raised in our speech about the importance of transmitting Furiani's memory to future generations. Far from Corsica, perhaps we would soon forget why there are no matches on May 5. It is therefore important, on all grounds, to remember Furiani by this memorial gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u72	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u73	I'll echo Mrs. Bannier. The transmission of memory is done by the younger generations and this amendment has the advantage of including the categories of young people. The commemoration of the Furiani disaster will therefore, in the clubs, be a moment of pedagogy and transmission, so that this never happens again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u74	Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u75	[[Patricia Mirallès and Bruno Questel applaud]] This evening of May 5, 1992, it was supposed to be the football party in Furiani, and that was the drama. Life was wiped out in the face of death, in the dreadful sound of the collapse of the gallery. The bustle and the stupor still resonate in us. The culprits are numerous, but their motivation can be summed up in two words: greed and cowardice. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe justice to the victims and their families. Justice has passed and perpetrators have been convicted – perhaps not enough in the eyes of some, I hear it, but it is not up to us to comment on a judicial decision. To the victims and their families, we also owe respect. Respect is important. The one who does not respect life and memory, the victims and their families, deserves only contempt. But we respect life and memory. We respect the victims and their families. Respecting the victims and their families means changing the regulations on temporary equipment: it has been strengthened and tightened. That's how it is, because it was indispensable. Respecting the victims and their families also means remembering, over and over again, and thus commemorating to educate and to convey the values and ethics of sport, so that never again does a sports leader have the scandalous, shameful idea of taking a risk that would weigh on the lives of others for the sole purpose of profit. That is why we propose, with this amendment widely adopted yesterday in committee, that apart from the matches, that Article 1 proposes to freeze, when an official amateur match or an international match – which this law cannot aim for – is played on 5 May, the players and the members of the arbitral body wear a black armband as a sign of remembrance and respect. This simple armband will be the symbol of our hope for a better future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u77	This amendment was adopted in committee with an opinion of wisdom from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u79	Wearing a black armband will, of course, be one of the possible commemorations. However, in its current wording, the amendment also provides for this measure to be applied to international competitions, to which neither you nor I can impose it. I would like to deliver an opinion of wisdom, but, without change on this point, I should have to be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u80	Madam Minister, I need a clear opinion to inform the debate: is it a wisdom opinion or an unfavorable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u81	If the amendment is under-amended to exclude international competitions, I will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u82	The government can under-amend!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u83	I propose to make a sub-amendment to that effect, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u84	In order to be as precise as necessary, I shall briefly suspend the sitting so that the wording of this sub-amendment is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u85	The Minister therefore tabled a sub-amendment No. 8 to Amendment No. 6 by Mr Cormier-Bouligeon, which would delete the following words: "and during football matches in international competition". What is the opinion of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u86	Favourable opinion. The amendment, as amended, is no longer a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u87	You confirm, Madam Minister, that you are in favour of the amendment if your sub-amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u88	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u89	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u90	I shall vote for this amendment by my colleague Mr Cormier-Bouligeon, as amended. Like the minute of silence, this initiative is in line with the intervention of my colleague Géraldine Bannier, who spoke on behalf of MODEM. Too much violence still exists in sport: work to reduce them until they are removed. The ethics of sport, mentioned by Mr Cormier-Bouligeon, must be a priority. It also involves external signs and pedagogy. Although I understand the desire to make May 5 a white day in memory of the disaster, it seems to me that this sign worn by amateur players will make it possible to recall in a visible way, throughout the territory and with the sports population as a whole, what has happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u91	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u92	First of all, I want to say that we all remember the Furiani tragedy and express my deep compassion and deep empathy to all the families who are still marked by this national catastrophe in their flesh. However, I will not vote on this bill because, whatever the sympathy we may have with the victims, it is not up to us to legislate on emotion, on compassion. The commemorations, which must take place legitimately, in Corsica without doubt but also throughout the territory, in order to remember this type of disaster, simply do not fall within the scope of the law. [[Long exclamations]] I see the will of some oppositions to confront us with texts designed to assess our humanity, our empathy, our level of compassion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u93	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u94	That is not what your colleague Bruno Questel said earlier. Did you listen to him?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u95	[[Long Protests]] We've been a little scalded recently by this kind of test, trap. As far as I am concerned, I have absolutely no intention of letting myself be forced to testify, through a vote, of my deep empathy for the victims of the Furiani disaster. This is not a law, and I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u96	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u97	I will keep for myself all that is the register of the intimate, all that I experienced on May 5, 1992 – since I was present in the stadium that night. But this corresponds to what others have already mentioned: suffering, the war scene, the ballet of the helicopters, the voice of the speaker who said: "Don't kick your feet! Don't kick your feet! "... [[Applause on all benches]] I would like to turn to the collective of victims here. Some – I'm thinking of Vanina, Lauda, Josepha – lost someone that day: a father, a brother, a son, a grandfather, a friend. The others were wounded in their flesh; they cross daily in the streets of Bastia, and they carry the stigmas of this drama that they will live every day of the week, to repeat the words of Mr Castellani. But all also lived a journey of the cross for twenty-eight years. What should normally have been granted to them, the company, the state, the justice system, let alone the professional football league and the French Football Federation, did not grant it to them. For twenty-eight years, their rights were trampled. First there was a fight for justice, for recognition of responsibilities, and then a fight for a commemoration. Not only did such a ceremony not take place, but worse still, in 2012, for the twentieth anniversary of this tragedy, the final game of the Coupe de France was to take place on May 5th! And in 2010, the title of champion of France, acquired on May 5, had a bitter taste, as Didier Deschamps, then coach of the Olympique de Marseille, said at the time. By relativizing this disaster to this extent, and thus minimizing it, we have shown the utmost contempt. The power of money, as well as those responsible, were the strongest. This is not about compassion, it is about justice. [[Applause on all benches. – Many Members rise and continue to applaud]] If we are gathered here, it is for the law to protect the weakest, for it to be powerful in the face of the forces of money, in the face of those responsible, for it to erase these twenty-eight years of conflict, for it to fill the gap that has widened. We must do justice, recognition of suffering and reconciliation. For if the event itself was a tragedy, since people died, things were also played in Corsican society. I will not go back to these other tragedies linked to May 5, the collusion that then reigned. The role of the law is to make the work of mourning possible, but we must also convey the values of ethics, morality, respect and the idea that never, ever before, the forces of money must take precedence over life. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group has gladly voted on the amendment on amateur sport, with the agreement of the victims' collective, and that is why we invite you to vote unanimously on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u98	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u99	This is not a law of compassion, but a law of justice. It's about doing justice to the victims. We are forced to do so because the Professional Football League and the French Football Federation, which should have organized these tributes, did not, for financial reasons. It is therefore up to national representation to assume its responsibilities and take the initiative. This was the role of these organizations, as millions of lay-offs, millions of young people that football clubs form by teaching them the republican values of ethics, justice and compassion. But they stubbornly refused to pay the victims the indispensable tribute they deserved, and perverted these values. Today, we pay tribute to the victims, we do them justice and we make sure that, from now on, young people who will pass through the French Football Federation will know what has happened. We must go beyond the simple black armband and the minute of silence: these young people must know the reasons for this tragedy and know that the values of justice, equality, freedom and fraternity, which the Republic and also sport defend, must always be greater than the value of money. That is why the group La France insoumée is very proud to vote for this bill, thanks to which the speech of President François Mitterrand will be respected, and thanks to which, never again, we will play football on 5 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u100	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u101	May 5, 1992, was to be a football festival, a festival for Corsica, Marseille and Provence, whose destiny has always been mixed. It was a drama for families, a drama for supporters, a drama for football, a drama for the country, a drama that could have happened elsewhere, a drama of greed, money that corrodes, sport business that goes crazy. [[Applause on all benches]] There may have been, sometimes, the temptation to forget. We must not forget the tragedy and its causes. There is no hidden intention here, no intention other than that of symbolic reparation, as long as we can repair it. Therefore, in response to this worthy demand, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u102	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u103	I am speaking on behalf of the La République Group on the move. The Heysel Stadium in 1985, Hillsborough Stadium in 1989, Furiani Stadium in 1992... In the 1980s and 1990s, Europe deplored many tragedies which the federations sometimes had the dignity to recognize as such. This has been the case since 2014 in the United Kingdom, where each game that is played on April 12 starts seven minutes late: it was on that date that the Hillsborough drama claimed the lives of ninety-six Liverpool fans who were smothered in a stand where they died. The French Football Federation and the Professional Football League should have already adopted significant measures to recognize the pain of the victims. This symbolic bill is addressed to the entire community of football fans, to the entire ultra community, to all those people who, since the 1990s, have suffered only bullying, have only been targeted by repressive legislation and have been victims of a form of stigmatization that is now breaking out. [[Applause on all benches]] Things are changing: the Government has issued a circular on travel, the Assembly has set up a joint fact-finding mission on the regime of stadium bans and supporterism, of which I am the co-rapporteur with Marie-George Buffet. And because the delegates of the public service of sports have not done their job, it is up to the legislator to take care of it. That is why we should vote unanimously on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u104	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u105	I will be very brief because our colleague Ferrara has expressed what Members of the Republican Group think. I confirm that the latter will vote for the text, putting an end to a controversy that arises every year as the 5th of May approaches. We will thus render justice to the pugnacity and patience of the collective of the victims of 5 May. The Furiani tragedy, it was recalled, was not a mere fact of various Corsicans but a national catastrophe; It is therefore up to the nation to take responsibility and not only to the associations to organize themselves. [[Applause on all benches]] Mrs Lang, of course this text is not in the legislative field – we have all agreed in committee. But since, for twenty-eight years, those who should have taken such a decision have not done so, it is up to national representation to take responsibility on behalf of the Republic. So that's what we're going to do in a few minutes and, I hope, unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u106	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u107	The members of the MODEM Group respect, as I said, the choice of the victims' collective, the choice of the Corsican elected representatives. We really appreciate the pedagogical gesture that we have added to the text by amendment. It is important to pass on to future generations the memory of the scandal that was the Furiani tragedy. On the other hand, we call for national representation to be vigilant: the freezing of a day as foreseen by the text must remain rare, if not exceptional, and concern events that really deserve it – as is the case with the Furiani tragedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u108	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u109	Thanks to Michel Castellani for this bill. This debate was necessary and I thank those who have participated in it with the dignity that seems to me to be necessary. Of course, we have a number of ways to commemorate a drama, but nothing would be worse than shuffling on the symbol to choose from. The memory of the victims, the pain of the families, deserve our unity and, I would be tempted to say, our communion. We must be worthy because we are national representation; and we play our part. [[Applause on all benches]] What matters above all is that the memory of the victims of Furiani is never threatened by the spectre of oblivion. For this reason, May 5 must never again be a day like any other. That will now be the case. The members of the Socialist and Related Group will vote with all the solemnity it deserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u110	I put to the vote the single article, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u111	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 85 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u112	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u113	I would like to share with you my emotion and to thank, simply, the collective of the victims of May 5, 1992, for the fight he has waged for years – he is here in the stands. I also thank the minister for her comments. Finally, I thank you all for your contribution to the debate and for the dignity you have shown. I have a thought, at this moment, for those who are no longer, for those who have suffered, and for those who continue to suffer in their flesh, in their soul. [[Same movements]] Sport is not only physical, technical performance, it is also another thing: solidarity, dignity, fraternity, all of the principles that we share, defend and underpin this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u114	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u115	[[Same movements]] I, in turn, would like to thank the national representation for this moment. I take this opportunity to say, in front of you, to the sports movement, to the professional football league, to the Fédération française de football that we must measure the scope of what happened here this morning: it is a symbolic gesture, through which we take our share of responsibility in the fight led by the collective of the victims for many years. I invite the League and the Federation to continue this work of commemoration, hand in hand with the Collective and with the Ministry of Sports. We are living an important moment: that of sharing responsibility. I therefore invite the sports movement to take its part today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u116	I also have to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the minister, as well as the collective of the victims of the Furiani disaster who attended our debates. It was a nice parliamentary moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u117	The next item is the proposal for a law on the financing of mobile telephone infrastructures (No 2549, 2649).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u118	Mr Vigier, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u119	On behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group, I come to talk to you... about the territories, Mr Minister for City and Housing. You know that we have, in our body, the concern for effective public action. I'm here to talk to you about these territorial, social, digital, medical divides... Who didn't notice them? From Christophe Guilluy's wonderful work on peripheral France to the last paper written by the exceptional pen of a sociologist, everything shows that you are in charge of a ministry capable of changing destinies that are too often thought to be written in advance. I come to tell you strongly that we can only hear, in the territories, when digital, mobile telephony is changing everything, a large part of France is risking to stay away – a large part, yes, because the rural territories are 80% of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u121	I have come to express our conviction to you with force. Sylvia Pinel was assigned a few years ago to a ministerial department – where she had been able to act. We are well aware that we must face a considerable challenge. You have understood what I wish to talk to you about; You have, Minister, with courage, I say here, wished to take the problem in arms-to-body by launching your famous "new deal". [[Mr. Gaël Le Bohec applauds]] Parliament's role, especially in a day like this, is to monitor public action. But we can no longer have promises that are not kept, announcements that are without tomorrow. We can no longer allow the use of public money to be surrounded by all the guarantees that we are entitled to expect. This dossier, you have defended, and you have, I must say, made a considerable effort in the country with regard to the deployment of fibre optics. I remember the discussions on mobile telephony in 2016, when the one who was in your place – he became President of the Republic – had tried to see how we could change things. However, the Government has taken the decision to waive future licensing auctions, and on the occasion of the review of the 2019 Finance Bill, has taken the major decision not to charge the flat-rate taxation on network companies – IFER – by the operators. It is not a question of fighting against operators: I respect everyone's function. But when, as an operator, one is entrusted with the task of bringing public service throughout the territory under the best conditions, one has to respect certain requirements. Here we are talking about a few billion euros: licensing in 2012 amounted to 3.6 billion euros, licensing in 2015, 2.8 billion euros. We don't ask operators for a new gift! You have made a difficult political decision, at a time when public finances are very limited, which allows operators to put the package on poorly covered areas, with the very strong commitment for each operator to set up 5000 mobile structures by 2026. Yesterday morning, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the President of the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Post Office and Distribution of the Press, ARCEP, declared that we were moving on a false course. No! We are not on a false plate when, on the national territory, only six sites are in operation, compared with 485 planned. I think there's something abnormal there. I was told at the hearings that with such a bill, I was going to "force" communities. No! Words make sense: I only propose that communities be able to participate in the deployment of mobile sites. Minister, in the new deal, you have not only asked for better coverage, with 5000 sites per operator or obligations on roads, but you also want communications not to be interrupted every five minutes when travelling by train. How will operators respond to all this knowing that their investments have declined between 2018 and 2019? I'm not the one making it up: the numbers are hard-headed, they're implacable. More efficiency is what the Libertés et territoires group is looking for. We offer nothing but what has been required of communities for many years. In the area of digital development, in my region of the Centre-Val de Loire, the communities have put more than 800 million euros on the table to accompany the operators. As far as telephony is concerned, we simply propose co-financing of the development of the towers. On the other hand, we know that the maps drawn up from the operators' coverage diagnoses are false. Prefectural administrations, which conduct meetings on the cover state of their territory, work from fake maps. In Eure-et-Loir, we have signed a great agreement with La Poste so that the postal officers will make a diagnosis of the cover, house by house, farm by farm. On 25 April 2020, we will have the reading of 40,000 measuring points. We will have the real card, which we obviously have at your disposal, Minister. From this map, the number of antennas required can be estimated. The problem is that what is planned is one quarter of what would provide high-quality digital coverage and remove the current divide. The purpose of the bill is to tell our fellow citizens the truth, because they want to hear it. They don't expect to be told stories and promised that everything will be settled in a year or two. You won't be able to do this within that time! To move faster, communities that wish to do so must be allowed to act by legally securing them. What hypocrisy in the current situation! Some operators say: don't take care of the antenna, just take care of the connection. It's not serious! Others claim that they do not have the technical and industrial means to deploy enough antennas. This speech doesn't hold for a second! Give communities the opportunity to move faster! They will make a political choice. Each region, each department, will take on its responsibilities – many have already done so. Without that, minister, despite your road map, the results will not be there. The numbers are implacable! You'll tell me that we're only at the beginning of the new deal, but the re-visit clause applies in six months. I'd like to wait to make the accounts at the end of the fair: we'll see where we'll be in six months' time. We are told that the problem comes from elected officials who refuse a particular location, or from refractory populations. The goal is for everyone to take responsibility, people and elected. Our bill also protects you, minister. It will avoid the use of false noses and false appearances: here it took thirty months; There, it was complicated; elsewhere there was a connection problem, we couldn't do it or we didn't mutualize. No, it doesn't hold up! Thirteen years ago, I made sure to deploy, from eleven castles of water, a local radio loop on the territory for which I had responsibility. We were able to provide 2 gigabytes in both up and down flow; It was the adventure at a time when we didn't have 500 megabytes! With 5G, you will have to make a strategic choice for the country. Yesterday's remarks on this subject by Sébastien Soriano, the president of ARCEP, before the Committee on Economic Affairs, caused me some concern. He states that the call for tenders reserves 25 per cent of the envelope to rural territories. In other words, 25 per cent of the envelope will go to 80 per cent of the national territory. As you are a brilliant engineer, minister, you do not need me to make calculations to see the problem: again, it is the rural territories that will pay the bill! [[Applause on the benches of the LT and MODEM groups]] I once again welcome the Government's commitment to the new deal. I say "blavo", but I add that, as the President of the Republic has explained himself, when deciding a policy, it must be assessed and ensured that it is effective. Unfortunately, I'm afraid, and I'm even sure that, in the way things are going on in the field, we're not at the point of efficiency. Once again, this will lead our fellow citizens to no longer believe in the public word.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u122	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u123	Mr Vigier, thank you, as well as your group, for putting this issue on the agenda – it was important to do so with regard to the new deal, in an evaluation period. Your comments are, in many respects, the same as those I have maintained for the past two and a half years, since I have been in charge of the Government's case. First of all, there is no appeal. For years, it was considered that digital and mobile telephony would help to reduce territorial divides. Not only has this not been the case, but, worse still, these innovations have aggravated territorial divides. I'm talking about a reality that many French people live on a daily basis as we keep repeating: don't worry, soon you'll have digital, mobile phone, internet, and everything will be better! Then, you showed it, you had to change paradigms and wonder why, after the same speech was resounded for years, the deployment of digital and telephony was still not fast enough. That's what we did with the new deal. It required moving lines – including within the Government, I'm not hiding it from you. It had to be assumed that each auction prior to a new deployment meant, de facto, that the State was organizing a system that led operators to settle in areas of high profitability. I come to the urgent need for full transparency in the deployment of the various devices. I fully share your position on this matter. With regard to the deployment of digital technology, when I set two years ago the goal of increasing from 2 million to 4 million plugs in two years, everyone explained to me that this would be impossible. This year, two years later, we will have more than 4 million catches – 4.2 or 4.3 million. Each working day, 14,000 households become fibre-connectable, twice as many as two years ago. It is absolutely essential to continue at this rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u124	Above all, thanks go to the communities, especially the regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u125	With regard to the new deal that is the subject of the bill, I would like to take stock and talk about the feeling of the ground before we learn lessons. To take stock of the New Deal, it must be pointed out that, since January 2018, 5111 sites have moved from old technologies to 4G. In total, at the end of 2020, 10,000 villages, towns and territories will have benefited from this development. I insist that such a high pace is possible only through the involvement of the communities. This deployment takes place by modifying the active equipment of the existing towers without the need to install new ones. We must mention the new sites, the new towers, the famous 5000 sites that each operator has to install – some to be shared. It is estimated that 10,000 to 15,000 new towers will be built on our territory – it will probably be 12,000 towers. Consider that in 2016, when the umpteenth plan to combat white areas – I remember, I was present – was launched, 600 more towers were planned! From 600 to 12,000, you see how different ambitions are and how strong ours is. Since 2018, 1361 sites have been notified to operators, who must build them within two years; 485 of these sites are expected to operate before June 2020. At the moment I'm talking to you, 37 towers are working, and work is underway to install another 123. As you have proposed, Mr Vigier, and Mr Roland Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would be happy to share with you the report that will be drawn up at the end of June. When I signed the new deal in January 2018, I imposed that it be under the seal of ARCEP, so that this agreement does not constitute a mere collection of commitments of goodwill between a Government and operators, contrary to what was happening before. There was a need for binding commitments under the control of ARCEP, a real gendarme who has a very strong sanctioning power, the possibility to challenge, and who exercises total vigilance. ARCEP is independent, but it knows my position: I want all the sanctions to be taken if the operators fail to comply with their commitments. Full compliance with article L. 36-11 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code is required. I will be extremely vigilant so that deployments can take place. I'm going uphill. Mr Vigier knows that I will never hide behind my little finger: it is up to us from the ground that this is not going fast enough. Only 37 sites currently operate out of the 485 planned by June because there are many ongoing projects. Of course, the remaining four and a half months will allow them to be completed. The new deal provided for the possibility that the two-year time limit would be reduced to one year. This requires the community to make viable land available to operators. Of the 485 sites, only two communities chose this option, which shows that we still have progress to make in accelerating deployment. We had these discussions before when we debated the housing, development and digital development bill, known as the ELAN Act, particularly its digital component. Nevertheless, there is a feeling that deployment is not fast enough. How can I do that? There is no love, there is only evidence of love: it is necessary to ensure that the 485 sites work, and that the 5111 sites already in 4G are added to the approximately 5000 other sites planned. Project teams must also be able to impose the location of the tower. I know your involvement in this matter in your territory, Mr. Vigier; I know you were there at the last project team meeting a few days ago. Yesterday, when an agreement was reached with the operators, they were asked to install 600 towers, leaving them free to do so wherever they wanted. Worse, they had no obligation to connect the tower, and they only paid for the active equipment – the tower was the responsibility of the community. As a result, of the 600 sites planned by the 2016 program, only about 100 towers are now active. Of the approximately 12,000 towers in the new program, 485 are expected to operate in June, and more than 1300 will be in place in the coming months. In the long run, 12,000 sites will be installed. Finally, I turn to the fundamental question posed by your bill: how can we speed up deployment? It proposes to amend the right to identify sites on the one hand, and to finance on the other. Your bill seems to me to express a very strong will, which I share, alert and follow-up – the desire to put pressure back in the tube – the expression is trivial but the action, necessary. However, does the law have to change certain rules, as you propose? I believe, for my part, that no, for two reasons that I would like to explain. In fact, site identification can only be carried out by the project team. But the devil hides himself in the details: the project team determines the territory where to implant the tower; the decision on the precise location must go not through the law, but through action on the ground. We also have a difference of opinion on funding: I believe that it is fundamentally good for it to go back to the operators and not to the communities. At the same time, there is nothing to prevent a community from participating in the funding. Finally, the result is a balance of forces between the state, communities and operators. And this expression is not pejorative: the balance of power moves things forward. With the firm conviction that it is not the law that will speed up the deployment of the mobile phone, I would gladly propose that you create this balance of forces with the operators, under the auspices of my ministry, in my presence, thanks to all the local files that you, MPs, bring up as you go. I propose that, before the end of February, all the operators concerned and all the Members who wish to do so in my ministry should be convened to discuss all the difficulties that you observe on the ground – on the sole condition that you communicate them to me in advance, so that I can pass them on to the operators. They will have to report directly to you on all the projects, in my presence or in the presence of my teams. This is how we move forward in life: a little pressure in the tube is needed, especially in relation to such an essential issue as the deployment of digital and mobile telephony for our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This is the proposal that I am making to you, Mr Vigier, thanking you and the Freedom and Territory Group for putting on the agenda this subject, which is a matter of urgent necessity and is the subject of a commitment that you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u126	In the general debate, Mrs Sylvia Pinel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u127	Our group has formed around the ambition to bring to the Chamber the voices of the territories, their specificities and their diversity. So how could we envisage our first parliamentary niche without a text addressing the first divide that is going through our territories: the digital divide?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u128	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u129	We have already had the opportunity to address this issue, but we have to repeat it: in some areas, our citizens have difficulty accessing not 4G, not even 3G, but sometimes simply the mobile telephone network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u130	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u131	Such a situation cannot continue. Just over two years ago, the Government announced the signing of a new mobile deal between operators and the State, which is supposed to accelerate mobile digital coverage of the territory. In the face of this historic agreement, we have expressed our hope and vigilance. Hopefully because we shared the choice of the state to give up part of the financial manna of the frequency auctions – avoiding the historical error of the sale of 3G frequencies – in return for an ambitious deployment schedule. Vigilance because – I am well placed to know – the commitments made by the actors often struggle to translate into reality, summarising themselves to advertising effects. Recall the objectives of this new deal: to generalize access to 4G throughout the network by the end of 2020; improve coverage on transport routes and inside buildings; above all to ensure quality access to the network in targeted areas. I am very pleased to acknowledge the success of the implementation of the new deal in terms of the generalisation of 4G on the existing network. However, we expected that given the financial concessions made to operators when certain frequency bands were reassigned without an auction, or the decrease in the IFER. Usefully recalled, the previous auctions on frequencies had reported 3.6 billion euros to the state funds in 2012 and 2.8 billion euros in 2015. The same is not true for the targeted coverage device. The observation is almost the same as we were able to make in 2018: the fractures persist in our territories. However, digital design is of crucial importance. As a result, the current situation is fuelling frustration and the sense of abandonment of the inhabitants in these poorly covered areas, i.e. in the rural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u133	Worse, it endangers the development and attractiveness of these territories. A colleague said in committee that "the time of the operators was not that of the citizens"; This argument is not audible to our fellow citizens, who have waited too long and see no tangible improvement in the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u135	What is the targeted coverage? It requires the four operators to cover, each, 5000 new areas thanks to new mobile sites, by 2026. We know that it is not 20,000 sites that will eventually be deployed, but a maximum of 12,000, due to the sharing of certain mobile sites between operators. Either, but don't let that happen to the detriment of the quality of the cover! In addition to the problem of the limited number of towers planned, there is the question of the ability of operators to meet the deadlines set. To date, the Government has issued four orders identifying 1177 areas to be covered by operators under the targeted coverage scheme. Where are we? As of December 2019, of the 485 targeted coverage sites of the first order, only 6 were actually in service. It is likely that next July, at the time of the first progress report, commitments will not be met. The president of ARCEP, Sébastien Soriano, told us yesterday in substance, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, as Philippe Vigier recalled in substance; As early as July 2019, ARCEP issued an advance notice to the four operators. On the ground, we find great disparities in the application of the new deal. While it provided for consultation between local elected officials and operators in order to determine the location of the sites, local project teams were sometimes pressured to impose on them the location of the mobile site. Thus, a tower can be both designed to cover the transport axes and to respond to the targeted device, sometimes at the expense of the quality of the coverage of the area. In the face of these practices, local elected officials are deprived. Moreover, they cannot rely on a reliable map of the cover in order to contest the locations proposed by the operators: the one provided by ARCEP does not correspond to the reality of the terrain. They also lack information on the 4G deployment schedule. These same local elected officials are on the front line when citizens question them about failing digital coverage, when they suffer the consequences of the loss of attractiveness of their territory. To correct this bias, the Liberties and Territories Group took the initiative to table this bill. Its purpose is twofold: to ensure the role of local authorities in selecting targeted sites for coverage and to enable those wishing to contribute to the financing of infrastructure. I recalled that, at the present time, if communities are actually involved in determining the coverage areas, operators retain control of the location of the mobile site. This hinders the involvement of local actors, who may sometimes be reluctant to provide serviced land to operators. This is regrettable because the cooperation of the elected representatives would make it possible to divide by two the maximum time allowed to the operators to set up the sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u137	We therefore felt it necessary to reaffirm the importance of the work to be done at the local level to prepare for the arrival of mobile sites. Article 1 also provides for the possibility for local and regional authorities to participate in the financing of the targeted coverage scheme in the event of an agreement with the State and operators. This provision questioned some. Some people tell us that operators have already benefited from a state-wide gesture to deploy 4G everywhere. It is true – as I have already mentioned – that the new mobile deal provided for all costs to be borne by operators, but this amendment would remove the concerns of local and regional authorities about their ability to intervene to financially support the deployment of targeted coverage sites. This applies mainly to areas where coverage is the worst or longest to be deployed. Finally, this proposal does not intend to call into question the framework of the new mobile deal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u138	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u139	The rapporteur has said this, and I repeat it again, so that our intentions are clear. In this context, why not leave it to the communities who wish to do so – and only to them – at the level of a department, to agree to go faster and, if necessary, to invest a little, simply in the name of the principle of free administration? Finally, outside the scope of this text, I cannot talk about mobile coverage without projecting myself into the future. The future is 5G, a technology full of promises but which raises many questions in terms of independence, data protection, public health protection and, of course, spatial planning. In practice, the deployment of 5G will involve the flow-up of existing 4G antennas and then the installation of 5G antennas. The generalization of 4G is therefore an essential step in ensuring that the ambitious pace envisaged by ARCEP and the Government can be maintained; If not, we are going to take a detrimental delay on our European competitors. Also, the laudable objectives set by ARCEP in its terms of reference – 20 to 25% of the sites covered in 5G, in 2025, in rural areas – ask me. While operators are struggling to meet their 4G commitment, will they be able to do better for 5G?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u140	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u141	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u142	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Let us not take the risk of perpetuating current inequalities to the detriment of the new generation. Let us give the actors concerned, first and foremost the local authorities, a real role in the digital planning of the territory. Let us give some flexibility to the current system of the new deal. This bill does not have the ambition to remove all obstacles, but it aims, through an operational mechanism, to do what the French ask us every day: to speed up the deployment of 4G.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u143	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u144	Minister, two years ago, you signed the new mobile deal, a historic deal that actually represents a €2.8 billion gift to the four operators – Free, Orange, SFR and Bouygues – in exchange for their promise to absorb the white areas in two years. The deadline has expired, we are there, and the table has been drawn up by the rapporteur: 40% of the territory and 11% of the population are deprived of 4G; Of the 485 targeted sites promised, only 6 are actually in service. [[Laughs on various benches]] What are we being offered as a solution? Since operators are not doing the job, despite the 2.8 billion that have been given to them, it is proposed to allow local and regional authorities to participate in the financing of infrastructure. You will understand my deepest disagreement! Operators behave as lords: they are the ones who choose the few places where they want to install the 4G. To do this, they've received billions, and now we're told that the communities are going to put it back in the pot! The French will pay again! This solution seems incomprehensible to me. These lords, you have to bleed them! We have to punish them, hit them in the wallet, penalize them! We have to get these billions back because after two years, they didn't do the job you asked them to do, minister! Otherwise, it is of course a two-speed telephone that continues. "In order for the [European Union] to continue to take the lead, I have launched an initiative without delay to accompany and accelerate our research efforts in Europe on 6G. This is the idea that came to Thierry Breton, the former boss of France Télécom, barely appointed European Commissioner. Social Europe, tax harmonisation, they have been expected for 30 years; But what seems urgent to Mr Breton for our peoples, for our future? Run ahead and accelerate the deployment of 6G. We don't have 5G yet in our country, but he's already at 6G! It's a race, but a race to madness! Who's she dreaming again? What is the meaning of progress? Is it still technology that guides it? What inventions will these investments serve in billions, tens of billions? To the connected jacket for horse, who controls the heartbeats? To "autolacing" Nike sneakers? To the connected fork that sends a vibration if we eat too fast? Watching how much time we have left to live? Or the decapsulator who sends a notification to our friends when we open a beer? This is the direction of progress: it is an endless race, a race towards the abyss. In our view, progress depends on ties rather than goods, it is clear. When we have as the only horizon to offer for Europe, as a course for our continent, despite our history and our feelings, only 6G, we must see it as a symptom of a vacuum, of a political vacuum, of a vacuum of hope. While the 6G gallops in Brussels, while we promise the 5G to the metropolises, the executives, the connected, Bussus-Bussuel in the Somme, postal code 80135, always waits for the 2G, the dumb cell phone, just to phone. For the moment, in Bussus, you can only pick up at the cemetery – it's convenient for zombies, ghosts and still-living people... Why do 3% of French people still have no network at their disposal? Why have hundreds of municipalities in the Somme, Haute-Marne, Dordogne, Meuse and Aveyron been waiting for more than twenty years? The deployment started in 1992: why, 27 years later, 40% of the territory did not access 4G, while there are four operators, Orange, Bouygues, SFR and Free? This is precisely because they are four operators, who think profitability and non-service to the public, who think profit and non-equality of the territories. They split market shares in urban areas but abandon the countryside. Let's take a comparison. What would have happened if, in the post-war period, electricity and PTTs had been left in the hands of the private sector? There would still be no electricity or fixed telephone in Bussus-Bussuel, nor in many other French territories. We obviously believe that there is a need for a public tool, at the service of the public – of the whole public – that does not leave hundreds of Bussus-Bussuel aside.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u145	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u146	Mobile and digital coverage of our territories is an essential topic. And because: solving the problems posed would be to stem the digital divide, to overcome the territorial divide and to respect the principle of equality among all citizens. In the face of digital technology, we are not all equal. Many plans have followed in an attempt to improve the infrastructure and coverage of our territories, but demand remains persistent. Depending on whether you live in a big city or in the countryside, you don't have access to the same speed. This is all the more true for those who use the mobile telephone network. We're talking about a 5G pass, even before 4G is accessible to all French people. However, there are certain areas where it is simply impossible to have access to a network: the famous white areas. This is a problem for both individuals and professionals. I am thinking, for example, of a young farmer from my constituency in Allier. Right now, it's calving season. Thanks to current technologies, it is possible to stay at home at night to monitor livestock remotely, from your smartphone, thanks to a camera: if a problem occurs, the farmer can move around and help the cow calving. However, as the network is not of good quality, it is difficult for this farmer to receive a clear enough video to identify problematic situations. The result is an inefficient work tool, which requires regular visits. A territory not or poorly covered by the mobile telephone network is a territory where people find it more difficult to settle. This is one of the conclusions of the evaluation report on access to public services in rural areas that Jean-Paul Mattei and I have drawn up. Our first proposal was to provide them with high-speed digital coverage. This is one of the most obvious criteria for attractiveness. According to the statistics published in the Digital Barometer, in 2018, 46% of the population over 12 years of age connected to the Internet mainly on their smartphone, 4 points more than in 2017. In addition, 61% of smartphone holders connected to the Internet through the 4G network, 20 more points in two years. It's a good measure of what's at stake. The new mobile deal and the ELAN law of 2018 are the most recent responses to this problem. The new mobile deal is the result of an agreement between ARCEP, the operators and the Government to accelerate mobile coverage of the territories. In particular, it aims to bring 4G to more than 1 million French people living in 10,000 municipalities which, at the end of 2017, did not benefit from it. The goal was also to remove the white areas. The whole project is based on the promise of the operators to invest 3 billion euros and to install, by 2022, 5000 antennas each. By the end of December 2019, operators had activated 5100 pylons in this framework. As at 31 March, the Fédération française des télécoms indicated that approximately 15,000 sites remained to be moved to 4G and stressed the acceleration of deployment. However, inequalities persist by place of residence. In rural areas, the average real flow up and down is still much lower than that of intermediate and dense areas, despite the announcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u148	The Government has requested the deployment of new shared sites between operators to cover areas where no operator provides good mobile telephone service coverage. To date, the government has requested the opening of 1,171 sites. Only 4 – the figure of 6 was advanced earlier, so we are progressing – have been put into operation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u149	Thirty-seven!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u150	Thirty-seven? This is progressing. But we're not reaching the 1171 target yet! Comparing these figures with the goal of deploying the first 485 sites by mid-2020, it seems normal for us to ask ourselves questions. However, some municipalities have issued permits to start the installation, but nothing is going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u151	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u152	[[The rapporteur applauds]] This bill seems to us to be very timely. Article 1 gives a form of power of action on digital matters to local and regional authorities, since they will be able to define the different sites to be equipped, in agreement with the State and mobile telecommunications operators. In addition, this article seeks to authorise the financial participation of the authorities which so wish, which will be covered by the double pledge scheme provided for in Article 2. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LT groups]] For these reasons, and because the coverage of the mobile network is a key issue, the GDR Group will vote in favour of the freedom and territory group's proposal for a law, with the hope that the state will finally become aware of the stakes, will finally assume its responsibilities, in order to force operators who think business rather than planning the territory. Our vote will therefore also be a hairy vote to scratch, because the state is failing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u153	I hope it's as good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u154	Yes, Mr.President Vigier, we all recognize that the impatience is great.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u155	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u156	It is great because the needs are real. Our businesses and citizens need to be able to do business online or grow their business. It is a condition for the development of our territories. That is why our Government, by signing the new deal with the operators, has deprived itself of at least €2 billion of licence revenues: in order to reduce the inequality of coverage between large cities and rural areas. Most commitments will be fulfilled. One year after the start of this new deal, 5100 4G sites were activated and indoor coverage developed. The deployment speed was multiplied by five. The dynamics are therefore good. One point, however, raises the question: targeted coverage. Its results are not yet visible in the field since, it is true, only 37 sites have been put into operation on the 1171 scheduled. ARCEP, however, after putting the operators on notice last summer, is confident on the delivery of the first tranche, and its president, Sébastien Soriano, assured us yesterday in the hearing that it would be intractable on the fulfilment of the commitments. I understand your impatience and that of the local elected officials, who sometimes feel helpless in the face of the operators; However, I am reserved as to the mechanism you are proposing. Municipalities and departments are already involved in the identification of areas from which the State draws up lists of sites established by ministerial decree. There is therefore no point, in my view, in formalizing the identification by a law. The questions to be asked are about deployment, provided by the leading operator. Local dialogue would benefit from improving by fully involving all stakeholders. This would no doubt make full use of the mechanisms of the scheme, including the provision of serviced land, which accelerates the delivery of the site by one year. However, no such project has been requested. The reasons for this need to be sought and a solution found, but it will not be a legislative one. Another problem is the cartographic data provided by the operators to ARCEP, concerning both the quality of the coverage data and the forecasts of the construction of new sites. ARCEP has just launched a consultation to improve this situation before the end of the year. With the launch of the 5G auction, operators will also have to provide their deployment forecasts for all technologies. ARCEP thus anticipates the new obligations of the European Telecom Code, which will be transposed into the future audiovisual bill; We can ensure that all types of coverage are specified. As for community participation in funding, it would undermine the spirit of the new deal, in which operators committed themselves to funding the sites in exchange for the extension of the licences. The communes, through the Association of Mayors of France and the presidents of intercommunality, are opposed to this provision, which would actually increase their charges. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why, although I share the impatience of the local elected representatives and the inhabitants of the communes concerned, I will vote against the bill and call on the members of the La République group to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u157	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u158	The objective of the 5G Act was to achieve a stable, predictable and operational arrangement that would not slow down the deployment of current and future networks. With a tenfold increase in the number of administrative decisions needed to set up the networks, however, there was much to bet that problems of slowness would arise. Despite Emmanuel Macron's promises of a France fully covered at high and very high speed by 2020, the account is not there. That is why I thank the Libertés et territoires Group and its president and rapporteur, Philippe Vigier, for putting this crucial and thorny subject of mobile telephony deployment in our rural areas on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u159	For the equality of territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u160	The purpose of this proposal for a law is to improve the involvement of local and regional authorities in the development of mobile network coverage on their territory, in order to achieve the targets set for the resorption of grey and white areas, but also with the aim of reducing inequalities in access to the network between rural areas, which are experiencing difficulties in connecting, and urban areas, which are hyperconnected. In a world also ultra-connected and at the dawn of the 5G, many municipalities are not yet properly covered by the mobile network. Digital France is at two speeds: those who will have 5G tomorrow and those who still have no mobile telephone network today;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u161	Very many!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u162	... those who can watch a movie in high definition on their smartphone and those who are forced to contort by raising their arm through the window on the second floor to hope to be able to send a text if the wind blows in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u163	That's a lot of experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u164	The Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities estimates the number of white areas to be dealt with at 1171, in which it is impossible to make any appeal. Let's not talk about communes located in so-called grey areas, in which you can hardly have any internet connection. According to ARCEP, 22,500 of them represent 18% of the population and 63% of the national territory. Many of our fellow citizens rightly live this digital divide as a profound injustice. The idea of the bill is to empower local authorities to play a major role in the faster development of our mobile network, by allowing them to decide where new mobile equipment will be installed, or at least to be properly associated with decisions. Local elected representatives measure daily the difficulties faced by citizens due to a non-existent or deficient telephone network; They must be part of the solutions: that is the meaning of this bill, and the Republicans Group fully subscribes to it. On the other hand, we are more reserved in terms of provisions for the financing of towers by communities. On the one hand, their finances are expansive, as a result of various declines in State allocations. We doubt that they can allocate a budget to the costs of creating and maintaining the network, especially since they already finance certain investments, particularly in connection with connection and extension of networks. On the other hand, having the towers financed by the communities is, in practice, tantamount to offering a gift to the operators, who do not ask for it so much, which is all the less justified because they owe us the funding for the extension of the mobile network. In fact, under the new mobile deal, their operating licences were freely renewed. Moreover, ARCEP had relied on this renewal free of charge so that operators could preserve their infrastructure investment capacities. Therefore, they have no excuse for delay. Above all, they should not understand this PLP as an authorisation to discharge their obligations to take over infrastructure – and I know, Mr rapporteur, that this is not your intention. Beyond a piece of legislation, I believe it is necessary for the Government to ask operators to invest increased financial, human and engineering resources to validate the exact location and initiate the appropriate administrative procedures. In addition, the Government needs to clarify how the new mobile deal on road and rail routes will be implemented without delay. For the time being, we are lacking concrete information on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u165	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u166	Mobile network coverage is a major spatial planning issue, over which our country has fallen far too far behind our European neighbours. Time is running out, anger is rumbling in the territories. The Government must be firm and proactive. Therefore, the Republican Group, despite certain reservations, I repeat, welcomes this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u167	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u168	We consider it to be an appeal to the Government urging it to put pressure on the operators, so that they comply with the agreements of the new mobile deal, which are good agreements, as our colleague Jérôme Nury, Member of Parliament for Orne, indicated in this rostrum, when they were adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] As you have understood, we will vote in favour of the bill, and thank the Libertés et territoires group once again for having tabled it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u171	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u172	While the Committee on Economic Affairs is regularly seized of texts relating to the mobile and digital coverage of the territories, it is rarer for us to debate them in the Chamber. I would therefore like to thank President Vigier and the Libertés et Territoires Group for putting on the agenda of their parliamentary niche the consideration of a bill on the implementation of the new mobile deal. This gives us an opportunity to discuss the deployment of mobile telephony infrastructures and to take stock of a particularly important subject, which in some territories is a cause for serious concern among our citizens. There is a considerable challenge – you have reminded him, Mr Vigier – here. As we have seen recently, during the presentation by our colleagues Laure de La Raudière and Éric Bothorel of the information report on the digital coverage of the territory, and no later than yesterday, in committee, at the hearing of the president of ARCEP, digital is an opportunity for France, and above all a necessity. If, for some territories, especially the major cities, the trivialisation of the digital reality in everyday life makes us forget how important it is for the future, for others, the lack of access to digital technology is a factor of exclusion. On this point, the figures are eloquent: to date, in France, more than 13 million people still have limited or no access to digital technologies. Nevertheless, progress has been made since the beginning of the quinquennium. In January 2018, ARCEP and the Government announced, when presenting their new plan, that operators had made concrete commitments to accelerate the coverage of mobile telephony territories. I recall that we were among the last in the European rankings two years ago. The aim is to quickly integrate its first third. In the explanatory memorandum to your bill, you consider that the time limits provided for in the new deal are far too long. It is true that operators' services fail to calm the impatience of citizens, who live the digital divide as an injustice. The slow deployment of the mobile network is all the more incomprehensible because promises that very high-speed traffic would arrive very quickly in the territories have been circulating everywhere. We are now confronted with the principle of reality: this deployment takes much longer than originally planned, mainly for technical and material reasons. As we pointed out in committee, however, the new mobile deal aims to speed up digital coverage across the country and to engage operators in a more balanced dialogue with communities. A margin of progress could be exploited, particularly in the area of network mapping and deployments, which remains imprecise and fragmented, as too often in the area of land-use planning. Personally, I hope that the dialogue that is supposed to be reinforced by the new mobile deal will be applied at all levels. In fact, national agreements concluded between mobile telephone operators and large groups sometimes escape local elected representatives. In this regard, my constituency offers a perfect example, as I indicated in committee. In Bethune, an operator was to deploy a relay antenna on the parking lot of a large distribution area. However, the mayor was not involved, upstream, in this choice. However, opening a dialogue would have allowed local elected officials to launch an awareness and communication campaign to defuse the concerns raised by the health risks caused by the airwaves. Moreover, a petition was launched. On this point, I would like us to implement the recommendations of the information report on the digital coverage of the territory aimed at strengthening the role of local actors, in particular during the preliminary stages of identifying and managing the areas to be covered. This would make it possible to align the agenda of national and local policy teams with that of digital players, thus strengthening their coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u173	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u174	The goal is to accelerate decision-making and strengthen the role of communities, sometimes hostile to antenna and fibre deployment. In this regard, it may be necessary to ensure that RHAs – regional health agencies – are seized in order to reassure the public. The MODEM and related group therefore prefers to value the strengthening of the local consultation carried out by the operator and the municipalities. It seems inappropriate for communities to make a financial effort in this area. Operators must fully finance the sites, in accordance with the obligations set out in their authorisations for the use of frequencies, and the State has given them the means to do so. [[Ms. Géraldine Bannier applauds]] Mr rapporteur, we agree with you on the need to further speed up the process of mobile coverage of the territory, but we believe that a bill, as it stands, is not the right legislative vehicle to act in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u175	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u176	This bill leads me – once it is not customary – to argue instead in favour of a government measure, because it is in the right direction, if we are in a position to ensure that it is implemented – the new mobile deal. Far from me the idea that the mobile coverage of our territory would be perfect. Far be it from me that no effort is needed in this area. On the contrary, we must make efforts, and I thank Mr Vigier for his bill, which is based on this spirit. Let me recall the paradigm shift introduced by the new mobile deal, which is to have operators finance fully the sites where mobile telephony infrastructures are located. Let me also point out that we are not here in the field of public service, which I regret, I say as clearly as possible. Finally, this is a measure that is favourable to the territories that do not control the finances of the communities. They have already put a lot of money in the towers. They have put and continue to put a lot of money into the deployment of broadband and very high-speed, particularly through public initiative networks. In many cases, the communities that had to get their hands on their hands are the most rural, and therefore the most modest, while the most wealthy communities had nothing to do, because the operators came on their own, attracted by the attractive smell of the cake. So how can we explain that a bill proposes to invest public money in the deployment of new mobile phone sites? Rest assured: operators do not need the generosity of the taxpayer to achieve the objective assigned to them! Not only – others have reminded me before – the allocation of frequencies was offered to them in 2015, in the absence of an auction, i.e. a gift of nearly 3 billion euros, but they will, be certain, gain a lot of money with the deployment of the mobile network, which will eventually lead to the construction of several thousand additional sites. In another part of the bill, it is hoped that communities will freely choose the areas they intend to be served. From this point of view, the general interest and neutrality require that the State, as a guarantee of a balanced planning of the territory, be the force of proposal. In addition, respect for communities and their intimate knowledge of the territory requires that local elected officials make their priorities known. In order for the balance between the various actors in the choice of areas to be covered to be respected, it is essential that the prefects make the project teams live, as most of them do very well. If some do not, it is up to you, minister, to remind them of their obligations, and I have no doubt that you do so. If the project teams function properly, then the identification of the areas to be covered as a priority is carried out in good intelligence and the elected officials have the hand to identify them. Above all, I would like to point out that once the decrees are published, operators are obliged to build the sites, in 24 months if the municipality does not make any land available to them in 12 months if it does so. We must probably work to improve the provision of land by the municipalities, which remains very insufficient. It seems to me that there is a point of weakness that can be corrected, which would clearly speed up deployments. Finally, as a last resort, ARCEP must carry out its monitoring tasks. She must above all – I say it as clearly as possible – take out her ticket book when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u177	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u178	If we want the new mobile deal not to be a failure, the pressure on operators must be real. The 12-month period, which is necessary if the municipality makes a serviced land available to operators, cannot be the subject of any concession. This is about the credibility of the new deal. Before concluding my remarks, I would like to alert you, Minister, about the state of the fixed telephone network. In my department, in Ardèche, it's a shipwreck.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u179	Not just in Ardèche! Everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u180	In Eure-et-Loir too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u181	[[Smile]] I grant you, ladies and gentlemen, but allow me to plead for my department!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u182	It's been twelve years since I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u183	In my department, some users have been deprived of fixed telephones, thus ADSL, for several weeks or even months: fire brigades, self-employed workers at home, thus deprived of their working tools, and, even more serious, of elderly people placed under remote surveillance. Some of them will one day fall to the ground, press the call button for help and have no one at the end of the line. I'm telling you, if we let the fixed telephone network deteriorate further, there will be dead people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u184	There's already been one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u185	In my department, older people will press the call button with remote surveillance without any help. It would be incomprehensible to our fellow citizens that we give priority to the deployment of very high-speed and mobile telephony without being able to maintain the fixed telephone network as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u186	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u187	For all these reasons, you will have understood, the Socialist and related group will not be able to support the bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u188	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u189	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Moetai Brother also applauds]] ...even if he shares the spirit and feels it necessary to speed up the deployment of the mobile network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u190	Errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u191	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u192	First of all, I would like to thank Philippe Vigier, our rapporteur, for putting on the agenda a piece of legislation on a matter of major concern for rural dwellers: good quality mobile network coverage. I apologize because I have not been able to listen to the speech of our rapporteur or that of the Minister. However, on behalf of the IDU Group, I would like to express the importance of the subject in an independent way. In Saint-Denis-des-Puits, my little village, the mobile signal does not pass in the town hall, in the middle of the city center!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u193	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u194	If we get out of the building, three times out of four, the signal doesn't pass either. Every Member of Parliament present here, living or moving in the countryside, sees this regularly on his own. The French can't do it anymore. That's why Éric Bothorel and I undertook a flash mission as early as July 2017 to publish an information report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u195	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u196	There was a need to revise the territorial coverage targets for operators. We wanted to make the voice of Parliament heard before the government made its choice to renew the 4G frequencies allocated to operators at the end of 2017. [[Mr François Cormier-Bouligeon and Mr Paul Molac applaud]] In memory, we had advocated making the sharing of antennas mandatory for all areas whose mobile coverage by operators was not satisfactory. Moreover, it has been several years since Corinne Erhel – whose memory I once again greeted – and I myself advocated this solution, to ensure the coverage of the least populated areas. I am sure that we will come to that in the future. With this in mind, I once again welcome the Government's decision to introduce the new mobile deal, not to bail out State funds, but to impose new cover obligations on operators. Bravo! The decision must not have been easy to obtain. I hope that the work that we, parliamentarians on all benches, are doing with insistence, has finally served the Government, in particular to help you, Minister, to obtain the right inter-ministerial arbitration. So listen to us again this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u198	The new deal is good and, as Éric Bothorel and I have seen in the information report that we have just submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it gives results, at least for two of its three objectives, namely the 4G switch from existing 3G antennas and the real increase in the coverage of the rail and road axes. On the other hand, there is a need to improve the process of targeted coverage because the results are not on track. That is the purpose of this bill, and I once again welcome the approach that inspires it. However, we question the following point: will the new deal be able to complete the mobile coverage of France or not? Let us take an example that the rapporteur knows well: that of our department. In Eure-et-Loir, only nine sites have been identified under the new deal, to which six more are expected to be added in 2020, representing a total of fifteen sites. However, it is estimated that 80 would be needed to complete the coverage of the entire department. At the pace of recent years, some 40 additional sites should be identified under the new mobile deal. That's to say, there's still a few holes left. Objectively, it is not this essential problem that this bill responds to. We suffer cruelly from a lack of visibility regarding the operators' own cover intentions, due to the secrecy that applies to this company information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u200	However, we cannot remain in this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u201	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u202	We cannot wait until the end of the deployment of the new deal – the last identification cycle to take place in 2026, with a view to commissioning in 2028 – to see the lack of mobile coverage in certain areas. We must provide quality coverage to our citizens everywhere; It's about fairness between the people. The use in rural areas is the same as in the city. We cannot be regarded as second-class citizens. In essence, the only question is this: will the new deal complete the coverage of French territory? This bill seems interesting to me because it aims to involve communities more in the choice of locations and in the financing of high points. It has little normative value since it does not create any new obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u203	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u204	Combined with other measures, such as the provision of serviced land with an electrical connection to operators, it can nevertheless contribute to the acceleration of the new deal. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] In conclusion, the IDU, Act and Independent Group, very committed to the goal of digital coverage of the territory, considers it appropriate to include the role of communities in the law, and will support the bill in its vast majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u205	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u206	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u207	If Orange, Bouygues Telecom and SFR say that 99% of the population are able to receive 4G, and 95% according to Free Mobile, this does not mean that the entire territory is covered but, more precisely, that the vast majority of French people have access to this famous 4G. In terms of "surfacic" coverage, i.e. coverage in the national territory, the figures are no longer quite the same: in fact, they fall to 88% for the 4G of Orange, 84% for Bouygues, 83% for SFR and finally 77% for Free. In 2019, France still had 541 municipalities classified as white areas, or 2% of the territory covered by no network. In most cases, the municipalities concerned are on rugged, mountainous or forested land, and their inhabitants experience a real sense of downgrading. In addition, these data are often biased since operators, when issuing a signal, even if very weak, classify the municipalities concerned as grey areas; I might as well say that, in order to phone, you have to hang on... Among the areas most affected by white areas are the Great East, Occitanie, New Aquitaine and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. In 2019, for example, Occitanie still had 89 white areas identified, while a deployment plan had already been launched there for 16 years. Aveyron, Lozère and Ariège are the three most affected departments. In the Hérault, my department, four communes are part of these white areas. We can measure this: there is still work to be done so that all French people, especially those living in rural areas, can benefit from good telephone coverage. The white areas are too often synonymous with double punishment for already fragile territories. How to attract a dynamic population, families, a doctor, a teacher, shops in areas where 4G does not pass? How, under these conditions, do we expect to retain young people there? In digital times, living in a white area is often a nightmare. I am therefore pleased that it is proposed that the implementation of the new network antennas should not depend solely on the telephone operators, who obviously prefer the most profitable areas, but that the choice of the location of these antennas should be made in consultation with the elected representatives. For the sake of efficiency, however, I will propose an amendment aimed at involving local people in this consultation. I will take a very concrete example in my constituency in Villeneuve-lès-Béziers: given the configuration of the village, a telephone operator has considered, in connection with the town hall, installing a network antenna near a school. This naturally led to outcry among the parents of pupils and subsequent demonstrations. Since then, the situation has changed and another location has been found, but all this energy expenditure and all this lost time could have been avoided if a consultation had taken place between the operators and the local elected representatives, but also, I insist, with the local population concerned. My amendment is all the more important since the new deal decided by the Government to end the white zones should result in the installation of 10,000 to 12,000 pylons: both to do so in consultation with the people, especially since it is still an investment of 3 billion euros for the operators. I shall therefore vote in favour of the bill and hope, I repeat, that the populations concerned will be involved in the consultations between operators and elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u208	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u209	First of all, let me thank the speakers of all groups, especially those who support the bill. Sylvia Pinel, whose level of expertise has been noted, recalled the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities and the desire of elected officials to influence things. That is what this text is about, quite simply. Jean-Paul Dufrègne, who, as a good Auvergnat, knows his rural territory well, gave a testimony on the night calvings in which I found myself, having helped a start-up that seeks to better accompany veterinarians and farmers. As for Ian Boucard, from the Republican Group, he understood that, although the bill was not intended to solve all the problems, it would nevertheless speed things up. I welcome the comments you made, Minister, because you did not give in to the explanations that were given to you suggesting that I wanted to break the new deal. Not at all! Those who, in various and varied rooms, told you this did not tell the truth; It's not our will. In this regard, Laure de La Raudière, who has long been interested in digital issues, has produced an excellent report on the subject, and I welcome his intervention. Together with others, I have been leading a crusade for digital technology, as I have been leading a crusade against medical desertification since 2007. Now, where are we twelve years later on this other file? We've retreated. As far as digital technology is concerned, it will be argued that progress has been made, but as far as the new mobile deal is concerned, a week ago I attended a meeting of project teams in the prefecture, where Guillaume Kasbarian was impatient as things did not go fast enough, and for reason: when asked, operators always have good reasons not to tell the truth. Mr Ruffin, who left, and Mr Saulignac, in good Ardéchois, felt at the moment that there was no reason to give gifts to operators. I don't want to give them gifts, but to force them more. However, given the current diagnosis and the number of mobile antennas to deploy accordingly, the answer will not be up to date! Forgive me for coming back to my territory for a moment: thirty antennas are planned there while it would take eighty to cover it! In other words, even after the new deal, even if the deployment program was respected – which I find hard to believe since the minister indicated that 37 sites out of 1140 had been equipped in 18 months, or 3% of the total – the account will not be there! Even if the power panel is respected, it will still lack at least 50-60% of the necessary equipment. My municipality, where 6000 inhabitants live, does not have mobile telephony: nothing. I'll invite you at home to see it with your own iPhone, minister. Second point on which we need your answer and your help: the current diagnoses, which are in the hands of ARCEP and transmitted to the project teams in the departments are false, I weigh my words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u210	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u211	On 25 April 2020, you will have on your desk the very precise cartography, house by house, needs in Eure-et-Loir, for a cost of only 100,000 euros. You may not have an opposable document such as this. Removing it would deprive you, as a minister with considerable public spending – and that is happy – of a decision-making tool allowing you to put operators in front of their responsibilities. Indeed, it is the same operators who refuse that the communities co-finance the towers and at the same time request to be connected to the electricity grid! Because we're talking a lot about ecological transition, they're doing the same thing about photovoltaics! I am defending, in my territory, a project of photovoltaic farm of more than 100 hectares, and we are told that we must find 5 million euros to reach the source post: can the community help, are we asked? In other words, we need to go faster and stronger. Since the 3D bill – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – will soon be submitted to us, the Libertés et territoires group reminds us that the concept of differentiation has a meaning: to allow elected representatives, under the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, the ability to intervene if they so wish. Our friends of MODEM, too, know the rural territories well, but be careful: when at the end of the fair we will count the money, you will see that the account will not be there! Now, with this bill, we are helping you! We want to involve local elected representatives in the decision to set up mobile antennas so that they can one day claim that they did not know because they were not involved in the process. Finally, Mrs Ménard, we naturally encourage cooperation; I myself have participated extensively in the consultation aimed at implanting, not without evil, three antennas, in order to convince the people who want the telephone, but not in front of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] In short, we propose a general act of accountability. Take this opportunity to the leap, Minister. I thank you for your invitation to make sure, as soon as possible, to compel operators. I stress the word "coerce" and thank many colleagues for using it because there are large sums of public money at the key and above all a requirement to bridge the digital divide in France. The path is tortuous but it is necessary to accelerate; If not, believe me, the awakening will be painful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u212	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u213	[[The rapporteur and Mrs Laure de La Raudière applaud]] I do not consider in any way, Mr. President Vigier, that your bill is intended in any way to break the new deal. All those who claimed it, including among the operators, prove that we are right to talk about it this morning. In any case, things are quite simple: those that we shook two years ago and now warn against a new amendment to the law only motivate me to go even further. I am very clear on this point. On the other hand, many questioned the State's awareness of the issue. It seems to me, however, that it is no longer to be demonstrated. We moved the lines two and a half years ago, and share a goal defended on all benches of the Assembly, including by President Vigier, Éric Bothorel and Laure de La Raudière, but also by your colleagues in the Republican and Socialist and related groups. The consciousness of the state does exist, like that of all parliamentarians. It is important to have a deep discourse of truth. I hear the recurring criticisms of not going fast enough. However, when I was appointed minister, two and a half years ago, there were officially 600 white areas in France. That's what we were going to do; It was not new since it had been defined by previous governments. Why 600 white areas? In a village, more than 500 metres from the bell tower, you were forced to climb up the hill and raise your right arm to have one bar out of four; What a story! The quasi-schizophrenia of the minister that I am pushed me to change the situation and to redefine the white areas, as explained very well Laure de La Raudière and Éric Bothorel: this system of white areas completely farfetched had to be stopped. As with everything, when there is grey, there is a wolf; There are either white areas, or there are areas that are not, but let's stop with this notion of grey areas. We have transformed the grey areas into white areas; This is why, in the new deal, we have moved from 600 sites to more than 12,000 sites, thanks to the new towers. The second element is the reference. Some, first of all Mr Ruffin – whom I thank for coming back to the Chamber, which gives me the opportunity to reply to him – say that the objectives are not being met and that the operators must be bleeded. Let's stop with this vocabulary; The country must be calmed down, it will do everyone good. I say it very peacefully, since I was in charge of the case, in 2017, 10 million households – not 1 million, not 2 million, but 10 million – have been made connected to digital. Fifty cities, villages or areas a week – I say well a week – have seen the old technologies leave room for news since January 2018: not one or two, but fifty a week! There's still a lot to do and I won't let go. It is also important to remember the reference, because it is too easy to make great effects of stage by repeating: "It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough. That's what we're doing and that's why we've been fighting with you for two and a half years now. Since the new deal, I have notified operators of more than 1160 sites to be covered within two years, and every year 700 to 900 new sites will be affected. The 1160 sites under construction are certainly not going to be quickly enough, but it is necessary to compare to the repository that I have recovered: 600 white areas throughout the country! When the new deal was signed, I didn't do the same as before. We must see how it was done: we agreed with the operators and we said, hand over heart: my good ladies, my good gentlemen, you are asked to cover. The State had itself organised a system that made operators have no interest in building. That's why we had to change paradigms and make the new deal. Secondly, there was no means of control. Thirdly, the operators were not told that the tower had to walk, they were only asked to build a tower. Fourth, operators were asked to build a tower, but it was the community that paid for it. As a result, 100 white areas were covered out of the 600 official areas, meaning nothing at all. When I signed the new deal, I asked that everything be done under the auspices of ARCEP, with very strong sanctions. I say this very firmly to all operators, who know my position: if the targets on the 485 sites in the area concerned by June 2020 are not achieved, I would be extremely vigilant to ensure that the sanctions are applied in line with the new deal. I said this very clearly to the operators: I was firm during the negotiations, and I will be as firm as I am in the realization. That's why we've successfully deployed 4G on digital. We will be very firm about the white areas, and it is a good thing that ARCEP has already given notice. If the results are not there on 30 June 2020, it will have to apply sanctions since it is independent. You see how transparent I am about the numbers I'm giving you. I will be very firm: sanctions must be applied as provided for in the new deal, no more or less. I say this very clearly to all operators. How to speed up? The method is changing enormously: in the new deal, I wanted the communities to choose the locations with the project teams. I salute the project teams and the parliamentarians who attend them because they have understood the importance, like President Vigier. Previously, the operators were working in their area; Now, the ninety-two project teams cover the territory. I hear the remark that the mayors are not sufficiently involved. Can the law solve this problem? I think we need to move faster: I propose that my teams forward to the national representation, before the end of February, an update on the consultation of the mayors concerned by the 485 sites. If mayors have not been consulted, at least we will know and the corresponding project teams will consult them. I ask my colleagues to inform all the parliamentarians concerned by the project teams, before the end of the month, whether or not the mayors were consulted by the operators. If this is not the case, this will have to be done, particularly in the context of the meeting that I undertook to hold before the end of February. [[Smile]] I have a difference of opinion on funding, which explains my unfavorable opinion on the bill. However, I do not need to demonstrate that I am fully moving in the same direction. Thank you for helping me help you help the French by improving the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u214	It's Raymond Devos!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u215	You understand me, Mr. Pupponi: we're all in the same boat! It bothers me to come back to a point foreseen by the new deal: the financing goes to the operators and not to the communities. I thank Mr Saulignac, who insisted on this point. The new deal was developed in such a way that the communities were no longer responsible for the financing of the towers, as had been the case so far, as it had not worked. We have already paid to see: it works less well when it is the community that finances than when the operators engage, under the control of ARCEP. That is why I am against the PPL, while I share in every respect its purpose. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To go even further, I make the following commitments: a very firm approach to sanctions; transparency in the accompaniment of mayors; the holding of a meeting, before the end of February, of the operators and parliamentarians concerned and devoted to the specific dossiers. You have to put the pressure in the tube, and I'll put it to the end, without demagogy. I will never send responsibility to operators alone, contrary to what has been done for 20 years. This would be crazy! The State was the first responsible, Mrs Laure de La Raudière said it very well. I changed his approach, but I'll never hide behind my little finger. I want to act pragmatically by continuing to put pressure in the tube. The gendarme, called ARCEP, will have to crack down if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u216	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u217	On Article 1, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u218	I support the bill and go back to what the minister said about the new deal, its implementation and the role of constable. This text echoes the risk of a missed appointment, while the new deal could be a good thing, as Philippe Vigier himself explained. This risk results from the numerous holes in the snowshoe, due to the lack of territorial proximity and assessment of territorial equity. For example, the criterion of 5000 vehicles per day on average excludes de facto 80% of Corsica's secondary network. We cannot be satisfied with this, knowing that the infrastructure quota would be limited. This example of incompatibility with a territorial reality can be replicated in other territories. We are at the heart of the subject: a comprehensive macroeconomic agreement that moves with the lack of bottom-up consideration of territorial realities. This is why the actors on the ground – of which Philippe Vigier is a part – are asking for more assurance on territorial governance and co-financing. On the ground, the topographical difficulties have an effect on the economic model of the system: we are asked to finance 16 kilometres of electrical connection at very busy mountain sites, due in particular to the GR20, which is not foreseen in the economic model of the new deal. What guarantees do we have that the gendarmerie will call operators to order for these sites that present important security issues? My colleague mentioned earlier the fires that are raging in Bavella: we have been fighting for two years to have a tower on this site, which still does not exist. This harms firefighters' work, while 4000 hectares burn. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] These high-profile issues amply justify our having this legislative debate on governance, the common identification of white and grey areas, and the optimisation of the financing of achievements. Without this debate, the meeting will be missed. Like roads in the 19th century, mountain territories cannot afford the luxury of missing out on history in terms of telephony and digital technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u219	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u220	I thank our colleague Philippe Vigier for addressing the important issue of mobile broadband coverage, which is central in rural areas such as the Eure-et-Loir. Mrs de La Raudière spoke of her commune: I could testify to the situation of Saint-Martin-de-Nigelles, where we are very ill-captured. I thank the Minister for recalling that the new deal, a trust agreement between the operators, the Government and ARCEP, enables the coverage needs to be met in order to absorb the white areas on an unprecedented scale. I also thank him for his daily voluntarism in order to put pressure on all actors to speed things up. There are malfunctions and sometimes it doesn't go fast enough. The impatience of elected officials and citizens is great, so that some elected officials sometimes come to announce their will to take the hand to go faster. In order to do this, the solution does not necessarily consist of giving back to the pot, pouring public money from local authorities to the operators. We are not going to use the French tax to abound even more these, already engaged in a national contract, the new deal. To move faster, the minister referred to the right solution: improving the project mode. It is impossible that twenty-four months are needed to build an antenna, while six months are enough in other countries. There is a need to simplify the procedure and remove administrative and operational bottlenecks. Mr Vigier, Madame de La Raudière, we saw these blockages last week in Chartres, they were numerous: problems of connection to ERDF, lack of reactivity of operators or even reluctance of some residents. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the minister's proposal to speed up, in my view, the most operational, quickest and most proactive and effective solution, in my view, than the adoption of a new law. Therefore, we will vote against section 1 and the proposed legislation. We have a satisfactory solution to achieve the objectives quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u221	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u222	Everyone on these benches shares the objective of the bill. The problem, however, is that communities are again being asked to participate in the funding. That's not the right solution. To use your formula: "We've already paid to see: it works less well." I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to one point. In our country, in terms of telephony and digital technology, some institutions are fragile: retirement homes. One cannot accept that they are deprived of the Internet or telephone for eight days. This happens in our electoral districts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u223	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u224	As soon as yesterday, I was alerted to such a case in an establishment in my constituency. It is no longer possible to receive prescriptions, and the e-mail links with the area hospital are cut off. Tomorrow, it will be exactly eight days since there is no more digital coverage in this institution; It is a double penalty, since it is also in a white area for mobile telephony. I ask you, minister, to consider a solution for retirement homes, which are not institutions like any other and whose situation is different from that of individuals. They welcome sick people and staff who need to communicate and cannot remain cut off from the outside world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u225	I totally agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u226	Could you press for emergency services to be set up in these institutions, whether public or private? I could have also talked about fire stations, faced with the same problem. Retirement homes must benefit from an emergency system, which currently does not exist. You have means of pressure with the operators; All you have to do is start the machine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u227	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u228	I repeat what I said in the general discussion: I am very committed to the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of consultation, when it comes to deciding, with the operators, on the location of future antennas. Efficiency would be enhanced by involving them in this process. But I am also very committed to involving people in the consultation process. I gave the example of Villeneuve-lès-Béziers in the general discussion. An operator wanted to set up an antenna near a school in this town. The parents of students, concerned, rightly, protested. Finally, a lot of time was lost: it took long months for the choice of another location to be stopped. Had the population of the commune been involved immediately in the decision-making process, much time would have been gained. It didn't happen that way; We preferred to do it opaquely. The local population was sensitive and saw in it the evidence, very logically, that there were things to hide. However, this was not the case: only the geography of the village made it difficult to choose a wise location, allowing the efficient functioning of the local telephone network. In any case, long months have been lost. If it were added in the marble of the law that the local population must be associated with the consultations, we would save time, therefore efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u229	Absolutely not! What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u230	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u231	I hear Mrs Ménard's comments and I repeat what I have already said in the general discussion: how can I imagine that an antenna, which is more than thirty-five or forty metres long, will be installed without the public being consulted? In addition, I would remind you that building permits must be backed up by a public inquiry. His amendment, if adopted, would lead to a further slowing down of things, when they must be speeded up. In any case, there will not be any settlement without citizen consultation. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u232	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u233	I agree with President Vigier. Mrs Ménard, we had this debate with many of you during the examination of the digital part of the ELAN law. We then discussed strong measures to speed up the deployment of the towers: remember our debates on the appropriateness of a assent of the architects of the buildings of France before their construction – but I will not reopen them, they had already occupied us a lot... We had also discussed the preliminary information files with the mayor – DIM – some of them wondering if they should not be deleted. Remember my position, shared at the time by President Vigier: it is absolutely necessary to maintain them. Even if one wants to speed up the deployment of the towers, their construction is only possible if the population is favourable; She should not consider it to be to her detriment. We have therefore maintained the IMGs. In addition, we decided not to amend the Abeille Act of 9 February 2015 – relating to sobriety, transparency, information and consultation on exposure to electromagnetic waves – which regulates telecommunications, for public health reasons. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u234	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u235	I will go along with the Minister's remarks, for having participated, like many of us, in many debates on the ELAN law. We have chosen to retain the IMGs so that a public debate can take place, while we have simplified other administrative procedures. We return, with the remark of Mrs Ménard, to a shared observation: mayors and project teams need accompaniment, as indicated by the AMF – the Association of Mayors of France and presidents of intercommunality. The Commission also considers that it is not at all desirable for mayors to participate in the financing; It's not possible for them. It therefore disagrees with the proposed method of financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u236	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u237	The debate was repeated during the review of Bill ELAN: How can we ensure that communities are informed and are able to give their views? It must also be made clear that technically, it is better to be at the foot of an antenna than far from it, since the waves are less strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u238	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u239	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u240	But finally, this is another debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I will end with a touch of humor: I had considered tabling an amendment to force senior officials in charge of the white areas and the leaders of private operators to live in those areas. Let them try to manage contacts with their company or ministry from these places, without a phone! The obligation would have lasted only for 15 days. It wasn't too bad and it would have allowed them to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u241	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u242	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u243	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u244	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 24 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u245	As all the articles were rejected, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u246	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u247	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u248	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Jeanine Dubié and others on various measures of social justice (No 2550, 2629).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u249	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u250	I am Yannick Favennec Becot, Member of Parliament for Mayenne, and I am rapporteur, on behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, for this bill. If I start my speech with this brief and unusual presentation, it is because I heard what the associations representing people with disabilities explained, the day before yesterday, at the Elysée, at the National Conference on Disability: Some people, because of their disability, being unable to see me or read a caption, it is important for them that I introduce myself orally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u251	If there is one lesson that we can draw from the social manifestations that have followed in recent months, it is that of the deep aspiration of our fellow citizens for more social justice. We have all heard, in our constituencies, on our territories – and I was able to measure it myself in my department, Mayenne – the growing difficulties that the most fragile of us are going through. These social mobilizations have strongly reminded us that measures for the most vulnerable must, for some, be strengthened, for others, become reality. We have a responsibility to stop giving up the urgent and concrete measures that our most fragile fellow citizens are waiting for. That is the ambition of the bill that I am presenting to you now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u252	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u253	This text defended by the Freedom and Territory Group aims in particular at improving the situation of elderly persons who are dependent or disabled. In an aging society, the issue of caring for our elders and dependents is obviously essential. However, the various public aids do not always allow these people to age calmly and with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u254	It's important to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u255	This is the case for older persons who, because of their state of health, are forced to leave their homes to be accommodated in residential institutions for dependent elderly persons. Unfortunately, too often, this change adds financial difficulties to their health problems. In fact, despite the various public aids, the living expenses remaining at the expense of the dependent elderly remain particularly high: the remaining average charge amounts to almost 1,800 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u256	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u257	It is therefore superior to current resources for more than one in two residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u258	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u259	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] This situation is of particular concern to all those who cannot count on the financial assistance of their loved ones. It is all the more unacceptable in view of the fact that taking over the loss of autonomy must be primarily a matter of national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u261	For this reason, section 1 of the proposed law transforms into a tax credit the tax reduction for the living expenses of persons who are hosted into a specialized institution or service. This measure of social justice was defended by our colleague Christine Pires Beaune, in her capacity as Special Rapporteur of the Finance Bill for 2020. The bill also aims to improve the situation of persons with disabilities. The National Conference on Disability held the day before yesterday reminded us of the long way to go. Our weaknesses, our shortcomings, our hesitations hinder the necessary consideration of persons with disabilities. We therefore have a duty to act, and to act quickly, because people with disabilities are more vulnerable to poverty than people with disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] René Lenoir, Secretary of State to the Minister of Health Simone Veil, under the chairmanship of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, when he defended the introduction of the allowance for adults with disabilities in 1974, said: "The dignity of every man depends on his degree of autonomy, and autonomy requires sufficient resources. However, one quarter of the beneficiaries of the adult disability benefit live below the poverty line. In this context, the methods of calculating this allowance are, rightly, particularly criticized. If the beneficiary is a couple, the spouse's income is taken into account in calculating and capping the allowance for adults with disabilities. This situation is detrimental in two ways. First of all, it creates financial inequality between beneficiaries according to their personal situation, an inequality which has been shown to prevail in the context of successive increases in the allowance for adults with disabilities, in November 2018 and in November 2019. In addition to the increases in the allowance, the full rate of which has increased to 900 euros, the increase in the resources ceiling for couples' beneficiaries has been lowered, depriving some 100,000 beneficiaries of the benefits of the reform. Secondly, this method of calculating and recovering the AAH is problematic in that it contravenes the autonomy of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u262	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u263	For example, several associations point to the alarming situation of some women with disabilities who are victims of domestic violence and who, without the AAH, are dependent on their spouse's income. While Parliament has recently adopted measures to combat domestic violence, we cannot forget people with disabilities in our field of action. Articles 2 and 3 thus remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities and in the ceiling. It is an expected measure, with financial autonomy and dignity. It also responds to a historic demand from the associations defending the rights of disabled people, already relayed last year in this Chamber by our colleague Marie-George Buffet. The bill also seeks to improve access to disability compensation, 15 years after the adoption of the major disability law of 11 February 2005. This law, rightly seen as a great step forward for people with disabilities, has unfortunately not kept all its promises. This is the case for the issue of age barriers of 60 and 75. The 75-year-old age barrier is expected to disappear in the coming months, thanks to the adoption of the bill of Senate origin, whose rapporteur in the National Assembly is our colleague Nathalie Elimas, who was adopted in public session on January 15. While we can only welcome the adoption of this provision, it is in fact only a first step. Indeed, the maintenance of the 60-year-old age barrier is particularly unfair. If the disability occurs beyond the age of 60, only the personalized autonomy allowance can be claimed. This situation results in different treatment of people with identical levels of disability and compensation needs. By 2005, the legislator had provided that the distinction between persons with disabilities on the basis of age criteria would disappear within five years. Unfortunately, five years later, nothing was done. The Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing returned to the issue by providing for a report by the Government to Parliament on the impact of the 60-year and 75-year thresholds for the award of disability compensation benefits. The report was to be submitted within six months; We're still waiting for him. However, the removal of the age barrier is also the subject of a unanimous request from the associations. It is also a recommendation of the specialists who have studied the field of disability. Finally, Article 4 of the proposed law addresses the problem. As you can see, the proposed measures help to improve the situation of people who are dependent or disabled, without waiting for a possible bill, announced, like others, but without a real timetable. These common-sense measures, derived from the expectations of all those living with disabilities on a daily basis, do not require the implementation of a new consultation or the publication of a new report. Fifteen years after the 2005 major disability law, but also a few months after the consultation on age and autonomy, and the submission of Dominique Libault's report, it is finally time to translate into law the recommendations of the unanimous associations. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our colleague Stéphane Peu, who, the day before yesterday, during the question-and-answer session in the Government, asked you, Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, whether this time the majority would accept the social justice measures contained in our bill. Tuesday, you did not answer our colleague's question; Today we offer you a second chance to meet the expectations of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] The adoption of the bill, which provides concrete answers to long-standing, legitimate and neglected expectations, will demonstrate humanity, the support and the protection that our society owes to vulnerable people. Together, we are laying the foundation for a more ambitious reform for the dependent elderly and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u264	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u265	Thank you, rapporteur, for presenting you for all people with disabilities. Let me do it myself: Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, responsible for people with disabilities. Your bill includes various measures to improve social justice for the benefit of people who are losing their autonomy, the elderly and the disabled. Yes, we need to move forward for better support for people with disabilities and our seniors. This is a priority; It is my priority and it is also that of my colleague Agnès Buzyn. Yesterday, the Fifth National Disability Conference was held. It was the occasion of a strong and committed speech by the President of the Republic, accompanied by concrete and financed measures: to establish the principle of the unconditionality of the accompaniment while individuals and families are alone, without anyone to help in the search for solutions; to recognize persons with disabilities in their full dignity and to ensure that no one abandons the plan to be a parent because of the disability; to take a step in the accessibility of our society, source of over-handicap. It was also an opportunity for unprecedented government mobilization, embodying the priority we give to disability in every field of our policy. Finally, the Conference was an opportunity to call for national mobilization, because – as we know and I have been able to say before this Assembly – disability is everyone's business. These are no words: disability is at the heart of the Republican pact that unites us, and it engages society in its entirety. Of course, this National Conference was informed by the very important work carried out with the people themselves, the associations, the departments, the administrations, the companies, the media leaders and, of course, the parliamentarians. We have signed an agreement of reciprocal commitments with the Assembly of the French Departments – and here I pay tribute to Dominique Bussereau, its president – the associations representing the people and the operators of the medico-social. Our collective goal is clear, and I thank the associations, the force of transformation of our society: to give the power to act to people, and to speed up and adapt our society by providing answers for a concrete improvement in their daily lives. Beyond legal frameworks, we must ensure that progress is made in a qualitative and appropriate manner throughout the territories, in line with the choices of the people themselves. In this mobilization, the work of parliamentarians is, I said, essential. The proposal for a law on disability compensation, which was unanimously adopted on these benches, was discussed in the same Chamber recently. This legislation will soon have the force of law and will allow concrete progress in the area of disability compensation. In particular, it is nourished by the work of MP Philippe Berta, and it is making essential improvements, with the removal of the age-barrier at age 75 or the integration of disability compensation benefits into the body of life rights on which the Government has committed itself. Mrs Jeanine Dubie, I know your personal commitment and your expertise in accompaniment to those who need it most. Your bill reminds us that we still have challenges to face in order to avoid disruptions and to accompany the ageing of society. However, I am in favour of such discussions also taking place within the broader framework of the debates to which your proposals echo, in conjunction with the departments, lead the policies of solidarity in the territories. Let me go back to the allowance for adults with disabilities, which is the subject of sections 2 and 3 of your bill. You know the commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government to the purchasing power of persons with disabilities. The amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities was EUR 819 at the beginning of the quinquennium; it has been the subject of two exceptional revaluations and has been increased to 900 euros since 1 November 2019. In concrete terms, the investment amounts to EUR 2 billion on the quinquennium. This may not be enough, but disability is one of the areas where the Government will have invested the most during the legislature. In the 2017-2020 financial years alone, we have increased the average for disability by 3 billion. Let us repeat this because it is important: 1.1 million people receive an additional 80 euros per month, an 11 per cent gain in social justice for people with disabilities. No less than 90% of the beneficiaries have benefited from a full revalorisation at full rate. Again, the Adult Disability Allowance is an almost individualized benefit. A specific ceiling and a specific reduction of 20% on the spouse's income shall apply. Let us give it to our fellow citizens: national solidarity is only very partially articulated with family solidarity, which nevertheless makes it possible to direct public funding towards those who need it most; However, 60% of couples benefited at a full rate from the increase. In addition, in certain situations, taking into account the spouse's income, taking into account the conditions for quasi-individualisation of the AAH, may be favourable to the beneficiary. Thus, an AAH beneficiary who works as a couple with a spouse who does not work can accumulate his or her allowance at full rate with, for example, a SMIC: since November 2019 he or she can, in this particular case, receive 900 euros in addition to his or her working income at the SMIC. The Government has also strongly supported access to the rights of persons with respect for their dignity. Since 1 January 2019, an allowance for adults with disabilities for life is granted when the disability is not reversible. I would like to recall this major step forward, far from being annoyed, marks the end of a humiliating administrative journey, a source of breach of rights. Life rights must be applied everywhere, all over the country, it is a matter of fairness. In addition, the departments have made a firm commitment to meet the delivery deadlines, as it is not possible for cases to be processed within two months in some departments and ten months elsewhere. Again, this is a testament to our commitment to strengthening social justice, equal treatment and the avoidance of breaches of rights, which, as we know, can cause very difficult situations for our fellow citizens. The State will provide the necessary funding to support the departmental homes of persons with disabilities in the implementation of this requirement. The President of the Republic has set us a course, and I will continue my commitment on the ground, with the conviction and the resolution that I have shown since the beginning of my duties, as close as possible to the people, supported by the Assembly of the French Departments, whose involvement is unwavering thanks, in particular, to the action of the Chairman of his Committee on Solidarity and Social Affairs, Frédéric Bierry, whose commitment I welcome. The remarks made by the President of the Republic yesterday on the allowance for adults with disabilities reflect the importance we attach to it. I would add that in the area of purchasing power, other measures help to improve it, in particular the complementary health care that will allow better access to care. With regard to disability compensation, new rights were announced yesterday. This government will be the first to change disability compensation benefits to allow persons with disabilities to be respected and accompanied in their choices and rights. Persons with disabilities have the right to be parents like others. Human aid will therefore be taken into account in the provision of compensation for disability. The State is investing €184 million in this. Because they are entitled to a dignified life, we must put an end to this ubiquitous situation, which means that people who need help to eat must wait for someone to come and get rid of the table and do the dishes. There are no small advances: the integration of meal preparation and dishes into the human aid component of disability compensation is part of what may seem little but is essential to restore the right to live just like the others. They also have the right to better compensation for their disability. Better account should be taken of those whose disorders are poorly assessed, poorly known and therefore poorly compensated, in particular those with psychological, cognitive and neurodevelopmental disorders. That is why I entrusted Professor Denis Leguay, President of Santé mentale France, with the task of conducting this work designed to better adapt the disability compensation benefit to their specific needs. In section 4 of your bill, you raise a fundamental issue: the boundary between allowances intended to compensate for the loss of autonomy due to disability, on the one hand, and age, on the other. I supported the removal of the 75-year-old age barrier in Mr. Alain Milon's PLP, a barrier beyond which a person whose disability occurred before age 60 could no longer claim his or her rights at the PCH, even though his or her situation may have been upset, for example as a result of his or her spouse's death. This advance will secure the rights of 10,000 people. Raising the age limit to benefit from the disability compensation benefit is a legitimate issue, but we need to take the time to study objectively the issues related to raising this threshold and the consequences for the people concerned. Are there any losers as a result of the differences in the scope of the services referred to by the rapporteur? How much? What would be the effects? I pledge that a report on this matter will be available on 30 June. The President of the Republic yesterday recalled the importance of addressing the challenges attached to the support of ageing people with disabilities, collective progress and the challenge for the next few years. This debate is certainly necessary, but it seems to me better to organize it within the framework of the bill on old age and autonomy. The timetable will allow us, by then, to carry out the analysis work on the conditions for raising this threshold. The reform of old age and autonomy will be the subject of a specific bill presented in the summer of 2020, in accordance with the Prime Minister's commitment. Thanks to a profound transformation in the supply of support for seniors, the law must enable us to meet the great aspirations expressed by our fellow citizens during the consultation on older age and autonomy: to stay at home as long as possible thanks to strengthened home services; be able to choose an intermediate place of life between the home and the establishment, through the deployment of inclusive housing solutions; to be accommodated in EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – renovated, where more professionals work; be able to bear the cost of accommodation in an establishment; be accompanied by well-trained professionals, in sufficient numbers and in their profession. The reform must respond to the urgency of the expectations of seniors and their caregivers while preparing the system for the next demographic shock. With regard to the situation of institutions hosting dependent seniors, which you raise in your article 1, we share the crucial objective of helping residents cope with the rest of the EHPAD. The draft law on old age and autonomy will contain measures to address the remaining problem in EHPAD. Let us recall the words of Agnes Buzyn during his wishes to the press for 2020, regarding his ambitions for the bill relating to the old age and autonomy: "Finally, we want to reduce the weight of the rest to be borne by the most modest and I recall that the fear of weighing on their children or grandchildren is very regularly mentioned by the French when they are questioned about their future in the old age. » The decline in the EHPAD bill through the transformation of the tax reduction into a tax credit is one of the avenues analysed by the Government and on which the majority will work. However, it is imperative that this issue be addressed within the overall framework of the draft law on old age and autonomy. This is essential because some aspects still need to be deepened: how can we guarantee total simplicity for the citizens concerned? Do we have to put in place a contemporary tax credit, without any time lag? How can this tax credit be linked with existing aid? who would be the losers of the introduction of a tax credit with a reduced ceiling? Because the subject cannot be disconnected from the more general issue of EHPAD tariffs and the system of social assistance empowerment, dealing with the rest of the burden is to act both on supply, thus on EHPAD tariffs, and on demand. The subject cannot be disconnected from the major arbitrations on governance of the future risk of age-related loss of autonomy. Finally, the President of the Republic said yesterday that the consequences of disability on the pension rights of persons themselves and their caregivers would indeed be taken into account in the universal pension system. He recalled that MEPs had proposed two changes: increasing the rights of parents with disabled children; facilitating the transition from employment to retirement for persons with disabilities through a progressive retirement scheme. Therefore, with regard to your Article 5, in line with your overall vision of your wishes, it seems more appropriate to refer your wish to improve the inclusion of probationary periods in the pension entitlements under sections 47 and 48 of the pension bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u266	In the general debate, Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u267	For its first agenda reserved, the parliamentary group, Liberties and Territories, has the will to translate into action the ambition and the objective that unites us: to combat the fractures that cripple our country and threaten its cohesion. The past year has been particularly marked by intense social mobilizations – the movement of yellow vests or demonstrations against pension reform – that have been crystallising growing concerns within our society for several years. Throughout the national territory, the persistence or even widening of social inequalities is fuelling a growing sense of injustice and thus threatening our social cohesion. That is why we must make our priority in the fight against the difficulties faced by the most vulnerable populations and the most affected by insecurity and isolation. This bill, defended by our rapporteur Yannick Favennec Becot, demonstrates our modest but determined ambition to improve the lives of the most vulnerable in order to strengthen their autonomy. This text does not purport to address the broader challenge of the future of our social model in the face of the challenge of population ageing and dependency. That is why we do not consider it appropriate to refer to the bill on old age and autonomy, as you have done, Madam Secretary of State. The subject of dependency and autonomy concerns not only the old age but all the ages of life. This text simply invites us to ask the question of the relevance of existing mechanisms and, if possible, to act quickly to correct and enrich them, with a view to social and fiscal justice. It seeks to improve self-reliance in order to provide more dignified living conditions for these particularly vulnerable people. The difficulties associated with the deterioration of people's health are compounded by financial constraints, which constitute obstacles to their ability to cope. It is this injustice that we want to tackle. France is faced with a structural ageing of its population, which requires us to pay particular attention to the care of our seniors, especially since public policies do not adequately meet the needs. However, the latter continue to grow, as the latest report on this subject shows, which we have all read: Dominique Libault's report, which emerged from the consultation on age and autonomy. He tells us that from 2030 onwards, 40,000 more dependent people will have to be cared for each year. In addition to the need for structural funding, we must ensure that people have the financial capacity to access care. Article 1 of the draft law therefore provides for the improvement of the purchasing power of dependent elderly persons residing in EHPAD, in the interests of equality and social justice, in order to ensure that they enjoy the same rights as dependent elderly persons receiving services at home. While we believe that home care should be encouraged, the rest of the dependants are far too important, to the detriment of the most vulnerable and dependent. According to a survey by the DREES – the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – it reaches € 1850 per month and above all, it exceeds the current resources of the elderly in 75% of cases. Thus, at the end of 2018, 11% of residents said they had to mobilize their people to pay part of these costs. In comparison, at home, the Libault report indicates that the remainder is on average EUR 60 per month. Article 1 now proposes a first solution: to transform the current tax reduction for accommodation expenses into a tax credit, following the model of the scheme open to elderly people using home help. The tax credit allows the person to receive a refund from public finances, which can avoid the use of social assistance for housing, which involves family and property consequences, while strengthening the right to self-reliance of individuals. I would particularly like to welcome our colleague Christine Pires Beaune, who initiated this proposal during the debate on the last finance bill. I thank her for the support she has given us today and for the very hard work she has done. His report has shown us, thanks to data from the Directorate of Tax Law, that the tax reduction in force is anti-redistributive and poorly targeted. In particular, it does not benefit tax households belonging to the first three income deciles, i.e. households whose RFR – the reference tax income – is less than EUR 13148. The transformation of the tax reduction into a tax credit would pay off this pitfall and reduce the rest of the dependants of people living in EHPAD, to the benefit of about 370,000 tax homes. In order to ensure the budgetary neutrality of this measure, we propose that the right to the employment tax credit for home help be granted only to households with a reference tax income of less than EUR 42000. The text also seeks to better meet the expectations of persons with disabilities. On Tuesday, 11 February, the anniversary of the 15th anniversary of the 2005 Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities, the latter called for a demonstration in front of the CDMH – departmental houses for persons with disabilities – to demand better access to their rights; This is proof that the road is still long. We propose to remove the recording of the spouse's income in the calculation of the HAA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u269	Many of us have been campaigning for this provision for several years. In 2018, I had co-signed the bill of our colleague Marie-George Buffet, unfortunately rejected last year. The AAH was established in 1975 by the Guidance Act for Persons with Disabilities and was established as a national solidarity measure to provide a guarantee of resources for persons who are unable to engage in a professional activity because of their disability. The very meaning of this allowance is therefore to guarantee genuine financial autonomy for persons with disabilities. According to the Centre for European and International Social Security Liaisons, under the authority of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the AAH falls within the scope of family benefits: it is considered to be a special-purpose family allowance and should therefore not be considered as social assistance. In this regard, at the National Conference on Disability, the President of the Republic announced his decision not to include the AAH in the universal income of activity, thus making our bill even more legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u271	Moreover, in spite of the increase in the AAH, which can reach 900 euros since 1 November last – as you recalled, Madam Secretary of State – a decree lowered the ceiling of resources not to be exceeded for couples, thus making the beneficiaries of the allowance more dependent on their spouse's income. I would add that the Government has also chosen, since 1 December 2019, to abolish the additional resources, the aim of which was to compensate for the long-term absence of income from work in the event of incapacity for work, which amounted to a significant amount of EUR 179. For all these reasons, the spouse's financial situation should not result in any consequences for the allocation of the HFA. Finally, according to our desire to improve the daily lives of people in situations of dependency, we propose to raise the age criterion to benefit from disability compensation from 60 to 65 years. I have already defended this measure at length at the beginning of the year, when considering the bill of which our colleague Nathalie Elimas was the rapporteur. This measure is in line with the evolution of our ageing society and aims to break the deadlock in which we stand and which is to separate old age and disability. Indeed, a person whose disability occurs after 60 years of age will be eligible for the personalized autonomy allowance – the APA – which is paid to the dependent elderly. However, this benefit is of a different nature and amount from the PCH. While for a very severely disabled person, the disability compensation benefit can reach some 13000 euros per month, the APA is capped and varies from 670 to 1730 euros per month depending on the degree of dependency. Moreover, the APA does not allow for the same accompanying plans. It should also be noted that the 2005 Act provided that the age barriers of the PCH were to be removed within five years. Last January, we took a first step in this direction with regard to the 75-year-old barrier. Today we propose a second step: to raise the age of 60 to 65 – the ultimate goal is of course to achieve the total elimination of these, you understand that. The Libertés et territoires group proposes concrete and quickly applicable measures to move towards a social protection system adapted to the reality of the French. We need to go further, of course. The question of financing the fight against dependency remains open and invites us to reflect on the relevance of creating a new risk of social security, taken over by national solidarity in the form of a single benefit. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, SOC, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] We can no longer postpone unanimous measures, which have been the subject of numerous consultations and substantiated reports. Pending the future reform of age and autonomy, we can and must act today to improve people's daily lives, with a view to social and fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u272	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-13-O1141.u273	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law on various social justice measures; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the right of victims to apply for compensation to the guarantee fund for victims of acts of terrorism and other offences; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the protection and promotion of the heritage of regional languages. The meeting is adjourned.
