ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1702	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 2nd. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting of 30 March 1990 In October 2006, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Bucher, Dr. Bösch, Mag. Johann Maier, Sburny, Reheis, Scharer, Mag. Stadler and Mag. Brigid Weinzinger. [[11:02:13]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1742	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll as a member of the Federal Government as well as Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch refused her mandates and, in her place, Ms Anna Höllerer and Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek were appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the scribe, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1796	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” Sigisbert Dolinschek.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1823	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1842	Anna Helller.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1866	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1881	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[11:03:32]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1909	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:03:49]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2180	Deputies Strache, Kickl, Neubauer, Mag. Dr Graf, colleagues and colleagues have asked for the self-employed motion 19/A(E) by Mr Strache, Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Mag. Mr Graf, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in pensions. Call for urgent request will take place at 2 p.m. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF during the period from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. I'll interrupt the meeting by 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2224	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[14:00:49]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection on the increase in pensions (19/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2261	We are now moving towards urgent treatment of the self-employed application 19/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2324	I give the floor to Mr Deputies as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2345	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs has taken place and honoured us with her presence at this special meeting, which we have requested. In the last months before and after the election, we had to find that the government and, above all, the Federal Chancellor have taken every opportunity to retreat into the ivory tower. ==References== October we had to experience that Mr. Bundeskanzler and ÖVP-Spitzen withdrew into the smelt angle. . I understand, of course, because with all that you have done to people in recent years in the social field, you have little interest in facing it. I note that during the ÖVP election campaign we saw in the election campaign, everything was presented as great – but it's not all so great in our country, and much is not so “super-toll” and social as you try to present it in your election advertising. There are massive problems in our country: There is a social cold, especially because in your work within the framework of your federal government – in that case the still existing minority government of ÖVP and BZÖ – you have, in the past too, made sure that there was no social policy in our country and that many people live below the poverty line. The behaviour of the Federal Chancellor, who has played the insults in recent weeks, reminds me of that of the little Pepe in the band “Asterix in Spain” from the comic series “Asterix”: The little pep always stops the air and threatens to stop the air until it disintegrates. He believes that by doing so, he can impose his will on all. – One has the impression that the Federal Chancellor has handled this in the past few weeks as the little Pepe: to bring it all to a standstill, in order to threaten that something will happen if one does not comply with his will and enforces his will. Do you know who's really out of the air in our country? – The Austrian! You go out of the air, they lack understanding and patience for many processes you have to answer! There are many names that the Federal Chancellor has been thought of in recent weeks and months: “Schweikanzler” or “Stillstandkanzler”. One could add “policy chancellors. ” One thing is really to say: In recent years, there has been a social cold in Austria. There is a social ice age, whose main victims are pensioners. This is a very large group in the country. So it needs a social conscience, it needs a “social missile ”! Today's urgent request will bring this social conscience back to life in this Parliament and ensure that pensioners are not forgotten. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you don't know: It is precisely that generation that has rebuilt our country as a generation of hard work, has achieved great achievements and therefore deserves our respect and also an ageing in dignity. These are the people that have enabled the prosperity we find today. – You, Mrs Social Minister, but also the Federal Government, seem to want to deal with these people by 1.6% with a pension increase. – That is not acceptable to us! To attach it to a symbol: These people are almost left standing in the rain or freezing slowly in a social snow. – In the last five years, exactly those pensioners have had to experience that there have been savings on their backs, that there has been no inflation adjustment and that they have suffered a great loss. The Federal Chancellor probably does not know too many pensioners in the country. He probably knows Mr Khol, for example, who is also a pensioner in the meantime, but as the former President of the National Council, he has a different pension income than the large majority of pensioners in Austria. These people have to deal with much smaller references and have massive problems with them! More and more people are living in poverty and suffering from the “pension clau”, which was produced by black-orange. There's something we've got to think about. It's about justice! There are 2.2 million pensioners in Austria who receive a social security pension. For the various professional groups in Austria, there is a good representation of interests, which ensures that they experience a proper adjustment of salaries. Successful results have always been achieved: For example, there is now a wage increase of 2.6 percent for metal processing plants or 2.35 percent for officials. Only for Austria's pensioners, there seems to be no strong representation of interest, because they are supposed to be paid 1.6% and perhaps – as we have heard now; because you have now got a bad conscience – with an alms of 40 € one-time payment. – This does not correspond to our social policy understanding. You have decided to increase 1.6 percent and, as you have announced, you will submit a resolution on a single payment of €40 for “great” and “great”! - Oh, that's great! You can really say bravo! A great alms for our pensioners! This means that if you spread it over a year, that this would ultimately be slightly more than €3 a month, and not more. Well, the pensioner really can't afford it anymore! – That’s the wrong way! I wonder why the pensioners are not holding mass demonstrations in front of the House today in order to give “Wolfgang, Wolfgang!”-sprechchore or “Uschi, Uschi!”-sprechchore for the best if that would be such a great result. – That’s not a great result! Today, this Pensionist Group must be satisfied with the grueling words of the Federal Chancellor and the ÖVP. – And that can't be it! We want a corresponding increase to take place. We also want to do this for pensioners, which has been so noblely decided here in this House by their own salaries. There is an increase in the salary of the politicians of 2.3 percent. In this respect, one should also have a conscience. [[Call the ÖVP: Index!]] - Yes, exactly! That's where the index is going to try! When it comes to your own gage, the index will try. There you are noble. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is likely that the Members of Parliament and, above all, the members of the government are really suffering from inflation. There is a real need to ensure that this is raised and that poor Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser can afford the “social leave” on the Maldives. That's very important? No, that's not honest! I mean, if you're talking about savings, then you've got to start up here, then we should have gone with a good example here. We will therefore also set up initiatives to ensure that there is a zero wage round for politicians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is important not always to save on the back of the citizens in Austria – and above all not to save on the back of the pensioners. For 2007, FPÖ calls for additional pension adjustment of 1 percent, i.e. from the previous 1.6% to 2.6%, so that what has been done to pensioners in the last five years is remedied. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent years, there has been no adjustment to inflation, and in recent years pensioners have suffered real losses and suffered very much. If you are honest and have a social conscience, you can do not only in the sense of the Pensionist Price Index, which is 1.9 percent, but then you have to allow an increase of 2.6 percent, so that the pensioners who have lost and suffered a lot from your decisions over the past five years can get paid back. – This is the background of our initiative and also the one-time payment of €100 for 2006. We will make this clear later on with motions for resolutions which are still being tabled by us today, as well as with many other additional points. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we should all think a little bit about the following: There are many poor people in our country – especially with the pensioners! 250 000 pensioners live below the poverty line, which should not be pushed so easily aside! For these people, 100 € mean a lot, because 100 € really is a high amount. I understand: If you go to a Nobel Restaurant today and order a bottle of Chianti or Sekt there, then 100 € does not mean so much, but for many pensioners in our country means 100 € much. [[Abg. Murauer: But you are well known for this!]] At least there it would be – at least! – it is necessary to make some good for 2006 with a one-off payment of €100, which has been missed in recent years, and with the 2.6 percent for the coming year, to ensure that not only an inflation adjustment will happen, but also the loss of recent years is almost covered. A quarter of a million people live below the poverty line, many people. You have to imagine this: It is possible in Austria in 2006 that so many people are affected by poverty! For us from the FPÖ this represents a social-political scandal. People with small and small pensions, for example, who have received a pension of € 700 or 800 in the amount of pension since February or March 2005, did not receive a pension at all in 2006 but only received the notification that an increase in January 2007 was "thinked". At a pension of €800, 2.5 percent inflation means a purchasing power loss equivalent to a real reduction of approximately €20 per month. That's a lot of money for the pensioners affected. In the end, this also means a social crisis for many people. Yes, this starts at 20 €, which then is missing when you have rental prices that permanently rise if the heating costs permanently rise when the electricity prices permanently rise. This is precisely the situation that pensioners face today if they no longer know how to cope with their meager, low pension at these high fixed costs. This sluggish pension reduction, which has been in place since 2000, has taken on considerable scale! The situation is that in the case of a net pension of € 1,215 from 2000 to 2006, € 93 lost in purchasing power. That's a lot of money! This corresponds to a real pension reduction of about 7 percent! So this is not a grand success of the Federal Government that is still in office, which is actually a social-political shame! I can only express this. We must ensure that the inadequate increases in the past are finally improved, that responsibility and social justice are finally lived in this area in order to prevent the pooring of Austrian pensioners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When you look at the shopping cart of pensioners, you can see that it includes heating costs, food and public transport costs – I mentioned it earlier – and that is an area that is more affected by price increases than the general shopping cart. That is why this pensioner price index is present today, which is supposed to be consensus. It is alleged that all the parties in this House have indicated that there should be consensus that in the future one will stick to this Pensionist Price Index. This has even been promised by the Minister of Social Affairs – on the first occasion, where she can fulfill her promise, she falls back on the lie: not of 1.9 per cent, but of 1.6 per cent. – These are the realities, and you have to resist them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to ensure that this pensioner price index, which is constantly four tenths higher than the normal index, is also covered to meet the natural needs of particularly pensioners. This is our responsibility – and we will fight today with our requests and proposals for initiative to ensure that we are successful too. Usually, before winter, our pensioners will again be burdened with more. It will be cold again in our country, and there will be price increases again. We experience these price increases especially in Vienna – especially in the “red” Vienna under Mayor Häupl, electricity and gas prices are massively increased. Here we experience that many people simply don't know anymore – and there we have a responsibility. What does this Federal Government do? – It is just proposing an increase of 1.6%. Now, because of our special meeting, she has a bad conscience and brings 40 € as a one-time amount into the discussion and as an answer. – But that’s all. Mr. Khol, as a pensioner, beats in a little bit of purple trees, and he skips to say how great this performance is supposed to be. – That’s not great, it’s a witness of poverty! I urge you to jump over your shadows, leave your ivory tower and let the pensioners do what they actually deserve. It is important to us from the FPÖ that at the end of this day the goal is achieved that pensioners get more than this federal government wants them to. This is the main concern at this special meeting today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We of the FPÖ are concerned to ensure social justice for the older generation, for our build-up generation, especially in the matter of pension increase. In the last six years – I can only see this once again – the ASVG pension base, except for the minimum pensions, has been increased only once, and that was before the election, precisely for electoral reasons. There has been no index adjustment for five years! That's it! There was inflation, and the pensioners suffered real losses! If you count this up to five years with 2 per cent per year, that's 10 per cent. That's a lot of money for a pensioner! These are real losses, where money is missing from the front to the back. I receive many letters from pensioners and pensioners who have approached me and so to speak complain to me. A lady, Mrs. Helga Pischtiak, writes that we tell her from the heart that safe pensions are important, and that she is a minimum pensioner who has to pay 200 € for rent and 75 € for electricity and no longer knows how to get over the rounds. We must, therefore, and want to do so in the sense of our social responsibility, and we as the FPÖ have brought social responsibility into this House. We also want to establish social democracy in its responsibility, which has always demanded 1 per cent increase in the years before, and hopefully is also ready today to make 1 per cent more possible for our pensioners than the Federal Government plans. In this context, I would remind you of the tractor example of Dr. Cap during the Eurofighter debate during the last session. Even today, it will be important to see whether the social-political engine at SPÖ – see tractor example – is tuck, tuck, tuck, and suddenly ends and dies, or whether it will eventually be so that we attack the social-political engine. It should not be the motto of this House for pensioners, but it should be attacked by a social policy engine. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Every group here in this House must live up to this responsibility, must have the courage to give our pensioners what is theirs. With this “social support missile”, which we today establish in the context of this special meeting, we want to ensure an initial inflammation for social justice for our pensioners. That is the aim of this meeting. We will also see that everyone... – I am coming to the conclusion: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The poorest of the poor in our country, in our state Austria, is to stand by. I am looking for you all to jump over your shadows today – and not to make any skiina arguments again, but to really cover the income loss for pensioners in recent years and to ensure a pensioner price index with a pensioner's increase. 1.9 percent...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2477	Mr Klubobmann, your 20 minutes of speech are over. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Bitch.]] Mrs Haubner spoke on the issue of an opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2511	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin by saying: My presence is not an honor to anyone, but it is my natural responsibility and commitment as a minister when it comes to the issues of social policy being present here. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] After the applicant has argued that social damage has been done over the last five years, I would like to point out that this has also happened in these last five years, if I remember correctly, with the votes of the FPÖ! [[Abg. That's what you were!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am already a little surprised that this request is only addressed to me that this request is only addressed to me as a Social Minister, because it excludes FPÖ from providing a large number of public service staff with improvements for the pension, thus excluding FPÖ from not requiring the increase of pensions in accident insurance, the increase of pensions under the Supply Act, the Victims Act, the Victims Act, the Victims Act. I would like to point this out. [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to start by giving a brief opinion. Social responsibility, even as far as my person is concerned, in social policy means that there cannot be a policy of alms for the older generation, but also a safe and responsible policy for the future. In order for older people to be able to spend the third and fourth periods of life as healthy, active and financially as possible, you have to act in good time, you have to put solutions in good time – and that is what we have done. We have not only spoken, not promised before the elections, but we have acted where necessary; I only remember the third pillar of the state pension in a pension scheme financed by the state. We have achieved important social policy goals in order to ensure the living standard of the older generation sustainable and adequate. I would like to remind you that there is for the first time a uniform pension right for all under 50s with a transparent pension account and with a benefit guarantee. I would like to remind you that there is for the first time a level playing field in the sense of equal contributions/equivalent benefits. I would like to remind you that only more than seven years of contributions from employment are necessary for the pension in the future and that the rest of the years can be covered by child training periods. And I would like to point out that we have brought the actual retirement age closer to the rule pension age and not, as in many other European countries, increased the rule pension age. There is also a favourable retirement age for women in Austria. The need for these measures, ladies and gentlemen, was due to the stabilisation of the generation contract, the safeguarding of the state pension for years, due to adequate pensions linked to minimum security and flexible transitions. I would also like to point out that the annual pension effort on the part of the federal government amounts to around €5.4 billion. Now, on the figures, what increases or, as the applicants claim, the reduction of pensions will be achieved. I'm going to mention in the following figures of the main association, because I think you can't say that the beautiful numbers are. From 2000 to 2004 the average age pensions increased by 110 €: 883 € in 2000, 993 € in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also corrected the social deficits of the past, especially in the context of the independent pension scheme for women; in addition to the annual adjustment of the minimum guarantee, the compensatory allowance rate. I should like to make a comment on this point: I feel that the applicants are not quite aware of the tasks of this minimum guarantee or of this compensatory allowance rate. We have increased this guide out of the way, and of course it is adjusted annually, like all other pensions. A few more numbers: Minimum pensioner compensation rate: € 598 in 1999, € 701 in 2006 and € 701 in 2007. – something of which women are particularly affected. We have also made a first contribution – so much about social conscience and social responsibility – to 47,500 women of the generation after 60 years, a financial thank you for what they have done for this country and for us. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] There is a request today to improve the supply of this generation of women, who are conspiring so much in election speeches. We want to introduce for these women who are over 60 years old and do not have their own pension – and that is thousands in Austria – a so-called mother's pension or mother's allowance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I cordially invite you to join this request, because if I remember correctly, it was also a topic of your electoral programme! We have better assessed child rearing times, especially as regards the number of years and the amount of the contribution basis, and we have also reduced the calculation time by three years per child. We have introduced the beneficiary pension insurance for caregivers, for a free pension insurance in case of the care of disabled children the age limit from 30 to 40. The age of the family is extended, and the age of retirement is also considered to be the age of the family hospice. – So much about what we have done for the “little” people. We have put in place proper measures where it was necessary! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Now on what is also the subject today, namely the introduction of pension security with the consumer price index. We have thus met a long-term demand of pensioners' associations and organizations, for we know from experience that everything under the inflation rate leads to impoverishment. That is why we have not only made these adjustments since yesterday or yesterday, but we have had a regular adjustment of pensions since 2000, in addition to one-off payments. What was possible among other governments in 1997 and 1998 we have also taken advantage of. The proposal in question today goes in this direction, of course. I would also like to point out that the consumer price index is a unit of measure. The application states that the consumer price index is 1.5. The consumer price index is 1.6 and is calculated accordingly by Statistics Austria. In particular, it serves as a basis for a legal and clearly comprehensible regulation of pension adjustment, and I remember that the two FPÖ members agreed to this legislation at the time. If additional improvements are discussed today, then this is correct and necessary, but they must also be serious, they must be eligible for funding, and they must arrive where they need people. I don't think I can promise the blue from the sky if it can't be observed. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] In this urgent request, I miss something that has been announced for days, namely that an additional one-off payment of 100 € should also be guaranteed for pensioners. – So much to promise. [[Abg. We are putting forward six motions for resolutions. That's what we're holding!]] I know exactly what I promised. I have never said that the Pensionist Index brings justice to the older generation, because there can be no justice. Let us look at the consumption patterns of a 60-year-old or 63-year-old pensioner who may be very active, and what consumption patterns another one has, for example, is 90 years old, that is, high, and has a special right to care. In this case, however, a uniform pensioner index will be used to bring about disparities in treatment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I and my group stand for and have always intervened for is that people who are no longer in work enjoy their well-deserved pension, then, if Austria as a whole, but also the State, as the salary accounts of the metallurgical and also in the public service show, together with workers, are to have a share in the economic success. That is why the proposal which my group has put forward here and which has also been adopted in the government: a one-time payment of €40 in addition to an increase in the consumer price index of 1.6%. [[Abg. Street: Only 40 €?- Oh, my God!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This corresponds exactly to what the elderly organisations want, namely this 0.3 percent. Especially those people who need it can benefit from this. In particular, there are pensions up to €950, which are above the pension price index, pensions up to €2100 are above the consumer price index. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The facts speak for a reliable, responsible and very specific way in social policy. We have continuously increased over 90 percent of pensions with a rate corresponding to the full rate of inflation, next year with an additional one-off payment. It is gratifying that women's pensions have also increased to a higher degree since 2000. Safe pensions, safe health and care provision are very important social policy tasks, and politics is in constant need of action here. Whoever, however, believes that, in view of this very responsible and sensitive subject matter, must act party-politically, he proves that he does not really want to shape the future honestly. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I continue to stand for a policy for generations, for a policy with generations, where the seniors have an important place, where they also feel a great appreciation, not only in election speeches, not only in requests, but also in actions that are also financially and economically noticeable to them. In conclusion: I think we have achieved a great deal in the area of tax reform in particular in the sense of the seniors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2621	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll set the clock up to 9 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2648	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are quite a number of bad habits in domestic policy, of which one might now almost believe that they are legislative, because they are more beautiful or, in fact, they should be said to come back as well as every year. [[Abg. Großruck: Don't read, talk!]] One of these unsightly Quasi laws is the self-sessing of the government, ladies and gentlemen, in that when the pensioners are pretended to do something quite great and good to them year after year with the increase in pensions. And then you come with the breasttone of social-political conviction, then you have made pension stretching, there you have stretched up to the limits of loadability, perhaps even beyond, and has enabled everything that has somehow gone. So a pension increase, ladies and gentlemen, is hunting the other, at least if one gives faith to the person responsible for Black and Orange. And, of course, it is certain that the purchasing power will be adjusted annually, at least if you can give faith to those responsible for black and orange. But the amazing, ladies and gentlemen, is always that those who are regularly congratulated in such a way that comes to the benefit of this whole matter, when they let their own experiences happen, know nothing of it at all. They are less and less alive year after year. And it's not the ones – that's what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has already tried in his election campaign to tell the people that they're all wrong – who have this feeling, but it's the other way round: It deceives us those who want to convey to us the feeling that it is different from what people feel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do nothing but do something where, in fact, if you want to be fair to the content of the matter, you can only write a “cut” on it, “enlargement” on it, and you assume that people are either too stupid to notice it, or that they do not have any lobby to support it in order to fight against this injustice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One could almost get the impression that the government leaders of ÖVP and BZÖ have also taken their bonds in advertising a large electric trade chain in the development of their social policy guidelines on the pension issue. “Gifty is horny!” – already mentioned today – the slogan is there, and that seems to be exactly the motto, after which again this year by Mrs Noch-Social Minister, I would like to say that despite all the beautiful speech is being acted in truth. Because apparently one has used the highly praised pensioner price index, which is an interesting and important instrument in the matter, on the part of the government only for having something that one does not use, but that is permanently ignored. And this, ladies and gentlemen, although the pensioners across all parties have reached quite a consensus that this should be the measure of things when it comes to pension increases, because the shopping cart of our pensioners looks different from the shopping cart of the normal consumer. That is also quite clear and does not require any major explanations. We Liberals will now do nothing but you, all of you, who are also familiar with your pensioners to speak, and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You must all want and support that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I am already looking forward to the constructive agreement of the BZÖ, which has already been announced by the Minister for Social Affairs. This "Gifty is great!" strategy of the elective Federal Government has, at least in recent years, made sure that we look forward to a full devaluation of the pensions that no one other than you has to answer. This is so to speak, cross and cross the pensioner's garden. Of course, you have also failed to take due account of the compensation beneficiaries in the distribution of the growing prosperity. They have not given them the corresponding and adequate share in this prosperity. In this respect, the government is consistent in its negative logic, which must be left to it. But it is precisely this negative logic, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to break through with a further initiative proposal, so that the perversion – I would like to mention this – does not result from social injustices resulting from pension increases and does not get out less of the line after an increase than he had before. The FPÖ therefore submits the following application: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection is invited to forward to the National Council, by a maximum of 30.11.2006, a government template providing for the compensation allowance to be increased by 36 € to 726 € and the Family Directive by 54.01 € to 1 110 €. I look forward to the constructive approval. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In line with your past failures, of course, the overall result for which this government is responsible and with which we Liberals do not want to find ourselves so easily is a rather sad one. You have to answer, ladies and gentlemen, that a quarter of a million pensioners in that country live below the poverty line. You have to be responsible for each tenth Austrian with less than €800 per month – and all of this, although we, as you always emphasize, are one of the richest countries. After that, we have a decent distribution problem, I would say that you have not solved so far, and it will be our task to ensure that the prosperity is redistributed with appropriate contributions in Parliament. Distribution justice – that’s the keyword! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is why we want to take advantage of this first chance of repair. We do so in full awareness that some have not yet digested the election result and would prefer to grant Parliament a ban on work. We also use this opportunity because time is pressing – you know, Mrs Sozialminister – and until 30. November 2006 must be a regulation to ensure that pensioners know what will happen to them next year. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to show active repentance, active repentance for the failure of the past and for the mistakes you have made. You can do that by agreeing to our requests today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, to implement the word 'fairness' here today and to support our requests. Talking is enough – it is now about dealing with improving the situation for pensioners in this country at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2751	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, Member of Parliament, tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Graf and Mr Colleagues, on the increase in pensions and the legal anchoring of a min- Adapting pensions is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2811	The resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Graf, on the increase in pensions and the increase in the compensatory allowance rate as well as the family directive is also sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2873	The next speaker was Mr Gusenbauer. Requested time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2894	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I mean, a pension debate is a central point of any distribution debate, because the pensioners are the ones who most often depend on a policy that stands by them, because everyone in active life has the opportunity, through special benefits, to bring it to additional income through special efforts. Pensioners must be able to rely on a reasonable evening of life to be financed through pension insurance and pension payments. Therefore, pensioners are politically a very sensitive area, because in the end, not somewhere, but here in the House, it is decided what their chances of living look like. Therefore, it has rightly been found in the past that for pensioners life is more expensive there and there. If one sees that today 55 percent of the total income for housing costs is spent mainly in single female households – and these are mostly pensioners – then it becomes clear to one that these women have anything but easy. If we note that, especially in recent years, not only through Austrian events, but also through international development, energy prices have increased enormously, we know that pensioners and pensioners in particular are particularly affected by these energy price increases – but also, of course, by the increases in basic food prices in recent years. The cost of fruit and vegetables in particular has increased by more than 40 percent over the last six years. This is, of course, a very different price trend than the general inflation rate, which is actually relatively low. The concern for this large group in the population is unheard of. I therefore believe that the special situation of pensioners must be taken into account, because many products, which are part of the general shopping cart, cause inflation rates to be relatively low, are not consumed by many pensioners at all. I am thinking, for example, of price reductions in computers, mobile phones, but also in other areas. Of course, there are also pensioners who use price reductions in these products, but they are not consumed in this width by people today 75 or 80 years old. I therefore believe that this calculation of the pension price index, i.e. there is a different shopping cart for pensioners than for the rest of the population, is a fair basis of calculation, a fair basis of calculation, which reflects very special habits of life. If this pensioner price index is 1.9 percent and is therefore higher than the general inflation rate, we as social democrats believe that pensions should also be increased to the extent of these 1.9 percent in order to ensure the purchasing power of pensions in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not think this is an excessive demand, even if we need to keep looking at stable state finances, because we note that in recent years, up to one time, the increases in pensions have not taken place to the extent of this rate of inflation. This means that many pensioners today, measured in purchasing power, have less money at their disposal than they did five years ago. If you allow pensioners to continue rising less than the pensioner price index, you will unfortunately have to note that there are not only more and more pensioners who are having difficulty but also more and more who go to the poverty line. I find, in such a rich country as Austria, where we are fortunately well-established, where the economy is booming and there are good yields, pensioners should also benefit from the general economic upturn. There should be fairness for pensioners, and we therefore believe that this pensioner price index should be applied not only today but also in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, when we talk about the lowest of all pensions, namely about the members of a compensation allowance, we must note that the compensation allowance is below what is currently defined as a poverty limit in Austria. If we all agree that there should be an age in dignity in Austria, then it must be possible that the minimum pension given to a single or married couple is at least above the poverty limit. To say: Ageing in dignity! – But at the same time allowing many people to take pensions that are below the poverty line, that’s, I don’t think, all right! We therefore believe, with all due respect for the stability of state finances, that it is most reasonable and fair to raise the compensation allowance for the poorest pensioners at the poverty line and there is an increase in pensions within the Pensionist Price Index by 1.9 percent. To this end, there will be a legislative proposal from us by Social Democracy, which is the basis for this change. I believe that this would be a fairer, just path, a way that pensioners in Austria deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e2982	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Molterer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3004	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we all know that we are not only guilty of our appreciation to the older generation in our country, but of course we are also responsible for the fact that the older people in our country can experience their aging on a secure material basis and in dignity. That's important. The elderly people can rely on it – this is a major political consensus in our country – that politics bears responsibility for it. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is based on something, that is, on the basic political consensus we have on the generation treaty, which ensures that the young generation is able to live up to the active working generation of that solidarity commitment, and can also meet the expectations of the elderly. Therefore, any discussion about the future of the pension system is a discussion which, of course, has to take account of the situation of older people and which focuses on them, but in the same way – out of the responsibility of the generation contract, and from this responsibility we must not say goodbye – for the young people of our country, also for the actively employed people, of course, both sides of this medal. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] I therefore believe it is very important if, in a responsible way, we are talking politically about the perspective of the pension system and about its concrete improvement, of course, we are in the same way involving the older and the younger generation in our political considerations. The elderly people have a right to this in our country – and on it the younger people also have a right in our country. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] In the sense of this policy guideline, we have therefore put forth the effort in our political work to secure the generation agreement on a sustainable basis, but not because, ladies and gentlemen, we simply promised the blue from heaven, but because we have said: We need to further develop and harmonise pension systems where this is necessary so that the generation contract is permanently out of dispute. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, no society in Austria in which old and young are played against old. We want a solidarity society in our country! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] And because we have done this, we are today in a happy position to be able to discuss how and to what extent we increase pensions – quite unlike those countries that have not undergone this effort. In the UK, for example, the Weisenrat proposes not to make any increase in pension by 2012. In Germany, it is proposed that no pension increase be made by the year 2010. – But with us it is quite different: Because we've changed, we can now increase pensions. I think this is right and good, not only in the sense of the need for a basic position for the elderly, but also in the sense of justice in the social distribution effect, such as the much greater increase in minimum pensions, as we did in the last retirement adjustment. The pensioners of smaller pensions have benefited particularly from this. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] That is why we are also proposing a legislative proposal today. We propose to increase pensions by a total of € 540 million in the coming year – this is an increase of 1.9 percent, ladies and gentlemen – because we respect what the senior representatives send us to signals. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ]] We are also working on the social dimension with our proposal in a different way, and we should then discuss it. Our proposal is that of these 540 million € we take about 460 million in the sense of linear adjustment – and give an amount of about 80 million € according exclusively to social distribution points to the elderly. What does that mean? People need to know. If we were to say that these additional 0.3 percentage points – that is also said to the social democracy colleagues – we would distribute linearly, then this would mean that a very small pension of about €300 would be increased by €12.60 per year, whereas, according to our proposal, the additional amount will result in an increase of €40 per year. So it is precisely in this social dimension, of which all are talking, that it is really targeted, namely to help the people involved in smaller pensions in particular. We are therefore saying: Yes, we take 1.9 percent of money into our hands and distribute it in social terms, so that the people involved in small pensions benefit disproportionately from it, which is far more than 1.9 percent. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] I think we should now enter into this competition of political ideas. We put our model on the table: social, fair and just. But, Mr Strache, we are also going to the difficult levels of politics and say how it can be financed. They, on the other hand, make it very easy, go out here and say: We just put €1.5 billion on the table! [[Abg. Strache: That's not true at all!]] For the first time in Parliament, and already you want to put 1.5 billion on the table, but do not say at all how this is to be financed. [[Abg. Straight: 0.1 percent is €22 million! It's hard for you to calculate!]] Mr Strache, take note of the distribution effect of your proposal! I don't know if You thought about it: First of all, you don't have your one-time amount in your urgent request. And second – I looked at it exactly –: An average intergovernmental pension – and there is not much of it at all; these are those who have obtained a pension in Austria but do not live in the pension in Austria – is currently 195 €. In your proposal, a pension increase of 18 percent would come out there! – Is that socially responsible and just? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, no!]] I'll tell you: You have not thought through your proposal: neither in terms of financing nor distribution. We from the Austrian People's Party do not make political life so easy! We feel responsible for financial and social justice – and this corresponds to our model. And now we are entering the political competition by comparing the different models. I think we have presented something solid and socially just.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3131	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3154	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all on the current issue, namely the increase in pensions in 2007. As far as the State's responsibility for public pensions is concerned, I share the view expressed by my previous speakers: In fact, people in working life usually have more opportunities to change and take appropriate opportunities, while this is no longer the case for pensioners in this context. The Greens are essentially proposing two measures: One measure is an increase in the ASVG-pensions by 1.9 per cent, i.e. in the context of increasing the pensioner index instead of the consumer price index, because we believe that, despite all the problems that Mrs Haubner mentioned in her speech, the pensioner index shows the needs of pensioners by the type of flat-rate survey of cost of living on average rather than the general rate of inflation. The second area, however, is also a very important one in our view, and I shall put forward a motion for a resolution. This concerns pensions which are particularly low, namely pensions with a compensatory allowance. Of course, pensioners with compensation have always been in the poorest and poorest areas of pensioners. Since March this year, there has been a large-scale EU study on the risk of poverty, carried out with the help of Statistics Austria, i.e. the competent Austrian statistical offices. It stated that the poverty risk threshold in Austria is currently – in fact, it has been two years since – with around € 850 per month for single households or about €1 090 per month for double households. These are anyway low amounts, and if you change the 850 € per month to 14 times a payment, then you get an amount of about 730 € per month. This is the official definition of the risk of poverty. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Strache, this proposal is also based on the financial viability of pension increases. He can be financed in view of the development of contributions if I have correctly understood what Mr Gusenbauer or Mr Molterer said in this context. But what you have proposed, Mr Strache, is not eligible for funding in the context of the development of contribution revenue. They have even been silent on the issue of financial viability. In other words, If we were to do this as the FPÖ suggests, we would have a huge financing problem by 2008 at the latest! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Pension reform debate!]] You would then have to justify why the retirement age needs to be increased, the pension contributions would have to be increased et cetera, which is available in the range of measures. Mr Strache, the following scandal cannot be left unmentioned. [[Abg. Is that a scandal?]] Yes, that was a scandal! In your press conference, you did not provide any specific information on the financing of your pension proposals according to APA. But they mentioned, among other things, art subsidies for “Nitsch and other bulk and faeces artists”! [[Abg. Strache: The taxpayer should not be forced to pay for such a thing!]] Mr Strache, whether you like or not the pictures of Mr Nitsch are irrelevant. Whether I like them or not is irrelevant. Whether Mr Nitsch has ever been subsidized in his life is a completely different question. But that he is an important exponent of modern Austrian art, Mr. Strache, that is indisputable! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: It can't be that the taxpayers are being congratulated!]] We will know in 20 years more precisely whether his influence was temporary or whether his influence was an important, sustainable and lasting one towards the end of the 20th century. But you can't call such a person a fecal artist! The only one serving a fecal language here is you, Mr. Strache of the FPÖ! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At least it was striking for me that neither Mr Gusenbauer nor Mr Molterer addressed the current situation regarding the alleged negotiations on an upcoming government between SPÖ and ÖVP. – As I hear in rumor, the rest of the House and the population in Austria can generally look forward to a statement by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Schüssel at 3.30 p.m., which would be about 25 minutes. I am only looking forward to this with damp interest, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, because of these explanations that can be interpreted... – That was my voluntary speaking time, Mr Westenthaler! [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] These statements can be interpreted, and nothing will follow them except further negotiations on whether negotiations are under way to discuss whether to talk to each other. Mr Molterer and Mr Cap von der SPÖ have said that seven weeks of so-called negotiations are the whole result... [[Abg. Höfinger: Isn't that right again?]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is not right for me, Mr President, to say that you have nothing else from the ÖVP just like you from the SPÖ after seven weeks – on Sunday the seven weeks – to show yourself – but to talk about nothing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Don't you want to rule with me?]] You really want to sell that to the population as a success? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Mr. Col., I'm on 1st. October – perhaps mistakenly – believed that the election result suggests serious negotiations between SPÖ and ÖVP! To this day, I have been bitterly disappointed in these expectations. At 3.30 p.m. we will see what Gusenbauer and Bowl have to tell us again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] So far, I can only say: You have abstained from all the negotiations, Mr Molterer. – I don’t know what you think is so funny! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, can explain to the population what you have been doing in these seven weeks? – So far you have been out of control! Until yesterday, you have declared that negotiations will not take place as long as the investigation committees run. Since yesterday it is said that you already want to negotiate, but only if the ÖVP has been granted a veto right here in Parliament. Of course, you have to make that up primarily with the SPÖ, that's none of my business! But as a parliamentarian, I'm telling you: That the ÖVP with its 34 percent gets a veto right here in the house, you may be able to tell that outside, but not here in the High House! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What you proposed yesterday is an expression for all the other Members. Probably – I'm looking at the clock now – becoming But today at 3.30 p.m., you declare that anything is quite different from yesterday! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== October I am slowly really excited. I mean, the responsibility to this country is a little harder than you seem to suggest with your funny activity here in Parliament. You shouldn't have reinvented the world! For example, they could have obtained the large Wifo study, which describes a concept of how Austria can be put on a sustainable higher economic growth. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What are you doing? – For seven weeks nothing! That's seven more weeks of time loss! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Do you want to rule with us?]] You accuse me, my colleague, that I do not want to negotiate? – First of all: Has You invited me? Secondly, What majority is this supposed to do? Maybe together with the fecal artists of the FPÖ? Do you think so? That's a joke! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Pfui-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] – I thank you many times for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3380	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen! Here in the house the accusation “faecal artists” must not be made! I ask you to take this back, or I'll give you an order call. [[Abg. Dr Van der Bellen: Madam President! With all due respect for your office and your efforts to reject it: I prefer the order!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, I'll give you an order call. Mr Van der Bellen has just tabled a motion for a resolution on the increase in the guidelines for compensation allowances to the poverty risk threshold. It is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3451	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Total time of reason: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3472	Madam President. Government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Make this up to you with the fecals themselves between green and blue, I do not interfere! It's supposed to stay with you, and it's good! Professor Van der Bellen! You have dealt with the issue of government education here for a long time, and you have said little about pensions. However, if you, like you and the Greens, since the first day after the election refuse, do not take part and do not want to take on any responsibility in the country, then you must not wonder if you are not there! You have to say that, Professor Van der Bellen! You took yourself out of the game! That's the problem! But now I come to the real issue of pensions, because that is much more important. This is supposed to be the main topic today. I am now addressing the applicants, Mr Strache and the FPÖ in particular. Mr President, if I look at this request and listen to your remarks and to the whole debate, which is now running out a little bit and in which the pustle goes out as well, I will tell you: It's just too little if you read Asterix as the only reading to prepare this special session! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm sorry to tell you! Even those at Asterix had at least one intellectual in their ranks, which is Miraculix, and you would have needed it to be able to formulate the application, because this request is really for recovery! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is a request to forget respectfully a request of oblivion! What was forgotten! For days now you require 100 € as a unique special payment. – But this is not the case in this proposal! Why doesn't that stand in there? [[Abg. Strache: There's a bill!]] I thought that was a urgent request! Now I'm learning: The 100 € additional are not so urgent, so they are not in the urgent request! – That is, as I said, a request for oblivion. They have not planned at all a pension increase for small officials in the police, the federal army or the professional fire department. They leave you in the rain, because you don't want to make a pension increase! That's what I'm saying: That's not okay! They forget these people, however, we do not forget them in our pension increase. There's a big difference! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Mr Molterer pointed out: The main beneficiary of your strange request to forget is the foreign pensioners. 314,000 pensions are paid abroad. [[Abg. Strache: ASVG-pensionists, right?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Molterer calculated: If it goes after you and you add 100 € to it all, then there are double-digit pension increases. – Your voters in favourites, simmering and girlling will be happy to serve foreigners with pensions here in Parliament! [[Abg. They're wondering about you!]] It's really incredible, Mr. Strache. You're doing it! 1 billion € more costs Your package, especially for foreign pensions, and I tell you quite honestly: They have not put on the table a proposal for funding. If so. Your policy from the first day in this House is simply to put billions of proposals on the table, not to calculate them and not to say how you want to pay it, then this is not a good initiative, but then it is actually the way to the state bankruptcy, which has already been done in other countries, because you have been running around with the filler horn all the time. That's not okay! [[Abg. Strache: Your arguments are soaked out of your fingers!]] Mr Strache, I am referring to you – I am now saying something good! – that I think you have just meant it well with this request, and I think it is good for you now! But you know: The problem is – and you have to learn today – that well meant often is the opposite of good, and that happened today with your request! [[Abg. Strache: This is the personalised prepotence!]] Your proposals are the opposite of good, because you simply throw the money out in billions of height and are unable to differentiate in such a way that even those corresponding increases they really need, and not always everyone who wants it! This is also our approach to social policy, and that is why we also have a good balance sheet. I'll show you something now, look! [[The speaker presented a paper entitled “Pensions in Austria”.]] [[Abg. Strache: Now come back for fake tablets!]] They always say: The pensions have fallen. – To that I reply: From 2000 to 2006, in six years of this government, there have been pension increases of 12.5 percent on average. That's something great! Remember the SPÖ government: There was no pension increase at all in 1997! There was zero pension increase and a zero wage round. In 1997 the pensioners didn't care at all! For example, there were no measures under a social democratic government to count child rearing as retirement periods. That never happened! We have done this, four years are accountable, and today we will also submit an initiative proposal so that injustice is eliminated and finally a compensation is made for those mothers – and there are 170 000 in Austria – who are over 60 years old, who have raised children in a difficult phase, who have not acquired retirement periods through these child rearing periods, and today are among the weakest in society, the so-called mother's allowance of 150 € per month, so that they also receive a thank you from our generation for doing something. This is a performance-oriented increase in value for older people and mothers, and we will therefore present this proposal today as an initiative proposal. That's fair, that's all right. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] The second approach to our social package, which we also want to bring in today, is the care allowance. We want to raise it by five percent. We are also very excited about this, and there was also a great debate before the election. – We from the BZÖ keep what we promise before the election, even after the election. That is why today there is also an initiative proposal for a five percent increase in the care allowance. Mr Cap, I still have this in my ear – that sounds beneficial and doesn't sound what I heard from you at all –: The new parliamentaryism has broken out. There are changing majority in this house. - Wonderful! I just hope that this will still be true today and that it will be the whole period! We will take a very close look at what happens with this proposal to five percent more care money, and I assume that you will agree with it as well as with the mother's money and, above all, with our third main initiative of today, namely the heating aid. Only in the last few days did the “Kurier” read: “ Winter is getting as expensive as ever.” – This is a very serious matter. Many people are afraid because they cannot afford heating because of the high energy prices, and it will be a cold winter. That is why we want to make a single national heating allowance of €150 for this season, which is therefore uniformly federal, so that at last it is concluded that various subsidies are being made in different countries. I claim: On average, Austria is so small that it is likely that winter will be the same cold in all federal states. That is why we do not need different grants, but a uniform grant. That is why we have tabled an own-initiative proposal, and I assume that the SPÖ will also be in favour of changing majority voting. I look forward to it and believe that this will be a success! Like even the pension reforms of this government are a single success story. If you don’t believe this, read the international newspapers, for example, the “New Zurich Newspaper” of 23. September 2006: ‘The reform of pensions’ is one of the ‘permanent merits of this government’. - Or: “The site” Vienna “has done a good job”. – “The constructive contribution of Schwarz-Blau” – still at that time – “is in a willingness to reform for decades no longer experienced,...”. And now a great quote comes from the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, which already goes a little into the future: “If after five years of black and blue there and there calls for a great coalition, it should be remembered that” – the great coalition – “was the cause of almost all problems. If the cost of concordance and structural distortions were calculated, it would be more appropriate to order sanctions in Brussels, in case of a relapse to a large coalition (...).” This is something that the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” writes inexorably. We do not want this, but we have a good witness here, a good witness to our reforms and to pensions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Strache: You should have called today for another reason, and that has something to do with pensions. This is perhaps a small celebration of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats today, because you know what is happening on Sunday? – On Sunday, in two days, your deputy clubman Ewald Stadler acquires the right to a political board! [[Oh-Rufe at BZÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oh, that's it?]] On a political board – and now it comes – into which he volunteered himself in 1997 to get a lucrative luxury board for a politician! That's what happens on Sunday. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One speaks of a “golden Sunday, ” or in horse sports one says “Jackpot Sunday”, and perhaps you celebrate this with your group. So much about the words you've found here that you're not practicing privileges! [[Abg. Strache: How much are you worried about?]] Mr. Stadler, your deputy clubman, has done very well! He can get a pension of up to €5,000 out of political activity alone, because he volunteered in – and that's not okay. Now you explain this to the small pensioners, the average pensioners, the minimum pensioners you so often quoted, that your top-ranking politician volunteered – not like you, that it was legal, but voluntary! – has opted in the pension to get a better pension. This may also be the reason why the jubilar is not here today and is missing at your special meeting. Mr Stadler is not here at all; he has already known what comes to him. I'm telling you, we're fine with our pension reform. [[Abg. Strache: But that was your predecessor, Haider, who did all of this!]] 1.6% plus 40 € Single payment, which means that just the small ones under the average pension get more than 1.9 percent. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's responsible. This is a good reform with which we can live well, and a reform that also ensures pensions for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3685	Next, Mr. Dr. Graf. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3707	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! It is clear that this is difficult, Mr Westenthaler: When you return to the High House after four years, you have to be re-learned – if you can't do anything else. 'Cause you forgot everything! Mr Stadler did nothing but then imitate Mr Haider's actions. He also has the old pension privilege, like many others in your ranks. - I just want to say that. Mr Westenthaler, I would like to say this: What does “financing ” mean here? . We have put forward a proposal, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, to increase pensions by 2.6%, so by 0.7 percent more than it is already consensus here in the House! That is why this urgent meeting is already a success: We are taking out more for pensioners through the initiative of the Austrian Freedom Party than the Federal Government originally planned! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The government is moving, it is beginning to move. The opposition moves like that. Our proposal of 0.7 percent more than what already exists in consensus here in the House costs € 175 million a year and no billions, as Mr Westenthaler or Mr Van der Bellen said. [[Abg. Street: Not 1 billion!]] 175 million € a year! Total pension costs per year amount to around 22 billion; 175 million are about 0.7 percent. What does this mean in the overall view of the federal budget? – The total federal budget of this Republic is around 116 billion €. Now, if you compare these €175 million – that is, what our request for extra costs would cause compared to what is consensus in the house – then the 0.15 percent of the total federal budget is. I say to you at this point, ladies and gentlemen: These are the older citizens and fellow citizens who are always worth the pensioners! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I don't know where you live with your party partners. Mr Molterer: To secure a generation contract? - You say it's about pension increases. That's not right at all. What you propose is at best a pension adjustment to compensate for the loss of purchasing power in order to pay off inflation losses, but no increase yet! Look You're in this Republic, aren't you? Wherever you go, there are poor people. The poor people have become more and more: 1 million Austrians live on the poverty line, 300 000 Austrians live below the poverty line, including many pensioners! We have therefore launched this initiative to show here once again a social element in a situation in which the government has created a standstill and which also exists in the coalition negotiations. But today, five minutes ago twelve, the lazy ones become diligent! And what does the ORF do with the rulers of SPÖ and ÖVP suddenly in a boat? – At 3.30 p.m., the promised transfer of this meeting will be interrupted by the ORF! Mr Westenthaler! They were always a representative of parliamentarianism. Is it okay that now, at 3.30 p.m., because the two party chairmen want to make an announcement that ORF is interrupting this transfer, which concerns our pensioners? – This is a scandal of the very first goodness! Madam President. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal, yes!]] [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is really a scandal!]] I would ask you, in the sense of parliamentarianism, not to do so in practice, that the representatives of the people can no longer be heard in the ORF! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because Mr Westenthaler has always said that he is waiting for our single payment request: Here he is! I'm going to bring him in, and I assume he's at least supported by the BZÖ. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we owe this to our pensioners! And to the address of colleague Van der Bellen: You have proved today that you are far below the level of Mr Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3815	First of all, I note that Mr Graf's resolution on single payment for pensioners for 2006 has been properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3863	I also note that all five club chairmen have protested about the interruption of television broadcasting. Mr Westenthaler has now referred to an actual correction. – Mr deputies, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation, then the corrected one; then, 2 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3890	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, Member of the Commission, has just said that Mr Haider should have done just as Mr Stadler did in the pension scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Thank you for my...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Does the old regulation apply to him or not?]] - First of all. Secondly, he noted: “as well as some in the BZÖ Group”. I am indeed correct that neither Dr. Haider nor “some in the BZÖ Group” have done so much as Mr Stadler did. In 1997, Mr. Stadler volunteered into the lucrative political-pension system, while Dr. Haider, who had been in politics for more than ten years, was a legal measure, unable to decide which pension scheme he had taken. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Stadler has performed. Second actual correction: I note that no one member of the BZÖ Group is in the old system of political order. That is, all BZÖ delegates sitting here are in the new system and do not register as lucrative political board as Mr. Stadler: about €5,000 from his 61. Year of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3944	It has now come up with a report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e3966	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to focus briefly on the calculations made by Mr Graf, especially because they do not vote, but rather because they do not agree on the extra cost of the so-called FPÖ proposal. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has obviously forgotten or overlooked the fact that the additional costs of the pedestal requested by it have been calculated with respect to the cover. In particular, it is the required base, namely a pension increase of at least €36 – by the way also for all the others who are receiving a pension abroad and who are occasionally criticized by you, Mr. Klubobmann – that is in particular this pedestal, which is going through here and with your desired pension increase of €2.6 percent costs of €1.2 billion. Together with everything else, it is then €1.5 billion. By the way, the cover hardly meets anyone, maybe 5, 6 or 7 percent of the high civil servants' pensions, but otherwise it doesn't work. In other words, there is a very significant error in the calculation, which goes seamlessly to what Mr Westenthaler has already told you about the content of your request. This proves that your proposal is a lot, but one certainly not, namely fair. And he's not eligible for funding either. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to what our club-man Molterer focused on, namely that today we should also use this debate to discuss the issue of generation-contract/generation-righteousness, the justice between old and young. The generation contract is something virtual in space; it has never been formulated. But we know that it is important to shape our pension system and many others in such a way that this generational contract remains true: a pension system that is secured by the payment of payments, with the assets paying the pensions of the pensioners, in any case to a good part. There is a need for a particularly sensitive approach to this generation of justice. In addition, it should not be forgotten that 1 € from €4 on pensions from means of taxation, i.e. from budget resources. A quarter, exactly as much as 26 percent, is thus still due to the tax cake of those who are normally active. So it's double-sensitivity: the generation contract plus what is needed in tax benefits. In the light of this, I believe that what is on the table by our group and that it is being submitted as an initiative proposal is not so far away from the idea of social democracy. This is a tremendous progress in so far as we can now say Austrian pensioners that it is legally fixed: 1.6% increase in pensions on the basis of the consumer price index and the devaluation. 1.6 percent as the basis of our considerations, and that somehow automatically: Mrs Bundesminister Haubner would not have needed anything legal to do this, but a regulation would also do so because the legal authority is there. Now again to the difference between the 1.9 percent as we see it, and the 1.9 percent, Mr Cap, as you see it: You can discuss both of them. First, however, we think that these 40 € in one-time payment also represent 1.9 percent, but are just more justly distributed, because the pensioners get a little bit more. For example, compensation recipients who receive €700 would be at least 2 percent on this basis. So it's 1.9 percent with us, but it's socially fair, and that's what we're talking about. On the question of the pensioner index: This is one thing that belongs to broad political debate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there is this pensioner index! I assume that it has been calculated serially; at the moment it is higher than the normal consumer price index. But two comments: First: Why is there no index, for example, for disabled people? – What they need – and we know these people, they are part members of the House – these are personnel costs that usually rise faster than much else. Why is there no youth index? Why is there no women's index? That's what I'm asking myself: Where do we end? What's this move? And: Does that make the system fairer? For a second comment, I look back on a graphic by my colleague and companion Ursula Haubner. [[The speaker holds an A4 paper at the height on which a line chart is drawn.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This pensioner index is now a few tenths above the normal VPI. In recent years, however, he has also been below it. Between 1987 and 1991, he was among them, and between 1999 and 2001 he was among them. And what... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then let's stop that we have some...!]] Mr Dr. Graf, prefer to calculate what your pedestaling is, the right numbers! The opposite is a good thing, we have already heard from Mr Westenthal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, then, we have different indices, but are politically stopped and almost forced to take the higher value each, then that is the opposite of financial sustainability. And the other way around. Once we have to increase below the CPI, because the pensioner's index is below it, we need an explanation which I do not necessarily want to condone and agree with as political leaders. Proposing financial sustainability. It has already been mentioned several times by our side today that generation contract, generation fairness and fairness for old and young are of course also meant to represent pension security in the long term. It was one of the key themes of the cabinet under the Chancellor's bowl. In particular, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Secretary of State have devoted themselves to this issue intensively, and we have brought a lot together in these years. We have implemented the pension reform. We have presented the harmonisation of pensions – there is no such thing throughout Europe that the pensions of public servants, at least for the future, are harmonised with all the others! In the end, we have achieved an objective that has now been confirmed by the experts of the EU Commission, the Economic Policy Committee. In addition, the “New Zurich Newspaper” was also reported about this – in the country, there was a lot of silence, and we know why: It was an election campaign, and you didn't want to hear that. What does this European Commission's Economic Policy Committee say? – We are not one of three or four European Union countries that have done something about this, but we are the only country in the 15 EU Member States under investigation – in other words, the old one; Mrs Minister of Foreign Affairs, you apologise for this flatteringness – where sustainable pension insurance has been successful! This has even been recognised by the experts in Brussels. That is, we can really tell the young people of this country – not only in the direction of the elderly, for whom it is secure anyway, but also in the younger ones – that our pension system, our ASVG system, is so sustainablely represented that it is not only secured for the next few years but for the next few decades! This is a good news, ladies and gentlemen. In recent years, however, we have also done a lot to ensure that social justice is exercised. It was the cabinet bowl that, since 2000, increased the minimum pensions – i.e. the compensation allowances – by just under €90 to € 690: 14.2 percent! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, between 1995 and 1999 it was just 30 €, so much less. However, we have added to the APG's pay-back-financed pension system two other systems – complementaryly, not alternatively – which already develop their impact and which are covered in capital, i.e. non-refundable. The finishing new is nothing but an employee care for all. Our employees' representatives know that the finishing age was very nice for those who received it, but it was extremely unfair because only 20 percent of the workers ever got something of it. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you will be pleased to hear that already more than 2 million workers, that is, well over half of Austrian workers, are in the system of finishing new ones and that the saved volume, which is secured and that does not get someone else through any payback activities, is € 1 billion! Last but not least, there are the provisions for the future: 800 000 contracts! Many Austrians use the benefits offered to them by the Minister of Finance's premium gratefully: an additional pension for later on with an average 10% premium of the Minister of Finance from the budget for the future. In other words, our pension system is not only on one leg, the ASVG leg – although it is still the most important with 70 to 80 percent – but there are clearly two other legs: employee care and the provision of the future. Leave You conclude me with a consideration, which in fact is already contained in our last government agreement and which can contribute to the topic: What can we do to reduce the risk of poverty in this country in the future? We have successfully reduced poverty in this country in recent years, the figures confirm this, but there will never be a stop, there will have to be more activities. A minimum pension for all, a basic pension for all – that seems to me to be something that would be really superior. If you look at how many people there are in Austria who don't get a pension at all – men over 65 and women over 60 years of age – then you can see that these are just 25,000 people, that is, quite a manageable size. They depend on social assistance – with all uncertainties, with all injustices. Unfortunately, the countries of God pay sociohelp at a very different level, and especially not at the level that would secure existence, at least not in the basic equipment. In the forthcoming efforts to combat poverty in our country and in the attempt to find ways to reduce the risk of poverty further, how to do so socially reasonablely, I think that the consideration of the introduction of a basic pension, a minimum pension for all is quite reasonable and, ultimately, also eligible for funding, because it is an exchange of social assistance against compensation because it is a relatively manageable group of people, and – and this distinguishes our considerations from yours of an unemployed basic income – because these are not people who can or want to be in the acquisition process because they are already in the retirement age. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Mandak]] Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4027	The next item is Mrs Bures. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4049	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit sad when Mr Westenthaler obviously has nothing else to do but take care of his own pension or that of Mr Haider, and actually does not care about what it is about, namely that we should take care of the pensions of those people who work hard in this country. That's sad, but that's significant for this still-government group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a very large proportion of the population, over 2.2 million people, who are truly not among the most privileged in Austria, whose lives are often not very rosy and whose lives unfortunately have not improved, but have become tougher. As far as the pension adjustments of the years before 1999 were concerned, they were so fair that, in recent years, this government has permanently set up pension increases under the inflation rate on the grounds that there would have been a surplus that the pensioners had received far too high pensions in the years before 1999 and therefore the pensioners actually had a loss of value. Their representation, there had been no increases before and now flowed milk and honey, is therefore one – everybody knows because he feels it – which is drawn to the hair. In my opinion, it is about accepting the real life situation of people. This is ultimately the task of politics. It must be our common goal to ensure that people who have worked hard are not threatened with poverty at age. Mr Federal Minister, you have completely disregarded the group of women in your speech. It is especially the women who are at risk of poverty. The median pension for women is 674 €. More than 100 000 women in Austria are at acute risk of poverty as pensioners because they are minimum pensioners. All the figures that the social report and the poverty report show are a sign that we have a lot to do that there must be many changes in the pension system, that there are many injustices to be overcome in the future. As a result, I think it is high time that pensioners were at least compensated for the pension in full and not below the inflation rate. In the future, it must not be the case that pensioners are not allowed to compensate for inflation. Mr. Federal Minister, it sounds chemical when you say: We do not have a youth index either, and we do not have a women's index, so why should we do this to pensioners? There's already a difference: A pensioner or a pensioner has nothing to do with the fact that the fax machine or the mobile phone will be cheaper if, on the other hand, the cost of a pensioner or a pensioner, namely the cost of medicines, food, energy, rent will rise exorbitantly, so that pensioners now have to spend 55 percent of their pension on housing costs. That is why this is a very cynical approach, in which I think we should not show it, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are many people in Austria who truly do not survive. I explained earlier how the cost of living is: There are just 200, 300 € per month for life – often after a very hard and busy professional life. I therefore think that we should put three objectives out of the question for the future. First: For the future, it is important that we guarantee that pensioners will be guaranteed the full value of their pension – and we are still far from a pension increase. Secondly, I think it is important to deal more fairly with women in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe it is important that in future the differences in the working processes and careers of women and men should be more taken into account. Thirdly, I believe that it must be possible again in the future if you have worked hard for 45 years, that you will retire without deductions. [[Accompaniment with SPÖ and detonative accompaniment of the abg. Bitch.]] As far as attention is concerned, I am very proud of the representatives of the Pensionist Associations and also of the older generation in this country, because they have never required anything that would have been exaggerated, but they have always acted with a great deal of attention and with a very high sense of responsibility. I think that the 1.9 percent of high level of responsibility is evidenced and that this has a lot to do with the generation contract. We want no more and no less than a fair adjustment, and that is the 1.9 percent that we want to bring into the committee in a legislative proposal. I invite all of you to give your consent to this fair arrangement. [[Abg. Oils: Here!]] I think this would be a contribution to greater justice and fairness, a contribution to the fight against poverty and also a contribution to social cohesion of all generations. That's why I'm appealing to you: Let us take this work together in the interests of pensioners!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4109	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4131	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If I listen to you like this, I'll ask myself: What are politicians for? – To make billions of demands, free according to the motto: Would you like something! What's Geiz – and what's not? I now quote a reader from the “Kronen-Zeitung”, who writes: “Our politicians should quickly and quickly become aware that they are employees of the Austrian people.” He is right, this “Krone” reader from Linz: We are employees of the Austrian people! We have the obligation to work for the good of all generations: for old and young. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Is it the good of all if pensions are increased at the expense of the boys? – Complementation to the FPÖ, if it really is her deep concern to increase pensions by 2.6 percent and to add €100 to it if it can also finance these 1.4 billion without affecting the chances of the boys! [[Abg. Street: 475 million are that! I don't know what kind of invoice you're doing! These are completely false calculations!]] It would also be nice to give 10 percent pension increase – but without funding absolutely irresponsible! Federal Chancellor Schüssel has predicted: Claims that go beyond the government plan would cost so much that they would soon “eat up” all savings in pension security reform. - Do you want to? In recent weeks, I have met almost 1,000 seniors here in Parliament and asked them about their wishes. Most people want their grandchildren to get pensions, too. And the “blue plans” that expose “blue billions of demands” expose many as the “blue thunder” before the possible elections. Dear FPÖ colleagues, don’t play the game here “Who offers more?” on the back of people who deserve our respect and help! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] In the “Press” issue yesterday, the Pensions-Guru Bert Rürup was quoted, which says: “The Austrian social state is more modern than the German.” This is above all a success of the ÖVP! In Austria, pensions are guaranteed beyond 2050. Austria has the fourth highest minimum pension throughout Europe. But that you can't make big jumps with a very small pension, I know. Yes, Mr. Strache, there are poor people too. Therefore, more will be added to the smallest pensions in the future. The Council of Ministers has decided to add €40 to a one-time payment to the fixed payment of the price. This means – which is very important to me – that more than half of the pensions should be increased by more than 2%. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] Thanks be to those generations who have created the foundation for a happy life in our fascinating country. – Dear parents, we are proud of you! We'll never let you down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does that mean for future policy? How can we master the future? – We should hang the Christian-social values over the bed! We need solidarity, a fair share of labour income for all – but not as election sugars, but quite honestly funded. Only in this way can we maintain social peace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whether the pensioner index should be a legal basis, as the senior pensioner's government has demanded, the new government must deal with it. Minister Pröll plans to include Caritas President Küberl in future discussions. – An excellent idea! We work together in a serious way for the good of the older generation – but we do not go beyond our wishes, which we cannot finance at all! Let us discuss the social question with passion, how we can prevent the grave between the poor and the rich from getting deeper! – This is our mission, and that is the task of politicians! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4232	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4253	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now is one of the rare moments in which the television viewers have a bit ahead of us in knowledge. They have heard what the party chairmen of SPÖ and ÖVP have declared to be the progress of coalition negotiations or what is now being negotiated, whether negotiations are under way, how negotiations are being conducted. We don't know yet, at least not everything. But I have heard that they have agreed to a concerted procedure in Parliament. And that's where I'd be interested: What does that mean? What does that mean with regard to what we are negotiating here and now? This is about pensions today, ladies and gentlemen. But I am not concerned with all pensions – I would like to express that – and I am not concerned with all pensioners, but I am concerned primarily with those who have little pension. One has to imagine: 85 percent of pensioners have a pension below 1 350 € gross. I emphasize: gross! Every pensioner with 1 350 € grosso can tell you exactly what the net is, except for the cent. This does not mean much more than € 1,000. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us also talk about the compensation beneficiaries! How much do they have? They only have 690 €. You want to increase this to €700 gross – “necessary”, as you are, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. Of these, 4.5 percent are still deducted for health insurance. I have not heard a speaker/no speaker from the government parties who have said: Yeah, that's right! But you didn't say anything else. You didn't say: That's good! Or: We can't afford that! If you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, are now talking about a coordinated procedure, I would like to know what this means in relation to these pensioners. That would interest me. How do you want to deal with the people who have 700 € gross? Do they now have a right to at least increase this to an amount with which they are somewhat protected from poverty – what is not much anyway?- Oh, my God! 730 € gross! – Can you imagine that you can live really well from 730 € grossto? I know what it means to have to live from 730 € gross. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Dolinschek.]] My mother is a compensation beneficiary. I know what it means when she predicts that in her daily budget. And I can tell you: I am in a happy position to sit in here and can therefore also give money. But not all of them can pay something for their parents. It is, therefore, the “damn ” duty of this House to deal with the situation of these people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you: We agree with that request, which calls for the right one – with all the difference to the liberals; and I am certainly not the one who will not. I think the sage with the “faecal artists”, who came from Mr. Strache, is so inconceivable and so on the other hand, that it is not often enough to emphasize how far that is from any reality. You, Mr Strache, have not only meant Mr Nitsch, but you have meant all the cultural creators you want to take away the money they do not receive from the Republic, because most really live on a bet, because the Republic is not even able to equip the cultural creators. [[Abg. Strache: About Muehl we can also discuss!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Republic is obviously unable to equip the pensioners with the minimum of existence. That is why we and I do not care whether the request for compensation comes from you, Mr Strache. There is also a request for compensation. And I can tell you: Yes, we will also agree to the request for freedom, because if he demands the right thing, it is also right if the liberals demand it – because they have not also written the unsaidable, thanks to God. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am now interested in the attitude of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. I'm not satisfied with Mr Amon saying: Yes, a minimum pension and an increase in the compensatory allowance rates, this is an interesting idea! Of interesting ideas, the compensaters can't cut off anything, not even a slice of bread. Do you agree now and today, or do you not agree? That's the question! This applies equally to the SPÖ – because the SPÖ has, I would think, a bigger problem to say or not to say: We do not agree! But we are interested in the question: Are the 1.9 percent justified: yes or no? Where does the justification stop, Mr Molterer, for the 1.9 percent? Do we really have a situation in this country where you can say to people who, for example, have 1,500 € gross pension: The 1.9 percent are not allowed for them? We've increased 2.35% in officials. Some officials say that's too little, some say it's right. But that's 2.35 percent! And with the pensioners, do we stop at 1.6 percent? That can't be! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you are now required. And we will look at exactly how you will vote, whether you will agree to the request of 1.9%, which I will now submit. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, now we want to know: What does coordinated procedure mean? That you do not now agree with the 1.9 percent you have represented? – Then it is not coalition new, but Coalition ancient! Then we are in the Stone Age of Parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4354	The motion for a resolution on the increase in pensions for 2007, which has just been tabled by Mr Oellinger, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4424	The next speaker was Mr Schalle. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4445	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am only briefly in Parliament, and I am actually very glad that this special meeting is taking place today so that we can finally work again. However, that this request comes from the FPÖ and thus includes unrealistic demands, I can only call it farce. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What this Federal Government has carried on in terms of pension reform in the last two legislative periods is worthy of recognition and can really be considered as progress. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] It would be socially unfair to increase pensions by amounts which are not eligible for funding and thus go at the expense of young and future generations. We have the responsibility to comply with a generation contract. Former governments have lived for too long in this country at the expense of future regions. [[Call the SPÖ: Why “regions”?]] That's from the old clothes collection. This government has stopped this trend and has adopted rules that will benefit young people today. Let us not repeat the same mistakes of previous governments and drift into debt policy! For these things, it is well known in politics, especially if one does not have to finance it and not have to answer for it. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I am therefore convinced that the procedures negotiated in the Council of Ministers are a very good and, above all, a quiet solution. A 1.6 percent increase plus a one-time payment of 40 € for each pensioner can be little for one, but for the other very much. But we are quite sure: These demands are realistic, i.e. they can also be financed in the long term. The demand for a 2.6-percent increase for the next year and after a one-time payment of € 100, as introduced in the FPÖ's application, are pure utopia, which I can only call eye-catching. You can't really believe that this is realistically financeable! Do you want to conjure up states like in Germany, where the boys go on the road and no longer want to pay for the older generation, or where the retirement age is increased to 67 years? But one thing, ladies and gentlemen, must be clear to us, namely that the pension regulations, based on the generation agreement, need a policy of long and well thought out concepts. In conclusion, I should like to remind you that pensions are about long-term, forward-looking and intelligent action and not about making people hope that cannot be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4500	The next item is the report by Mr Neubauer, with a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4521	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Allow me to speak briefly to two previous speakers. Mr Van der Bellen has quoted the members of the Liberal Group as “fecal artists”. I strongly reject this for my person! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to take a short look at Mrs Aubauer's statements. Mrs Aubauer, you have explained to the amazing population why something is not going on in this country. They have found all the possible arguments for why something cannot go and what must not be, which does not come from the ÖVP. The fact is, of course, that you yourself are responsible for what we have brought in today. This is the failure of the government in recent years, and that is why we are demanding 100 € for pensioners today, because the loss of the value of pensions in recent years has amounted to exactly 4.3 percent; that is 93 € per month. That's why our 100 € have become so coherent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And because you're always talking about something that can't be financed: Look To your Minister of Finance, who said in October that there are a total of €1.4 billion more corporate tax revenue this year. If you can't finance this system at €1.4 billion, I don't know what you can do to finance a pension system at all. Now I can come to the actual request I am going to make today. The number of children is an important prerequisite for pension and tax law in Austria. The education of children is of high social value, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not think that we should make differences between social shifts here. I cannot imagine, as a liberal, that there must be differences in the education of children, whether this applies to social weakness, a buyer, a middle-class mother or a politician. That means direct payments must be the same for everyone. I believe that mothers all raise their children with great love. However, families are severely disadvantaged by our current pension system. I therefore believe that the system of child rearing is currently not adequately implemented and that the value of child rearing should definitely be doubled. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Show courage for a social turnaround in our country! Please agree to our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4623	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Hofer, Mr Klement, Mr De Keersmaeker and others is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4695	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darabos with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4716	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! I too would like to take a brief look at statements made by previous speakers. Mr Westenthaler, you have provided proof of why you have not left anyone in this House, because you have questioned – and this has actually happened in the discussion – that someone who, based on a trust principle, has to pay pension contributions in Austria and pays pension contributions, then has the right to a pension. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] Only because You're carrying out your brother-in-law with the FPÖ here, that's it. One must confess to the foundations of pension policy and pension bases in Austria. Their statement was actually immense, and we Social Democrats reject such statements. So I wonder how long you were able to survive in the government. - Point one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point two: You have addressed the issue of heating aid here. In recent years, they have had the opportunity to agree on SPÖ applications with which Austrians would have been able to grant this heating aid. They have repeatedly rejected these requests from the Socialists and the Greens. Belief is different! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also addressed to the FPÖ: I believe in principle that the idea of deciding more than the government has promised for the pensioners is right, but, Mr Strache, your request is based on bad conscience from my point of view, because you were in office from 2000, I believe, but at least until 2005, the Federal Party Chairman of FPÖ, who was in the government for a very long time. [[Abg. Strache: There you are completely wrong!]] You have taken the decisions of your party in these years. You can't discuss this: You have taken the decisions of the FPÖ in this House! And these decisions in this House or the government have just led us to face the situation today that pensioners in Austria have suffered purchasing power losses. For these purchasing power losses, FPÖ is at least as responsible as the ÖVP and the BZÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also explain this to you by means of numbers: Year 2000: Inflation rate 2 percent, pension adjustment 0.6 percent. Year 2001: Inflation rate 2.3 percent, pension adjustment 0.8 percent. And that's how it goes. Year 2003: Inflation rate 1.3 percent, pension adjustment 0.5 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Read this from 1997! How much have you increased?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What was 1997?]] – The social democratic governments have done enough for pensioners in Austria, Mr Scheibner, you can assume. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What was 1997? - Zero!]] With your policy, you have made sure that there have been 8 percent pension losses and that the purchasing power of pensioners in Austria has been weakened. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much was the SPÖ government in 1997?]] That is why I welcome in principle the discussion that we must go beyond this 1.6 percent. If you need an unwarranted witness for this discussion, it is the Commission's opinion on long-term pension insurance. It makes it quite clear that one can stick to the consumer price index as regards the increases in pensions, but it also stands literally inside as regards indicative values: ‘The increase in consumer prices shall be determined on the basis of the average increase in 12 calendar months by July of the year preceding the adjustment year, using the consumer price index 2000 or an index replacing it.’ “Or an index that replaces it should be used”, that is to say, quite clearly: It is not the normal consumer price index, but – this has been mentioned several times today – the index that concerns pensioners. That is why it is clear that the increase in pensions must exceed this 1.6% of the government's proposal. I am also pleased that in today's debate, the government party ÖVP has already signalled that it is at least in favour of a 1.9 percent pension increase. Consensus in Hohen House is at least that 1.6 percent is too little for pensioners, because this is the generation that has built Austria. It has been pointed out several times today. This is the generation that, while having a lobby in the person of pensioners and pensioners, has no lobby in the trade union sense. We will stand up for this – and are also quite sure – that on 29 October. A pension increase of at least 1.9 per cent for pensioners can be decided in this House together in November.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4843	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. I would draw attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Maximum speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4871	Mr President. My dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! An actual correction, for my part: Mr Darabos has claimed that from the year 2000 to the year 2005 I was the Deputy Federal Party Minister of FPÖ. – This claim is incorrect! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God!]] I was a countryman in Vienna, there was opposition politician and therefore I never had the ability to carry politics in the Federal Board because I was not a member of the Federal Board. That claim is therefore incorrect. To clarify: From the time I became a German Federal Party representative, I made sure that the FPÖ has become a social Austrian party again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4907	Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e4929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a social politician, I am actually very glad that all political groups are concerned about how pensions will be secured in the future. However, I also note that some are very short-term thinking and short-sighted, because it is not only about a pension increase in one year, but also about keeping in mind the safeguarding of the pension system in Austria at all. Of course, the Austrian pension system, which has proved its worth in the past, has to be adapted to the circumstances of modern times. This has also happened in recent years. The Federal Government had to react on the basis of the emerging and foreseeable development in the economy, the employment situation, the budget, the whole structure and demographic development, which is not only subject to Austria, but the whole world. Especially in Europe, the same patterns exist in the individual countries. The system had to be rebuilt in time to adapt to the circumstances and new challenges in order to be stable and financially sustainable. In this regard, I believe we have demonstrated in the last six years how it is done, and at the same time we have promoted social cohesion between generations. You have to take everything into account: How high is life expectancy? What is demographic development like? Who is in employment now? Who pays for the payment system so that those who have also earned a pension because they have worked their lives so that they can also enjoy their retirement and keep their standard of living? That was always very important to us. For example, since the Social Democrats have criticised the fact that too little has been done for women today, I must say that we have also dealt with this very area. In the past, women who have often taken over child rearing did not have their own pension, no own pension. We have made this possible on the basis of 1 350 €. 1 350 € is the basis for the pension periods for children's education. Four years per child were charged with the pension harmonisation in 2004. It's a milestone! If today the colleagues come from the FPÖ and demand the double: Well, you often mix apples with pears. Unfortunately, the Social Policy competence has come to you through the excretion of Mrs Haubner and me, but I hope you can still say something about Mrs Rosenkranz, because in the past she has played a significant part in this area, too, so that people can be given the opportunity to receive a pension for the so-called unpaid work. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the BZÖ]] That's exactly what it's all about: We have also taken care of those people who have long periods of insurance, long periods of employment, so that they have the opportunity to retire by the year 2010 at the age of 60, namely the so-called hackler rule; and also for those pensioners who have worked hard in working life if they have worked hard for ten years in the last 20 years, by getting a heavy-work pension and can also retire at 60 with lower supplements. We've taken care of it! After all, there are about 41 percent of new pensioners who retire early on through an incapacity or invalidity pension – that is not to be ignored! – and only 15 percent actually reach 540 insurance months when they retire. That's got to give us some thought, too. If the people were on average eight years ago in retirement, but today 20 years ago, it costs something! And this has to be paid for by the generation that goes into employment to maintain the payroll system. We must also keep this in mind, because in my opinion this is also very important in this area, so that those who are in employment today also have a perspective that they will also receive a pension in the future and not only be allowed to pay. We owe it to the young generation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the legal pension adjustment, which has been introduced here today and which has been done with the consumer price index – by the way, by the way, Mr Darabos – with 1.6 percent, and with a one-time payment of € 40, with which we are practically 1.9 percent, and for which the cost is estimated at € 545 million. I believe that this is a measure that we definitely meet with all generations. This pension adjustment is also regulated by law. This is the current mode and was also decided with the approval of Mrs Barbara Rosenkranz and Mr Bösch – who voted in favour of it at the time – and this has been implemented. Of course, it is always unthinkable for politics to go far beyond that in good years. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We agree with every improvement!]] I do not believe that it is a question, if it is possible to ensure higher pensions and single-time payments – which then do not entail follow-up costs – that is of course also important. Much has already been said about the consumer price index. The Pensionist Price Index was introduced to the meeting and asked why not use it. I warn everyone to use individual indices. If you build a disability index, build up a youth index, and so on, you have a chewing fox! If you take the driver's index, you have to use a driver's index for each donor, which, of course, plays a role in the cost, in the wage increases and so on. I would be curious to see what the union would do in the wage negotiations, because this is not quite easy to understand. So we can't mix apples and pears here. It is necessary that we have an index here, that is the consumer price index, and we should stick to it. As regards the pension adjustment: For 95 percent of the statutory pension insurance, we have practically carried out an inflation tax, and in addition – that is, the 5.5 percent who receive a pension above €1 920 – it is also this €30.72. For this we are always standing, because a kilo of bread, a litre of milk, the food costs for everyone the same amount, no matter how much someone refers to pension. There you can save at the high pensions rather than at the low. That was always our dogma, and you should stick to it. By the way: A consumer price index that is different for a 58-year-old and for a 62-year-old or for a 70-year-old – this would not be understood by a pensioner: a difference only because one has retired earlier and the other is just older. That has neither hand nor foot. I believe that we have chosen a good path with the proposal we have put forward here: with our social package, which we have bound, where we provide for mothers who do not have their own pension, who are born or raised a child, a mother's allowance of 150 €; and in a co-financing together with the countries, similar to in 2000, a heating allowance for those who are now moaning under the high energy prices; as well as an increase in the care money – which has always been a concern to us, Mrs Federal Minister. We already wanted to spend this in the past for the 2006 budget, but we did not succeed. But now an increase of five percent, that would be appropriate! Today, the Social Democratic Group has already addressed the increasing cost of medication: An increased amount of care money would be a measure so that you can afford it too! With regard to the development of a basic requirement-oriented security, it is very important for us that we act in all areas where it is necessary – and do not take a shot into the blue, which is unfinancing, just as it is provided for in the proposal that has been introduced here today by the colleagues of the FPÖ. You can no longer understand what was brought in to Kauderwelsch: on the one hand, a 100 € one-off payment, on the other hand, 1 percent more than 1.6. – Is that 0.016 more, or is that 2.6 percent? – At 2.6 percent, this would result in 1.5 billion extra costs! How do you want to finance this? [[Abg. Strache: I expect you to figure out what you're giving false numbers of yourself!]] As the honourable Member of the FPÖ said earlier that this was to be financed by the public authorities, I would like to reply to him that this must also be budgeted. And you also have to tell the people that they have to pay more for it, and that is then unfinancing. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5015	Mrs Fuhrmann spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5036	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote Mr Darabos, because he said something very right. [[Abg. Riepl: He always says something right!]] He said that it was important to stick to the basic principles and the basic principles of the pension system we have in Austria, and that means that the working generation pays for the pensions of those who have retired well deserved. This is basically correct, and in recent years we have also ensured that Austria is the only country within the European Union as a model, which has managed to achieve equality – namely, an actual equality – between all pension systems. This is a fundamental principle, and it is very plausible to put it in the foreground. If Mr Darabos were present now, I would ask him how he told his own children – I think he has two – that, if they retire, they too can still expect to receive a pension from the state, a pension, a pension. It would interest me in principle, as the SPÖ imagines. But I have seen that Dr. Cap has yet to speak; perhaps he can answer the question of how my generation, the generation of children, can still be expected to receive basic protection from the state. - That's the first point. And the second point is: If Mr Strache is speaking about the need to support the poorest of the poorest in the country, I must draw his attention to the fact that there are not only those among the elderly who are not wealthy, who may even live on the poverty line, but there are people in every population group who need support. – Focusing purely on this group of voters, because you think you get the most voter, or maybe to think that those are the ones that can influence the lightest and the strongest, are already a bit negligent. In addition, Mr. Strache, since you are still one of the young people in the house, I am already surprised that you act as a lawyer of the seniors and do not think of the young generation, because gender righteousness – and the responsibility is... [[Abg. We're here for all generations!]] At the moment you're only there for the older generation, because your proposals cost €1.5 billion! [[Abg. Street: 345 million € cost them, and no more!]] I would also like to ask myself the question – perhaps one of your colleagues can still explain – as you will then follow the principle of the payment procedure, as you would like to make sure that the young will also receive a state pension. [[Abg. Street: 345 million extra costs are it, and not anymore!]] Your colleague Kickl also spoke about a distribution problem and about his desire to ensure distribution justice. – So the concepts that have been put on the table so far are anything but fair, nor do they solve the question of a fair distribution, because if a pensioner who gets in about 100 € pension actually gets out according to your proposal under the rule only 4,20 €, then that is all but fair. [[Abg. That's wrong!]] I think you're also trying here to sell the population a little bit for stupid, hoping that the opinion is simmering that two percent are more than 40 €. [[Abg. That's what you're doing!]] This is simply wrong in your bill – and people have failed when you believe. You can't underestimate this either. [[Call the FPÖ:Worstsemmel!]] I believe that politics, namely generation-oriented politics, can only be done if one thinks of all generations. These include a variety of levels. Generational policy is not only to be looked at punctually when it comes to pensions, but there is much more to it! It also calls on the social partners to negotiate, for example, when it comes to abolishing the principle of seniority in the income scheme. There are still ages and titles paid today, and not the performance. This is a great disadvantage for young people! But, as you have seen in the past: Young people are willing to make their sharpest contribution to their solidarity! But as soon as there is only the spark of suspicion that election sugar is distributed at the expense of future generations, our solidarity has reached its end. I think solidarity must not be a one-way road, and not at all policy at the expense of the young generation. .. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5169	Mrs Mandak spoke next. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5191	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, What the state has done to pensioners in recent years... – these were some of the first words of colleague Strache when he came to the speaker's desk today. Here in the hall we know, the spectators don't know: It was the same FPÖ that carried the government's course in recent years! Yes, Mr Strache! [[Abg. I wasn't there, no!]] [[Abg. Strache: These were my predecessors!]] It was the liberal parliamentary club here in this house! [[Abg. Street: From which we separated!]] –The Group has voted unanimously throughout the social area, and you have to stand here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You already say goodbye to the political responsibility before you sit in here at all. Stand by where you belong! [[Abg. Strache: We are responsible!]] Do it! [[Abg. Grandruck: Bravo! Is it over with the “fashion course ”?]] In essence, we are dealing with two requests today, and I am very excited whether the SPÖ will support these requests today, because they have been calling for all the time. On the one hand, we are talking about raising pensions – for us very clearly the result of the situation of pensioners who have suffered significant losses over the last five years. They have had additional increases in health insurance contributions and self-retaining payments to be made. It must be in your mind to agree! The second point is the fight against poverty in old age. We are very clearly concerned with increasing the compensatory allowance rate. We could not understand if you would refuse to agree here. At present, 150 000 women are affected. The situation of women in this area has still not been discussed relatively much today. Two thirds of those concerned are women! Due to the pension reform you have made in recent years, you have made this situation even worse. They always point only to one point, and that is the higher consideration of child care times. What you always conceal is the increase in the calculation period for pension entitlements to 40 years. And with that, women will be completely, very scarcely disadvantaged! This pension reform, which you have decided by the ÖVP and the liberal parliament club including BZÖ, will result in women getting even worse pensions in the future than they now have! The points mentioned above are from our point of view steps that need to be taken. In addition, however, there is still a need for far-reaching measures. We have developed a green pension model which differs considerably from the present one because it means a pension claim for everyone and everyone. That means, everyone and everyone has a claim to 800 € basic pension per month. This is then supplemented by the pension which is added by work. The big difference is the: We have not yet talked about all those who do not even have a right to compensation, namely those who do not have a pension at all. That's about 25,000 people in Austria. They only receive social assistance. They are not entitled to social assistance, and social assistance must be paid back immediately when they receive only a little more money. It is about that every Austrian can safely expect to receive a pension at age. This also calls for the parliamentary club to introduce the mother's pension. Give everyone and everyone in Austria the right to a pension, then save yourself – and in addition do not discriminate against those women who did not have children, could not have children or did not want to have children and still live in poverty! These women are no better off than those who were lucky to have children. That's an unequal treatment you're doing here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second important point would be to ensure the compatibility of family and employment work at last, so that women can also have their own pension entitlement through work and therefore fathers also increasingly participate in family work. A third point, which seems to be part of a completely different area, but which will be carried centrally here, is that of the energy turnaround. They always require heating subsidies. – A heating-cost grant is always only a limitation on the damage to those affected. In Vorarlberg, gas prices should be increased by 17 percent! Thank God we had elections, and then we did not make the increase in the price to that extent. But if you look at what extra burden there is on everyone, but especially on those who have little income, then the answer can only be: Away from oil and gas and into an energy transition with renewable energies, so that in the long term not only for pensioners but for all of us a life in warmth is allowed – and not in social cold, as we have had in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5295	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5317	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! There is now a bit of unrest, especially between the two larger groups, because it seems that the last press conference has already had some effect. Mr Cap is already very keen to negotiate joint proposals with the EIA. How will this be with the open Parliament in future, Mr Cap? We'll see how long it lasts, we've been very excited. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Main thing, you're there!]] Perhaps you will then agree on something else again, but I hope, Mr Cap, that you will contribute to the important initiative that the Federal Government has now set with the increase of 1.6 percent plus a one-time payment of 40 €, together with us and with the Austrian People's Party, because this is an important measure to improve pensioners in Austria. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] To do this, Mr Strache, we did not need your special meeting! One thing was interesting: One makes a special meeting, announces a urgent request, and when it comes to making an appointment, it is not so urgent at all – because there would have been, one has said, needed a few more days and only next week this meeting will take place. [[Abg. Street: Friday – today we have it!]] We then said: Please, if it is so urgent, then a little earlier! and that is why we have this sitting today. [[Abg. Yeah! You don't believe that!]] Mr Strache said in the presidency that he wanted to negotiate with the other political groups in order to make joint motions for resolutions. – You didn’t negotiate with us, I don’t think the ÖVP is going to be so big either. We therefore have this urgent request here today – and this one would really have taken some time to be revised, I give you the right! That's what we should have done next week. If we had known that, we would have given you this time too, but we believed that four, five days would be enough. If I look at this proposal, I have to say: You can't be serious! It can only be a mistake that: You want to skip all the public service! As far as pensions are concerned, the Minister for Social Affairs has already said: Special pensions... – Only ASVG-pensionists? - No, not primarily. [[Abg. Strache: This is primarily true of the ASVG-pensionists, you're right!]] [[Abg. Strache: The ASVG-Pensionists first and foremost!]] They write in it by FPÖ “without pragmatized and similar public servants. ” – I don’t know what a “similar public servant” is, but you can only mean contract staff. That means that the entire public sector would be excluded from the increase in pensions. That's what I'm asking myself: What did a little cop do to you that you want to take him out of this pension increase? I ask you, Mr Strache, and ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: What do you have against the soldiers of the Austrian federal army that they should be excluded from this pension increase? What do you have against the thousands of little officials who really don't deserve much that you want to exclude them from this pension increase? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It's in there, please! You have written in expressly: “without pragmatized and similar public servants. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] The reasons do not apply to them, in the application, okay. I like to communicate with you. Let us come to the request: They say that the entire pension adjustment should be at least 36 €, but not more than 66 €. – What does “the entire pension adjustment” mean? – Perhaps that could be said by the following speaker: Is that a month? Is that a year? Does it even apply to everyone that they get only 36 € or 66 € at most? – Because then what we have brought in here is really more, ladies and gentlemen! So this request is somewhat inaccurate, and I tell you that it is also unfair. We are also opposed to public leaders – we do not want this increase to be implemented as strongly as we do – but the small officials – the executive officials, the federal soldiers, the firemen – should also enjoy a decent pension increase, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] The 100 € you have also forgotten! You have now said in an interlocutory call that there is a bill. But now you have just tabled one motion for a resolution again, so you have forgotten to put it here. That only on your urgent request. You said it needed a carrier rocket. I think the whole story was more like a pipe-creper. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] We can already see that we are right with our pension increase, because Mr Kickl – that was also interesting; You see, I really am dealing with you because I'm trying to work out something else – he said he wanted a redistribution, a redistribution also in the pension system. Redistribution? – So far, I have only heard of the SPÖ as a goal: Redistributing, constantly re-grading all income differences. That's not our system, and so far, I don't think it was yours. [[Abg. Strache: Just distribution!]] This is a new line towards the left, because of course we want distribution justice, and we also want to do so – and we do! – that pensions are guaranteed, but we also have a responsibility towards the young generation, which is today in the work process. [[Abg. Street: For the last five years you have robbed the pensioners!]] And if we calculate what you want to do now, then you have to explain to the 20-, 30- and 40-year-olds today why they really have to worry about their pension: because it is simply no longer eligible for funding! That's it! One can now easily bring in any applications – a little more precise would be better and even more thoughtful – but it must also be financially and forward-looking! Because we don't want to stand back in five or ten years, where we stood five years ago – and you were really there! – where we had to clean up the shreds of 30-year-old SPÖ policy, where we knew that we had to change to the three-pillar model for a long time: state, business and private pension provision for the young generation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We have introduced it, but we want this system to be financially financed. That's why: Value assurance for pensioners, but no gifts that the young generation today has to repay in 10, 20 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5471	The next speaker was Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5492	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that it is a very funny session: One has a lot of fun here, it is being trampled, the Secretary of State smiles and grins, but the subject is a serious one: It concerns future insurance, pension insurance for our seniors. Therefore, one could also expect a little more serious to come into the session. As far as the financing is concerned: The proposal we have made today means additional costs of € 350 million! 350 million €! [[Abg. Strache: That is not worth it to them!]] It's not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. You know that in the first half of 2006 alone, we had €400 million in additional income from income tax. You know that with 1 cent of petrol price increase at the gas station of the Finance Minister, more revenue is €13 million! So there's more revenue. Why don't you want our seniors who have built this country to benefit from it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not a question of giving older people something at the expense of young people; they have paid for many years. That is why it is so necessary! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about pensions today, we also need to talk about the so-called heavy-worker regulation, because these many people in Austria who work hard are negative. Why? – Heavy work will only be evaluated in the last 20 years: One must be at least ten years of hard work in order to be covered by this scheme. How does the practice look? – A young lady, a young man who is a caregiver in shifts or night shifts, who lives heavily sick people – and I know how it is; I was a long enough plumbing after an accident – has a really heavy job, and this work is also considered a heavy work. But: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Year of life? – If he persists and then is physically in the end and changes his profession, ladies and gentlemen, he is not considered as a heavy worker under this scheme – and he is not covered by the heavy-worker regulations and must continue to work for 65 years. This small group of persons covered by this scheme cannot also retire free of charge. When they retire at the age of 60, the persons concerned must accept discounts in the order of 9 percent! We need a fair system of heavy workers, so we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I very much hope that you will support this proposal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on care, the need for care in Austria and, in this context, pension periods. I am allowed to distance myself from the reading of this request because it is present. It is about ensuring care in Austria for the future. One point that I can still give you is particularly important to me, namely that those people who decide to take care of the father, the mother, the child at home also have the opportunity to have this time taken into account for pension reasons. We must be glad if there are people who are taking on this difficult task! It's not that simple! There have to be done things that you may not be used to, which also mean that you have a completely different relationship with your father and mother than you used to. And if you don't delegate these tasks, this is a very, very special achievement that the state must also honour. In view of the above, the following comments were made on the financing: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it easier for you. I said earlier that there is a means of financing this increase in the income tax. However, I also believe that we must start with ourselves, and therefore we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, if you are so strong against the Pensionist Price Index: Sage She asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do so. As criticism of financial viability comes from the ÖVP: Once we know how much the EU Presidency has actually cost, we will also be able to take your numbering work seriously! And in addition, it doesn't make a good picture when someone who doesn't know how much a sausage cream costs when someone who negotiates a discount when buying shoes says here: We don't give our pensioners any more!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5581	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Hofer, Kickl on the increase in pensions in relation to heavy workers' legislation is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5633	I also announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing, which has just been presented in his key points, has just been presented in his report. Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on care emergencies in Austria were also presented in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed; it shall also be printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5762	Finally, the motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the freezing of political salaries is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5820	The next item is the voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes; the remaining speaking time of the Group is 7 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5842	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been very interesting to listen to these debates. Above all, it was also quite exciting to see how individual parties now want to pour out the filling horn over the population, not only about the pensioners, but it was a true collection of applications that was submitted here. If one cannot answer the budget and if one does not have to look at whether there is financial viability, then it can easily make promises that will, of course, as it now looks, not be observed. It was also interesting, as Mr Klubobmann Strache has repeatedly stressed, to what "social cold" the policy of this Federal Government should have been equipped with. Of course, there is a question of where the liberals were actually in the many measures that were implemented in the social field and which were very, very positive, not only for pensioners, but for all Austrians. But you didn't seem to be there. You, Mr Strache, have not been there, nor do you have any responsibility for it from the financial point of view. But you'll probably try to make politics in the future. But politics does not work at the push of a button, but it is necessary to set priorities, since it is necessary to implement reforms in order to guarantee future security. Especially in the pension sector, this has done the best for this Federal Government and is also praised internationally for it. This Federal Government is given great recognition for the social measures it sets out. If you stand here and speak of the fact that the benefits that are to be provided in the course of this pension adjustment are not really great, then this may be so, because it is not possible to promise unfinancing, simply to make yourself here and to say that there will be a lot of money. But: These benefits are eligible for funding, fairness – and above all solidarity within the meaning of the Generational Treaty. This means that responsibility will be taken over by our Federal Government for all generations and, above all, for the young people who are now actively involved in the work process; also for the very young people, who will also be able to hope for a safe pension in the future. Although some times today it has been said that this pension adjustment, which is being made here, should take place according to a pensionist price index, but here you expect the consumer price index, I must stress: This pension price index is very likely to be taken into account in this presentation of the ÖVP. These 1.9 percent are very well addressed, because there will be an increase of 40 € at low pensions. This means that the very low, i.e. the low pensions are increased by more than 1.9 percent on the basis of the measure as envisaged here. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Oellinger, I can also get something off the pensioner price index, and I believe that you really have to think about how to look in the future. [[Abg. Oils: Decide, don't think!]] That is why I now put forward the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5901	Mrs Colleague, I have not yet received your request. I will therefore announce, after the next speaker, whether he is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr's speech; the rest of her group's speaking time was 2 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard the discussion this way, you can really believe that many have no idea what they are talking about. And this opinion is entitled. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you know what I am missing from you is: Do you now agree with the Greens' requests, yes or no? They have not yet spoken out. As there was another discussion this afternoon between Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Schüssel, where new conditions were set again, we simply want to know this. Do you want pensions to be increased by 1.9 percent to the maximum basis? – Then you have to get up in the vote and don’t sit down. We'll see if you do that. The other question, ladies and gentlemen, is: If it has been said here that 1.9 percent are too much or too little, I have to tell you that you have no idea how poor people have to live in society. And that 1.9 percent pension increase is absolutely not too much and that at the same time the compensatory allowance rates need to be increased, is not a grace for people who have little money and a low pension, but it should actually be a matter of course. But you don't see it like that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can also imagine why you don't see this like this: Because you have no idea at all how people who have nothing, not even a roof over their heads, although they have a pension. As insensitive as you are in this area, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have made this clear in your election campaign. They were in the election campaign in a homeless facility. And do you know what you've distributed to the homeless people as an advertising gift? - Keychains! So if that doesn't go by the thing and if that's not cynicism towards homeless people, then I don't know! They're homeless because they don't have any money to take an apartment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5962	Mrs Colleague, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e5977	But you did. And by the way, Mr Dolinschek, perhaps you can tell me what the disability index is because you mentioned it before. Are we being weighed in kilos or broken, and how are we valorized and counted every year? You have invented this index, because there is no such index at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6014	The request by Members of Parliament for an increase in pensions following a pensionist price index is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6060	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Mr Darmann with a speaking time of 5 minutes; that is the rest of his group's speaking time at the same time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6081	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Appreciate High House! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that it is a great honour for me to be able to intervene in the national Council today in the parliamentary process away from the committee of inquiry. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I would also like to say straight away: I am very surprised to hear from Mrs Hellerer of the ÖVP, who was one of my previous speakers, that the ÖVP has so far rejected a fixed pensioner price index for the next few years, but now wants this fixed note. This is very surprising, and you're wondering why. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now it's up to you. As we all know, the most important principle of our pension system is to ensure the third pillar of the three-pillar pension scheme, namely the state-backed pension scheme. As we all know, the demographic development of the Austrian population leads to the need to provide an ever-increasing number of people in employment for an ever-increasing number of pensioners. I would like to remind you that 30 years ago the average pension period was eight years, but it is now – fortunately – at an average of 20 years. This pension period must be financed. Why do I recall this fact, ladies and gentlemen? – With pension harmonisation in 2003/2004, forward-looking and responsible, in line with the budgetary, economic and demographic situation, were set the course of a financial and future-proof pension system. In order to secure the system, there was the possibility of working longer on the one hand, making higher contributions – or taking up lower pensions on the other. In order to be fair in dealing with the topic of pension or pension provision and in the sense of a fair adjustment of pensions, the government at that time decided to mix the steps set out. And that's what I'm at the point: As a representative of all generations and as a young Austrian, who is very well aware of the achievements of the older generation in our country for our home country, I strongly advocate the maintenance of a state-backed pension, which must, however, be based annually on the basic economic conditions in the country and must not call into question the financial viability. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this sense, I call on all of you to take account of the financial viability of all the political groups here in this House, in your responsibility for pensioners, but also of those who work on pensions in the pay-back system, and to join our visions of a 1.9% increase, including the €40 one-time premium. Once honestly – specifically to the representatives of the FPÖ Group –: Just to get a little media presence, to bring in such an overwhelming desire for increase, and that, without knowing for yourself how you want to finance the financing costs of up to €1.5 billion and even more, according to the figures of the Federal Chancellor's Office, is unfortunately once again a political game on the back of the Austrian population. The guarantee of the sustainability of pension provision must be our all credo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6151	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is next spoken; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6172	High house! It was undisputed in today's discussion that since 2000, pensioners have been the stepchildren of this ÖVP-BZÖ government. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Sparbudget!]] The word “overgenuss” was invented at this time to suggest to the pensioners that they had been able to benefit too much from pension increases during the time when the Social Democrats were still in the Federal Government. And then, of course, the so-called pension adjustments have looked like this: regularly under the inflation rate, and that has been strongly criticized by us every time. It has therefore been very useful that Klubobmann Strache, together with the Freedom Party, initiated today that there is this special meeting. This gives the opportunity to discuss this important issue at the right time. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] It is simply a question of having a debate here in plenary and of having to hold a debate in the Committee on Budgets, where the proposals for initiative are all in their wide range and where we can debate all of that, which ultimately leads to a decision-making process, which, I hope, will result in that not the proposal of the Federal Government: 1.6% plus 40 € majority is capable, but that we try to negotiate there, that we have to focus on the 1.9 percent. I am therefore submitting the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Cap, Heidrun Silhavy, asking the Federal Government to create the conditions for an increase in pensions in 2007 following the price index for pensioners. Under the price index, we understand what pensioners' associations demand. The former National Council President Khol said this in an interview in the “ZiB 2”, Karl Blecha, the chairman of his pensioner organisation, also said this in public – and we also have this in the initiative proposal, which is finally to be dealt with in the Budget Committee and is the basis for a bill. We have also pointed out in our contacts with the other political groups that it would be good if all five parties had agreed that our pensioners would have an adjustment according to the pensioner price index they really deserve. And then it might be a good idea if all five parties could agree on it. The place for this is ultimately the Budget Committee, and there you should try to decide. In this context, we may still be able to say – I know, now that we have all tabled motions for resolutions together – that we should see these motions for resolutions as what they are, namely as a statement of opinion here in plenary. More decisive than the motions for resolutions are, in the end, the own-initiative proposals, where it really determines what is to be put into practice, and so the final effect should be the decision. I would just like to add that we are still – and we have always discussed this in discussions with all the political groups here in the House in advance of this meeting – with regard to the issue of distribution justice, compensation allowances, the poverty limit. These are all points which are of great importance to us and which we also want to bring into the discussion process in this context. I believe that a basic idea was very legitimate, which has today been raised by various speakers of the political groups represented in the House, including Mr Strache: You just have to imagine what this is like if you have to live from 750 or 800 € per month. This idea must be present if you discuss it. Many, indeed, all who sit inside here, should try to keep this in mind over and over again, so that you have a measure, if you really discuss it. And there are 10, 20, 30 €, however much, 100 €, 40 €, whatever it is, amounts that are of utmost importance to our pensioners. You always have to look at this from this perspective. That is what I wanted to say in this context. I hope that, when it comes to negotiating and discussing this in the parliamentary committee, we will also find a maximum and broad compromise on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6228	The motion for a resolution by Dr. Cap, Heidrun Silhavy and colleagues on pension increases following a pensionist price index is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6277	Mr Klubobmann was next spoken; Time left: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6298	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to hold: I'm quite surprised because: First of all, the ÖVP has beaten us today for finally ensuring the Pensionist Price Index. Now we are experiencing word-identical applications that are being submitted quickly, together with the Social Democrats. In a Husch-Puff action, on the one hand, the name of an ÖVP delegate and on the other hand the name of a SPÖ member is entered, and one now apparently tries to ensure here the grand coalitionary harmony somewhere. That's interesting for us. We have experienced today that we have come here with numbers that are completely lacking in any reality! – A pension increase instead of 1.9 percent by 2.6 percent means additional costs of € 170 million. These are the extra costs – no more and no less. But you're talking about 1 billion € here! The one-time payment: instead of 40 € 100 €. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is a bit more than €175 million in extra costs. But how do you get, please, 1 billion €? Where did you learn to count?- Oh, my God! That is not the extra cost; that is not what you have done here today on alleged calculations! Summa summarum is a total of €345 million in additional costs due to our demands – but in the sense of justice for pensioners. This would once be a fair “counter business” with the pensioners: to strengthen them so that the purchasing power and thus the economy is strengthened. This would finally be an comprehensible “counter business. ” For the Eurofighters, you always talk about counter-businesses, but obviously there is no such thing. For the fighter pilots, €2.5 billion were loosely removed from the taxpayer's pocket, but if, according to our FPÖ proposal, additional costs for a fair pension amounting to € 345 million in total, you claim that this is not financeable, just too irresponsible in relation to the government budget. If you have a sense of justice, you'll get the best in such an argument that you've given here today, almost the shoes off! I'll tell you: Disillusionment is here today, because social democracy too has missed the opportunity to make a pension increase in the sense of social justice possible today. There has even been a compromise proposal that has been negotiated, with even a request that would have allowed 80 percent of our Austrian pensioners to increase at least 2.2 percent. 2.2 percent as a compromise value. – Unfortunately, however, you have fallen by the SPÖ here. And it is now very obvious to you from the SPÖ that you are going down with the blacks in order not to have to implement anything in the sense of justice for the Austrian pensioners, but to ensure a great coalition. – That’s really disappointing! In the direction of Mr Scheibner: We want to give 2.6% to those you want to increase only 1.6%. This is the difference between your group and the FPÖ. And that is a good difference!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6350	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat because we have a number of votes to vote on. First of all, we are voting on Amendment No 19/A(E) tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, Mr Mag. Dr Graf, colleagues on pension increase. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in pensions and on the legal anchoring of a minimum adjustment of pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[OE Rufe on the grounds of the vote of the Greens.]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the increase in the compensatory allowance rate and on the family law rate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[Renewal oeuvre at the ÖVP due to the voting behaviour of the Greens.]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, fellow Members, on the increase in the guidelines for compensatory allowances on the poverty risk threshold. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[On the basis of the voting behaviour of the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to pay attention to the votes. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on single payment for pensioners for 2006. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ollinger, colleagues, on the increase in pensions for 2007. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Oeuvre of the ODP on the basis of the voting behaviour of the FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on the fair consideration of child rearing times – mother's pension. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the increase in pensions in relation to heavy workers' schemes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[OE Rufe on the grounds of the vote of the Greens.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues in the field of emergency care in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the freezing of political salaries. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of ÖVP) Oh!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Höllerer, colleagues and colleagues on the increase in pensions following a pensionist price index. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 2.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in pensions following a pensionist price index. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 3.) [[17:16:54]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00002_d7e6539	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 19/A to 35/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 63/J to 82/J has also been received. Ladies and gentlemen, we then have another meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5:17 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
