ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4381	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House. The Official Protocol of 138. Meeting of 13. ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, MEPs are reported Dobnigg, Gradwelt, Mag. Posch Silhavy, Vergestnich and Dr. Gabriela Moser. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4415	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallatwerd by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4442	We are now arriving at the current hour. Who will deliver the opinion for the government, Mr Clubobers? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs. Federal Minister is already here, but still outside!]] Then I interrupt the open meeting and wait until the member of the government arrives.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4475	I'll start the interrupted session again. We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Unfair pension scheme for heavy workers’ First of all, Mrs Csörgits has spoken. I'll give it to her. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4511	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A particular interest should not be shown by this Federal Government in this matter, since members of it are too late. But whoever comes too late punishes the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today's theme of the current hour is the unfair pension scheme for heavy workers. Again today it will become very clear that this Federal Government has no heart for employees in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the Social Insurance Amendment Act, which also contains the heavy-worker regulation, is a minority programme. Very many workers will have nothing of it – have nothing of it at all. This is not new in itself, however, because it is not the first time that this federal government has put in place measures that are directed against the interests of workers and that it makes promises that are not respected. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What's the AMAG?]] The Federal Chancellor, for example, noted before the 2002 elections that no further change in pensions is necessary to ensure that this century reform of the year 2000 will be fully sufficient. For a very long time, this century reform has not been kept, it must be said, especially considering that you again made massive pension cuts by the Federal Government and you as mandates of the ÖVP and the FPÖ with the pension scheme reform in 2003. I remind you of a few examples. Early pensions for long-term unemployment have been abolished. Early pensions due to long periods of insurance are phased out. With pension harmonisation, you have introduced a so-called pension corridor, but you have also decided – and that is also typical for you – that people who want to benefit from this corridor have to buy back discounts at the pension. It is very serious that women cannot benefit from this pension corridor by 2028. Once again, it must be said that the main sufferers of your pension reform are the women again. They also do not take into account the different employment biographies of the employees in Austria. They have decided to have insufficient child care bills. Yesterday, the Chamber of Labour has found that you have not only decided insufficient times, but also that interestingly these contribution times are not upgraded accordingly. The upgrading factor has not been taken into account by you at the beginning of the year. There is no appreciation, and that means that if this is not repaired, the working women in the retirement age will be extremely disadvantaged. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As part of the pension reform, you have promised that hard-working people will be able to retire earlier and will have fewer deposits. How does it actually look with this one your promise? There is nothing to be noticed about the two heavy-worker regulations decided by the government, and this draft law does not alter the real fundamental problem either. Few working people will benefit. The German Government's heavy-worker regulation is an absolute minority programme! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are we particularly criticizing about this draft law? – First of all: Women are still excluded from the heavy-worker regulation II. For women, therefore, only the more unfavourable heavy-worker regulation I, which comes with 1. ==References== In the years 2007 to July 2010, women are not at all covered by the heavy-worker scheme. From July 2010, however, women will only benefit to a very small extent, because they need at least 40 years of contribution, and of the last 20 years, at least ten years of hard work must be. What are the years of contribution? I would also like to remind you of that. – These are the periods of employment and child rearing due to insurance. - So far, so good. But periods of unemployment or periods of sickness benefit are not included. This means that you ignore the fact that, due to your non-social policy, people are getting longer and longer into unemployment, people have less and less full-time employment, and in particular women are affected. With these measures you continue the way that you drive women into poverty, that you do not create good pension schemes for women, and that is really very depressing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, it must also be said that the person who has to retire early on will not have any of these regulations, because you do not take that into account. Those who have to use a disability pension or an invalidity pension due to health problems have nothing to do with it. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, that you are discriminated against thousands of construction workers, because they can't go to the normal retirement pension anymore, they're just too sick. You don't take these people into account at all. It's social cold! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those people – and this is my third criticism – are also disadvantaged, who are doing hard work in young years. This includes, for example, a large number of women who take care of the care profession. They can exercise this profession at most in young years, but if they want to retire, they have absolutely nothing to do with this heavy-worker regulation. They discriminate against women again! Mr Dolinschek, I know very well, probably much better than you, because you should not know what you have put in your proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Secretary of State Dolinschek: You don't know each other!]] [[State Secretary Dolinschek: No! Not at all!]] To sum up, then, it should be said: 2 per cent of all new pension accesses will be covered by the law. It is therefore simply and decisively a minority programme. Now I'm coming to the heavy-worker's order. There, too, one can put it to the point: This regulation too is simply and decisively wrong! What do I mean by that? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't know that yourself!]] – It contains a very poor definition in relation to the difficult work in the care sector. They are linked to the cover of the care allowance. Once you talk about the care level 4, then again about the care level 5. Again, your Husch-Fusch-Manier shows up, and in principle it can be noted that the link to the care allowance is generally not useful, because care money is paid only there, as you, I hope, know where you need a big care need for at least six months. For people who are active in the field of accident surgery and need to care for patients there, it is simple and touching no matter how long these people are seriously ill; they do their best. But you do not rule out these! What is also very discriminatory and horrifying is that you also do not take into account tape work and chord work. All of this is work done mainly by women. The definition of night work is also very restrictive. I'll get it to the point: a chicken-sucking law! We say: Heavy working women must be involved. Work which is so dangerous to health that it is therefore necessary to go to the occupational disability pension or invalidity pension must be taken into account, and people who do serious work in the early years must also be taken into account. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It shows itself once again: You promised a lot and didn't keep anything! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] They drive the workers in the pension into the poverty trap. They go beyond a popular desire that has signed more than 600,000 people. They were not willing to respond to the SPÖ's proposals and to borrow from our model of fairness board. They discriminate against the construction workers. You hit thousands of cops in the head, and you discriminate against the women. It is time for you to go because the workers deserve something better than your social cold policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4656	Mrs Haubner referred to an introductory opinion. Your speaking time, Mrs Federal Minister, is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I apologise for coming two minutes too late. I had another conversation outside, but I was already present in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mrs Csörgits! Your remarks at the end of your speech have shown me that the election campaign seems to have been opened and that it is being carried here in plenary. [[Abg. Oillingers: You'll make advertising campaigns by €4 million!]] As a competent minister, I would like to comment on a regulation which was essential and necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: An insult!]] I would like to refer to a regulation that has been necessary for 30 years to ensure that pensions are made sustainable, in order to harmonise pension systems and, above all, to create a flexible transition to pension. 30 years, so for decades, nothing was done. We in this government have seen the problem. But we have not only recognized it, but also acted, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Government has acted to ensure the standard of living in old age for all people in Austria and, above all, to guarantee a pension for today's youth in the future. We have corrected what has been neglected in recent decades. And I would particularly like to address the self-sufficiency of women. We have introduced pensionable child rearing periods for the first time in the introduction of the child care allowance, and there are now four years per child instead of two years and five years for women in the case of multiple births. For the first time, we have more than doubled the contribution basis for calculating these retirement periods compared with 1999, i.e. at €1 350, and therefore I do not understand your criticism that this will not be raised, that this will not be valorised annually. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You need to know that this amount, if attributed to the pension account, is adjusted annually. These 1,350 € will be adjusted annually if they are on the pension account. That's why I don't understand the excitement. I remember that just €1 350 was a very important issue in the negotiations with the trade union and we agreed on it together. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, make You don't have what you negotiated with us at the time, now again bad, because it doesn't fit you for some reason! However, I would also like to point out that, given the reduction in the number of years of contribution during employment from 15 to seven years, we have taken a significant step towards the fact that women will also receive an independent pension in the future, because it is not clear that there are 150 000 over 60 years of age in Austria who do not have their own pension. This is not a failure of this government, it is a failure of the past! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic!]] We have also achieved significant improvements in pension periods for caregivers. We have – now I come to the subject – taken up as the first European country to talk about, which all other European countries are talking about. Especially in our ministry there are callers from other countries every day who want to know how we do what opportunities there are. And Austria is, whether you want it or not, another model. You're looking at us a little jealous now. I would not like to quote what a colleague of yours, a SPD Prime Minister of a German country, has said. He looks jealously at Austria, because there's something you can do here, which you don't have in Germany. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In Germany it is discussed by the SPD that people should be able to retire after 45 years of employment, but not at 60 years of age, as with us with the transitional scheme, but with 65 years of age, and even the retirement age is raised to 67 years. So let us leave the church in the village, and let us see that a little more realistic! We have taken another step with this heavy-worker regulation. The regulation is not yet in place, therefore I do not want to discuss the regulation, but only the draft law. The regulation has not yet been approved. We have created this heavy-worker scheme for people who, if they are doing particularly health-related activities, have a right to retire for this reason earlier. Because you have addressed the situation of women: I would like to say once again that we need to be clear that we are still one of the few countries that have a different age of retirement for women. We decided to do so at the time, and I believe that all the parties represented here in Parliament also stand to do so. But this regulation will end because it contradicts equal treatment, and therefore we can only make a new scheme a neutral one. I would also like to say the following: Women can be completed in Austria by 2024 with the completion of the 60. Year of life in retirement for only 15 years of contributions without deduction. Men can retire at least 60 years of age and 45 years of insurance, but with discounts. That is the fact that I am standing on, and that is still a legitimate favour for women, because in the past very little has been done for women. However, the regulation on heavy workers also regulates heavy work in principle. There is also a plan of improvement for women in relation to the kilocalories and calories due to a care activity. Many women are particularly active in the care sector, and this is why it is also intended to be included in the regulation. 80 percent of women work in the care sector. I really can't see any disadvantage for women, especially in the case of the heavy-worker regulation. Mrs Csörgits said that the draft law was a minority programme. – I think we have been very sustainable and very serious about it. I can remember that it has also said from your side that the original proposal is not feasible that it is unfair and so on. We have worked together with the experts, including the experts of the Pension Insurance Institute, and have drawn up a joint proposal for a heavy-worker arrangement close to the foundation day. This joint proposal, which I would like to say here, has also been supported by a representative of SPÖ in the PVA. He said that this scheme was positive and that it could be implemented. And I can say: We will do everything we can to ensure that this is implemented constructively. – I also have it in writing; if you want, I will show it to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a solution, especially for later years of heavy work, which is particularly stressful, and within the last 20 years these ten years are taken into account accordingly. I do not want to be always mixed with disability pension and heavy work regulations. Invalidity pension, access to the occupational incapacity pension, this is something other than a heavy work regulations, because there are people already sick, since they must continue to have the opportunity to retire in the event of illness and in the event of impairment. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we will, and I am particularly in favour of this as a Minister of Social Affairs, introduce a regulation, a regulation that is sound, socially just and truly difficult to deal with during her professional life. This government and I will continue to set the course with great social responsibility so that the people in Austria can do well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4781	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4824	My dear colleagues! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Dear colleagues! I think, Mr Renate Csörgits, that the issue of hard work, in aware that even social partners, ÖGB, Chamber, employers have been working for months in a working group with the Federal Minister for Women, has been a little more serious in the consideration deserved it when you showed it here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the months of negotiations, we have also become clear – in addition to the preparation of the contents – that the definition of heavy work from the field of labor science does not produce anything at all and that we need to define the professional and the results of the occupational medicine, which does not in itself facilitate the topic, because we enter the new country. Secondly, It would have been preferable for me to have distinguished and, above all, found fair descriptions for all occupations that are particularly straining. They don't exist! There is no even – and that was also debate with the Federal Minister – the death tables of the insurance industry are something about careers. We have therefore kept very well to the experiences of the night shift heavy work law that exists, and have taken the question of irregular night work, the influence of heat and cold, chemical, physical influences, care of the sick, palliative medicine and others more than examples and thus built up this construction. Thirdly, What would it be like to offer people a heavy work regulation by law and related regulations if it were not enforceable? The colleagues of the Pension Insurance Institute have clearly demonstrated that only in the mid-70s the computer-assisted support for professional procedures is available, and it is unthinkable that one does not want to risk a flood of court proceedings to judge periods of time just before that. These are the framework conditions, and we have therefore established a uniform system for all professional groups. I am expressly opposed to the accusation that women are disadvantaged. If I were to apply your form of argumentation, I would have to say that by the mid-19th century we had bettered women in working life as far as entry to the pension was concerned. You were against it! We have ensured this for women up to the mid-19th century. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now, of course, the regulations which are just ahead of their printing result in a uniform system for all workers. And we don't leave the executive in the rain either. In this context, there was only the debate: Where do we anchor this right? – Of course in a regulation because it is an Annex matter to a pension law! And there will also be the executive bodies to which we, as legislators, are mandated to seek danger, to remain in danger and to eliminate this danger – this is also true of those professional military persons whom, when we send them abroad, we also expect to face the danger – of course, they will be included in the regulation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You know as well as I do, Renate, that in social policy nothing is emphasized or ground in stone. [[in the direction of the Abg. Csörgits]] Social policy is moving! That is why we have insisted – and I thank you for the fact that the Federal Government and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs have taken this up – to set up a Commission, according to § 8 of the Federal Ministry's Act, which, because regulations on heavy work will enter into Neuland, will observe the further development of this special scheme in the care of old people and refer to the factor of heavy work. And we're going to evaluate this all the time. The fact that this regulation cannot be so bad clearly makes a statement by Mr Müntefering in Germany – where a rescue action under Hartz IV has been fully opposed to the wall and now in a wider political context. Composition must try to repair something – and that is: By 67 years we will all have to work, and a heavy work scheme will not at all come into question! – He had to correct that quickly, the coalition called him to order. And they, DGB and other friendly trade unions, have already asked us what this Austrian heavy-work scheme looks like. That's why she can't be that bad. I note that the SPÖ colleagues obviously made an early start in the election campaign. Whether the air goes out of you or not, I do not have to judge it, but it will ultimately judge the voters. Ladies and gentlemen! They have obviously taken the form of a premise: We are against it! – On the other hand, we are in favour of making a positive contribution to people!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4923	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e4960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Neugebauer, there will still be talk about seriality and pact fidelity on this issue today. Mrs Csörgits has already suggested: The heavy-worker regulation you have developed is a farce, and the longer you think about it, the more it becomes clear to you that the word Farce is actually a depressing expression for it! [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't have to think so long!]] It is not fully expressed in what your government practises and what is hiding behind it, what disrespectless and unworthy dealing with hard-working people in Austria is practiced by your government. You have to break this on your tongue once: People who have been working hard and hard for decades are being appalled by this government! [[Abg. Großruck: You do not know what is hard and hard to work!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Have you ever worked manually? You don't know what that is!]] In your draft, in your regulations, your laws clearly contain the fact that people who put their health at risk in their work over longer periods of time and are therefore also physically exploited more than the average worker or average worker, have to expect pension deposits in unexpected height on the basis of the policies of this black and blue-orange government. There you can only say: That is, so to speak, a “reward ” for these people! Thank you, Wolfgang Schüssel! Thank you, black and blue government in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Haubner, you asked yourself here and said that it was about ensuring the standard of living of pensioners in Austria. – Do you know how pensioners in Austria estimate their personal situation? – 74 percent, three out of four pensioners say that their standard of living has deteriorated over the last six years. – This is what their pension policy, their standard of living policy actually looks like! But this fits into the overall picture of this government: The problems, concerns, life plans of the average Austrians and middle Austrians are you, salopp said, Wurst, yes you don't even know them! The testimony to your government policy – and this is the most noble thing you can say about it – is: Social cold has come in Austria, not only in winter, but over the entire period of your government policy over the last six years! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And the second thing that is particularly annoying to me is the fact that we are discussing the heavy-worker regulation, which is obviously in your political style, is the fact that Pact fidelity, Mr. Neugebauer, reliableness and handshake quality have obviously become political foreign words in this government. And this has become particularly visible in a special case in the heavy-worker regulation, namely in dealing with the executive. There is a State Secretary here on the government bank who said: [[towards Secretary of State Dr. Finz]] Let the barricades climb, the executive!, so to speak, a hidden call to strike. – This is a truly “sensitive and serious” way of dealing with legitimate demands of the executive in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. School: Reading is one thing, understanding the other!]] You have to imagine that! There are twenty thousand officials in Austria who serve around the clock, who – I don't want to put it out of place, but it is often so – are putting their lives at risk there and there and are treated by this government in such a way. Pact fidelity is a foreign word for you. The Executive shall sit in the person of the Minister of the Interior and its officials in the organisation – your organisation, Mr. Neugebauer, in the Public Service Trade Union – and in the Executive Union in a body where the heavy-worker regulations for executive officials are to be negotiated. [[Abg. Schöls: Your youth organization is talking about bulls!]] And what happens? – Your government says: I don't even care! Pact fidelity is not at the executive! Let them climb to the barricades! This is a policy that we strictly reject! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schöls: Your youth organization says bulls!]] And you were written in the main book, Mr. Col.: They have been promising the executives since 2004 to take up a heavy-worker arrangement. To this day, nothing has happened! And nothing will happen in the near future. Haider has promised, Strasser has promised, Prokop has promised – but no one holds the promises! The same applies to the executive service law, in which promises have also been made by your side towards heavy workers' regulations, but which are not complied with, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Murauer: Promise – keyword “AMAG”!]] It is about treating heavy workers the way they deserve it, namely, not having to take discounts when they retire. Read the SPÖ's Fairness Pension Model, where it is fairly regulated: no fees for heavy workers. That's the best rule! You can say here what You want – you have betrayed the heavy workers in general and the executive officials in particular in matters of heavy work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5110	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5131	Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition! If I did not know you and your helpless opposition policy for years, I would assume that you did not look at or at least understand this heavy-worker regulation. Since Mr Darabos here says that the heavy workers are being “socked off”, the pensions are disastrous and similar, I would like to present you with the following: In relation to the time when socialist social ministers took responsibility here, from 2000 to 2004 all "male" pensions rose by 8 percent and all "female" pensions increased by 21 percent. That is what it looks like, Mr Darabos, and there is therefore no reason at all to blame the government on this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – Mr Parnigoni, I will send this to you. Look If you do this, you'll be quiet for a while. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Social Affairs has already said that from across Europe social politicians come and see what we have done with the heavy-worker regulation. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] In fact, one would also like to introduce a heavy worker scheme in the Federal Republic of Germany, but no solution has been reached so far. And you know, all countries outside Austria are increasing their retirement age to 67 years, and of course they have problems with how to take into account particularly hazardous activities that are particularly harmful to health. We have now found a solution, and you come to us and want to take over that from us. So there is no reason at all to make things worse without interruption. Another thing: Stop this accusation that the government has no heart for pensioners, no heart for heavy workers! The problem of heavy workers has been in place for decades, but the governments of socialist social ministers have not at all taken action against the heavy-worker regime! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Parnigoni and Mr Bures.]] You've cheated on it because you knew that's a difficult matter. That's what we're admitting! There was no solution in your time. [[Abg. Neudeck: Socialist Social Policy – this is a contradiction in itself!]] [[Abg. Bures: You caused the problem!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are getting so excited just to reject all the accusations of yourself! As you say from the SPÖ that the women are the disadvantaged: No government has done as much for women as this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] For the first time, child rearing periods are counted for the pension, to a very large extent. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank you, Mrs. Haubner!]] Women; members of the family can acquire their own pension entitlement. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister!]] The pension requirements have been improved in order to mention only some of these points. There is a higher basis of assessment. In the past it was the compensation allowance, now it is about €1 300 as a basis of assessment. So really stop yelling and saying that women are disadvantaged! As much as now has never been done! There's nothing to blame for. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They also know very well that we are obliged by the EU to equal the retirement age of women and men. We are obliged to do so, and there is nothing to do with it. By the year 2024, women with 55 years of age can retire, until 2007 without any discounts. Well, please, recognize that! As far as the executive is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it has always been our group's concern to do something to take account of this particular danger, this particular difficulty of professional training into account among executives in pension law. The Federal Chancellor will develop measures for the executive, and I am convinced that the shift work, night work and danger will be estimated and will bring benefits to the executive officials. We owe it to the executive officials that we take action, because these officials are doing a very difficult service at all in the present time. Crime is very high – I'm done immediately! – the perpetrators are becoming threefold, and it is a great obligation for us to do something for the executives. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5278	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5299	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Good morning? It's half eleven!]] Mrs Bundesminister, Mr Neugebauer, I think it is already a strong piece that you blame the opposition, with this topic she is campaigning for election – and that in view of the fact that you are acting on any inappropriate occasion with ads, with false ads or folders, for example the Federal Minister with the pension folder. Mrs. Federal Minister, there was not only a mistake in it, but it was a cause for error, but They have not failed to approach the pensioners quickly in the election year and to inform them incorrectly. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You even had to send a second card where you at least corrected an error. And that's where you accuse the opposition, they are campaigning for election?! – Mrs Federal Minister, reality looks quite different. The reality looks so that parts of the ÖVP also criticise the heavy-worker scheme: It is criticized by the economy, by the union, by the chambers. And you're saying the opposition is against the heavy-worker regulation?- Oh, my God! You don't believe that! You know better. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: You're just kidding!]] You're pretending you're really in a good position here, and you're blaming yourself with the statement: From all European countries, the Ministry of Social Affairs is called! – Obviously never been called before. But hopefully in the other countries, the mistakes you make are becoming smarter; I really hope so. I say this to you because this is still too little known: What does the scheme provide for? – It foresees that you are at least 60 years old, but only when you have brought 45 years of insurance and in the last 20 years before the 60 years. 10 years of life has done serious work, with deductions in retirement can go – with cancellations you can retire! Do you know what that means in practice, Mrs. Federal Minister? [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Dolinschek.]] Mr State Secretary, you know better! That is, the so-called hackler rule for the next few years – you call this scheme so – is still better than the heavy-worker regulation. There's smaller bills. Heavy workers have to expect higher deposits in the next few years if they want to retire under the heavy-worker regulations than those who have long periods of insurance. That's how reality looks! No improvement for the heavy workers! - That was point one. [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Dolinschek.]] – Mr State Secretary, you can talk anyway, but please don’t talk to me! Second point: If someone at the age of 15 – and there are people who are doing this, for example, on construction – starts working until 49 years of hard work and then no longer has a chance of using the heavy-worker scheme. Imagine: 34 years of hard work – and you then explain to the person concerned: No, it's not the heavy-worker's rule! – That’s absurd, that’s grotesque, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] 34 years of hard work, from 15 years to 49 years of age – count on it! And because the person concerned in the last 20 years before the 60. If he has to stop working at 49 years of age because he is no longer able, he is not covered by this scheme. – This is quite a realistic burden for people who are doing hard work, ladies and gentlemen! Next point: women. You can always argue, ladies and gentlemen, but there are no women – you know that from the debate we have held in the past – who bring together 40 years of contributions or 45 years of insurance! They don't exist! For so many years they do not create anywhere, especially in the field of heavy work, in the care – how is that supposed to happen? They don't have a chance! That is, this regulation – I am really sorry! – is unusable to those who actually do heavy work in this country! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: In Germany, there is an immeasurably grotesque debate about the rise of the retirement age to 67 years. You can put it up to 120 years, but the people are still broken at 65 or pension mature. This will not change reality. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] But there is a discussion about the need for a regulation that takes into account that there are different CVs, that there are people who do not grow 80, 90 years old, but only 65 or 70 years of age, because they have worked so hard. To this question, however, you do not answer this problem. And that's why your regulation is absolutely absurd and grotesque! You should withdraw them immediately and make something really reasonable with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5395	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5417	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I do not want to go into the inaccurate statements made by Mr Darabos, but one thing is clear: [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Parent]] It is apparently not well-informed when it comes to the concerns regarding heavy-worker regulations for executives. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... very well informed, better than you!]] One thing I have to say clearly from this point of view: In my work as a staff representative in the early 1990s, there has already been the idea that executive officials should be included in the heavy-worker scheme. To a greater extent, demands came in 1997 when the first pension reform took place. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Has prevented the ÖVP!]] At this time there was a red Minister of the Interior, a red Minister of the Social Affairs, a red Minister of Finance and a red Chancellor – and nothing has happened, not even discussions have existed at this level! [[Abg. Parnigoni: And the ÖVP has prevented it!]] – That's how reality looks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From this point of view, I would like to say a warm thank you to the current Federal Government. She doesn't leave people in the rain! [[Abg. Parnigoni: They're all wet!]] In the next few days and weeks, the heavy-worker scheme will come for executives, in a form which, as I believe, will also find broad agreement on the part of the trade union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] What is fact, dear colleague Darabos? – The fact is that in the Council of Ministers, on 16 November, the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the European Union of Ministers of the United Nations held its first meeting on 16 December. The conditions for access to the heavy-work pension scheme were adopted unanimously on February. For the calculation of the heavy work pension, those heavy work months which have been completed within the last 20 years prior to retirement have to be taken into account; in total, ten years of heavy work have to be done. It is in no way 45 years old, as this is repeatedly referred to at this point, the speech, but of the 60. Age and 42 years of age. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] Mr Darabos, I have already explained to you in the committee that you should question things that are in the paper. Don't put up with anything that's not proven to be! I would like to say this clearly from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Police, who may be following this debate in front of the TV! During these hours, intensive negotiations are under way to see how the details for our executive officials in this regulation are to be looked out. One thing is certain: Those police officers who perform the difficult foreign service and those who direct this foreign service will be taken into account in this Regulation. The gravity of the work of executive officials will also be recognized in pension law. These are facts, whether it's a fit or not. I understand that there has been some unrest in the SPÖ and the FSG over the last few weeks, as they can no longer argue in the personnel representation campaign. There is no longer any argument to choose FSG, I would also like to express it clearly from this point of view. [[Abg. Riepl: There's no one in there.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Parnigoni, I must also say: Remember what frontal opposition has been here in the area of internal security over the last six years! I would just like to point out that you were opposed in December 2003 when it came to making €35 million more available for the executive, plus 150 officials. The SPÖ voted against! In 2005 they did not decide on the budget when 2 billion schilling, converted into 163 million €, were made available more in the budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] – Also against it! That's pure frontal opposition, that's pure election fight! It must not work in this country, because that would not be good for you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It doesn't work either!]] That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5573	President. — The debate is closed. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5594	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All parties are talking about doing something for hard-working people – but the Federal Government is acting! I think we are extremely good at our regulations for those people who have worked hard in life, namely to create an opportunity to retire at lower rates than usual earlier. For people who have worked hard and with the 60. Your age in retirement is up to 9 percent. That's by 6 percent less than usual. It has always been there, at any time, but that you are completely aware of the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni! We know that we are right in this question. This is proved by the questions from the Federal Republic of Germany. Mr Beck from Rhineland-Palatinate is very interested in how to deal with the question of pension, which people have the opportunity to retire earlier and with lower deductions. We have obviously closed a “market gap” here. This federal government has considered the possibilities for people who have worked hard to retire earlier. In this discussion apples are very, very often mixed with pears. It's a big difference whether it's about the "hackler rule", it's about contribution times – contribution times only acquire someone when he's working fully – or about the heavy work scheme. [[Abg. Oils: insurance times!]] It is also a matter of buying times for people who are unemployed, as insurance times are measured here. For those people who have worked hard, for example, on construction, it is important that these times are also counted so that they can reach the required time earlier and go into retirement. It is about activities and not about professions! Otherwise, it would soon be the same as in the past with the railways, where, at once, there would have been rules for those who worked in the shift or in the upper construction, even for the head of the passenger service and the Director-General. This is not what we want here, but it should apply to those who do not have it so easy in life, whether in the federal service or in the private sector. This is what we have achieved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If comparisons are drawn and carried via the media, that one could also regulate this via disability pension, I must say: A disability pension can also be given to someone who has not worked hard. There are just differences. That's what you should consider here. As far as women are concerned, I have to tell you the following: We are going here on a path where women also have the opportunity to fall under the heavy-work scheme. But as long as we have the possibility that in many other countries there is no way that women can retire five years earlier than men – we have that until 2023 – you have to see it differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] Mr Oellinger, as the social spokesperson of the Greens, you should actually know that the European Court of Justice has abolished this regulation and we have a transitional arrangement by 2023, and so long women can retire five years earlier. The age is set accordingly at 60 years. The retirement age then grows pretty slowly. The women are equally taken into account here. For women, even fewer kilokalories were established than for men, namely, 1 400 and not 2 000. This is due to the numbers of AUVA, which have been around for years, but which are always adjusted. In any case, we have recognized the problems, we have recognized where to act. We have acted – this federal government is at the pulse of time!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5659	Mr Riepl is now speaking. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5680	High house! Mrs Federal Minister, you have quoted a paper from the Pension Insurance Institute and told us that the chairman of the Pension Insurance Institute has agreed to your scheme. - That's not true. It's true that there's no letter. You should put this right. You also said, Mrs Haubner, that the Social Democrats had not done anything in our country for 30 years. I think we Social Democrats have built up the social state, our social state, at a high level, and since you are in the government, there is less social state! I think it is also clear to people that there are differences in policy here: They have made reforms, the result of which is that people can retire later and with less money. This is what people will remember and remember when it comes next time to voting on what policy is the right one. Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, said in September 2004: We want to make nails with heads! – And what do we have now? – We have a law without heads, a bad solution, I mean, an unjust solution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] You have to be 60 years old, have 45 years of insurance and have done 10 years of hard work in the last 20 years, and then you get a 9 percent discount as a “reward” when you retire as a heavy worker. I think that is an important question and that people can also assess whether this is a just solution. Whoever, according to your proposal, does 30 years in young years, 31 years of hard work, but in the last 20 years no longer comes to 10 years of hard work, gets nothing. - It can't be that way. That is why we will certainly not agree to Social Democrats of the Government's proposal when it comes to the current form. You should have heard more about our colleagues Dietmar Keck, who had been a heavy worker for 20 years, sitting here in Parliament in the ranks of the Socialist Members, and who, on many occasions in the committee, but also here from the speaker's desk, has often pointed out what is right, what would be social and fair. What do we want from Social Democrats? – We want you to get healthy in the pension. We want you to get out of work and not out of unemployment. And we want you to get to the pension after 45 years. All of this has not been fulfilled by this government and these proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to do with people who work in the pipeline construction, in the electrical supply companies working in civil engineering, civil engineering, tunnel construction, which – Mrs. Col. Csörgits has already said – are chord workers who work in the steel industry, in the chemical industry, so activities that many of us would never do, because it is too dangerous, too difficult for them. And all of them, they said, You're going to get a heavy workman's arrangement now! – But in reality they will all get nothing, because they will not be able to meet the conditions. Who, apart from the government parties – another argument – is actually praising this proposal for a law, Mrs Sozialminister? Who actually praises him except yourself? - No one! [[State Secretary Dolinschek: The Heavy Workers!]] Constitutional experts have told us that's not how it works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] The Chamber of Labour has said that's not how it works. Trade unions have said that's not how it works. The Chamber of Commerce has said that's not how it works. Mr Mitterlehner has said that is not how it works. His President, Leitl, has said that's not how it works. Women's organisations have said that's not how it works. The Christian trade union groups who are or have not yet been affected have said that it is not possible. The Austrian Freedom Party has also said that it is not possible. Only the liberal parliament club and the Austrian People's Party say – but these are the only ones – that this is how it should be done. I think there's also an argument that should stimulate thought and bring you back to the start. Hundreds of thousands of people who work hard daily promise for months: We bring you an improvement!, and then almost no one is affected by it, ladies and gentlemen, who are bordering, forgive me, already with indifference. This is just not the way to deal with people who have worked under severe health problems for years and decades! We shouldn't be dealing with these people like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The proof of this...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5736	The final sentence, Mr Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5754	The proof of this can be found in the explanations. The new regulation – and I am done there – is therefore cost-neutral compared to the existing legal situation. – This proves that this reform is an empty reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5781	Mrs Haubner recently spoke. Five minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5803	Mr President. First of all, something about what Mr Riepl said. We are making a heavy-worker arrangement, not for institutions and organisations, but for the people of Austria, and the feedback I get here is very positive. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm not going to let myself be told here that I'm claiming something that's not right. There's this letter, and I can read it now: "Dear Mrs. Federal Minister! The pension insurance institution is in favour of the present draft for the implementation of a heavy-worker scheme in so far as: By taking account of day-to-day heavy work, the proposed scheme is targeted at the target group level; it opens up those insured persons without a favourable pension scheme, in particular in the second subparagraph. half of their working lives are carried out with a particularly stressful job; an adequate enforcement of the scheme seems feasible to the legal claims, since the surveys to be carried out also cover periods of time close to the date of the day. In this sense, the pension insurance institution will make a constructive contribution to the assessment procedure in order to allow an appropriate solution to this much-discussed problem. With excellent regard Obmann Director-General’
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5865	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand from the opposition that you're upset. – Nothing invented, not to say so. Although the trade union and the social partners have agreed, in part our proposals have also been approved, when it was so far, before completion, they have been made by their chief chief Dr. Gusenbauer the Get command: Back! Back! Be careful, otherwise we can't sell it! Your colleague, Csörgits, you criticize the heavy worker law and believe it's a farce. – This is another additional law which allows workers who work under the appropriate difficult loads to retire earlier. Mr Csörgits, I would just like to clarify: Do you know how many laws there are in Austria, after which you can retire earlier? – Women can reach the age of 60 by 2024. Go to retirement for a lifetime, according to the law on night workers and heavy work under special conditions with 57. Year of life. After the “hackler rule” – this applies until 2010 – men with 60 and women with 55 can retire, and zero discount – zero discount by 2007! [[Abg. Oillinger: With a lower discount!]] This has never happened in the history of the Second Republic! Then the heavy-worker regulation, which is under discussion today: again with the 60. Year of life at 45 years of insurance. First, the opposition criticism was that the hackers were better off than the heavy workers. - Be careful! Read – think – talk! The “Hackler regulation” requires 45 years of contributions, 45 years of insurance for heavy workers, and there are built-in: unemployment periods, emergency support and also sick leave. There is another scheme: With 62 in the corridor. And I can only say: We have invented the heavy-worker scheme – Mr President, she has invented it, Mr Haubner has realized it – and I think that is a really good arrangement. And if your colleagues from the Federal Republic of Germany are interested: Please, get out of here! Let's make it clear! – They will teach you there, and if you want, I will also give you a shot. Read this regulation, then consider it, and then you will agree! – You may not, however, because for good things you have nothing left in Austria. Those who make shift and change work, who are exposed to special heat and cold, chemical and physical influences, heavy physical work, 2,000 calories for men, 1 400 calories for women. – I always hear rules for women are not built in. Please, read it! To the address of the Voest: Mr. Keck, we have also done something for your employees, which you do not bring together: Those who do not bring together the years according to the night shift heavy work law also fall into this scheme! – Normally you have to go out and say: Thanks to this Federal Government, thanks for what you have created here, that is really a positive thing! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I'm 60 years old. Life with 1.8 percent discount can go into retirement, then this, as I mean, is really something good. If you really look at the heavy worker regulation, read it exactly! That's a positive thing! And don't do anything bad, because no one believes you anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5939	This debate is closed by Mrs Magistrate. Weinzinger. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e5962	Mr President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! After this debate, three things can be clearly summarized from this government template: First: One recognizes the intention and is voting – for the intention is quite obvious to those: Few people may be covered by this heavy-worker regulation, as much as possible, even less than the BZÖ has voters. There's probably still about ten people left. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One also recognizes the intention number two, if one listens to the intermediate sounds – and there one can only become brightly heard, this government, which I really do not hope, should continue to work in any form after the election day –: The 67 years of retirement age are mentioned in conspicuously and conspicuously. So what happens to Austria after the election day, if this ÖVP remains in the government, can already be said today: Pension age 67 – that's your goal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: We are not in Germany!]] Yeah, we know all the announcements. Certainly no tuition fees – isn't it, Mrs Gehrer? – When we become third parties, we go into opposition, Federal Chancellor Schüssel. And so on. It is always what you claim that certainly does not come, the very first thing you do after the election day, and before that you can only warn the Austrians. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third thing you can see very clearly: Except for hot air, there's not much there. Except for brochures sent out by the Minister of Social Affairs – with misinformation – except for the speeches she gives here in reality, one must already say that almost a propaganda-limited rhetoric, is nothing there! If someone's serious about this, he says, No government has done as much for the women as this!, then I mean, that's a late carnival joke, but the carnival is over! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Just to remember: This government has, first of all, abolished a women's ministry, because we do not need this, and instead we have to set up a men's department, because it is urgently needed, a pension reform has decided that women in the pension are even more affected by poverty, get even less pension, because they suddenly need 40 years instead of the best 15, and with a child care allowance has created a model that pushes women out of working life and increases the poverty of women – and so on. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the meantime!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If I listen to you like this, I'm almost sure!]] – And that is what you call “a lot done for women ”? – Thank you very much, we really don’t need that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the heavy-worker regulation... – Yes, the excitement only proves that it must be quite clearly right! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And it would be good if you also discussed this, even if at least the Secretary of State did not do so before the debate. [[Abg. Neudeck: We are dealing more with the matter than you are!]] For the heavy-worker regulation now a few specific details, which are also noticeable: Some speakers – I think it was only speakers – have been worried about how the executive regime will fail. As the regulation on the care sector, where women will be affected in the first place, I have not heard anyone worry about it. Let me tell you how a woman is supposed to be working in the nursing sector – starting with 20, 21 – who has a few years of professional interruption due to a child's break to have 45 years of insurance at the age of 60 in order to fall into your heavy work regulations. – Of course you don’t have anything for the women! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] The only thing you do is go here and say: The women are so privileged anyway because they are allowed to retire at 60! – After that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A last detail where you can see the seriosity of your work: In addition to the definition we already know – heat, cold, chemical, physical effects, that is, classic things tailored to men's occupations – all seriously suggest calorie counting, as if you did not know that a person with 50 kilos and a person with 100 kilos consume a very different number of calories in exactly the same nuisance activity. – This is a white displeasure that you propose here! It is therefore only possible to say: Back to the start with this completely unhappy heavy-worker regulation! Put in place a regulation that, in fact, aims to ensure that people who work hard and hard in their lives who have suffered from health damage can take their pension in such a way that they still enjoy it in some way.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6087	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6105	In order to be able to negotiate points 6 to 9 and 11 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 6 to 9 and 11 are: the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1229 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Pass Act and the Fees Act (1340 of Supplements), Furthermore, the report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Reporting Act (1341 of the Supplements), Also the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1272 of the Supplements): Treaty with the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second addition to the European Convention of 20. 1339 of the Supplements), the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1194 of the Supplements): Treaty with the Czech Republic on the crossing of the border on tourist routes and on border crossing in particular cases (1338 of the supplements) as well as the report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Act and the Federal Finance Act 2006 and the Civil Service Act 2006 (1343 of the Supplements). I have one vote on it, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the removal from the time-limit in respect of these items. – This is accepted with the necessary quota and quota, with the required two-thirds majority. With regard to the report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the opposition of the Bundesrat (1286 of the Supplements) to the Law of the National Council of 6 June 1986, the Council of Ministers of the European Communities adopted a resolution on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. December 2005 concerning a federal law amending the citizenship law and other laws (State Citizenship Law Novelle 2005) (1342 of the Supplements), I would like to point out that a deadline for the Internal Committee should be set by 24. This item was on the agenda on February 2006 and is therefore on the agenda. [[11:13:47]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6160	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6485	Before entering the agenda, I will also announce: MEPs Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues have asked for urgent consideration of the written question 4019/J by Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture concerning “Elite University Maria Gugging: a Scherbenhaufen”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6509	Similarly, before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the honourable Member, Mr Ing. Kaipel has requested to report to the Financial Committee on Amendment 464/A by Mr Ing. Kaipel, colleagues in a federal law which amends the federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability, a period of up to 28. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will follow. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6537	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 5, 6 to 9, 12 and 13, 15 to 17 and 19 to 22 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. That is what we have decided on the agenda and go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6561	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall now proceed to the vote. If you agree to this proposal, I ask for a sign. The House unanimously endorses the proposal. We'll do that. [[11:16:43]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment No 752/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Mag. Dr. Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on a federal law amending the University Law 2002 (1308 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the proposal from Mr Gertrude Brinek, Mr Mag. Dr. Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Higher Education Law, the MTD Act and the midwives Act (1309 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6633	We shall now proceed to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Broukal was the first speaker to speak. His welcome time is 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6664	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. Federal Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grossruck: But we got up earlier, Mr. Broukal!]] Big truck, if you knew how early I got up, you wouldn't say that. Sleepless nights are ready for me to know that I will be exposed to your calls again today. This is a fate which will not be paid enough for the salary, I tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today, after a three-quarters of a year, we are talking about a repair attempt, a response to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which brought difficulties for Austria's students in accessing universities for its young generation. The solution to some of the studies, i.e. medicine, is in principle what we Social Democrats have called for since the judgment was made known. We've had a lot of months of blaming for it, either way: Anti-Europeans, non-identifiers, people unable to see the signs of time. We also have to explain that it would not be possible to provide for a preference for Austrian students by law. But see, since mid February everything is different – of course it goes. And it would have been a three-quarters of a year before, if only you would have wanted it. But to the memory, and you know that as well as I do: Since the final presentation of the European Advocate-General in January 2005, I have been constantly asking for dates, talks, a joint speech on what we could do. I have been decided for months that there is no need to do so, because the judgment will anyway be so loud that everything can remain as it should be. I then had an appointment in mid-June, I think, together with Mrs. Dr. Brinek, Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann and Mr. Dr. Grünewald, I would like to make proposals to rector head of Badelt and then make proposals to Mrs. Dr. Brinek, how one could come to a common four-party agreement as a legal reaction to the unacceptable ECJ judgment to be expected for us. This if you want to talk from the 21st century. ==References== July with an invitation at 6 p.m. in a back room of the FPÖ Club, where I had the opportunity to answer what I had to say to Mrs. Dr. Brinek had already said three weeks earlier that he was presenting a number of officials again. Then we've been negotiating for two days. The agreement has failed that the government parties were not willing to agree that in the event that it is clear that many foreign students, especially German students in Austria, actually want to study, there is a rapid increase in the number of places to study. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Such an agreement was not limited to the ÖVP and the BZÖ, which is why a majority decision has been taken on the content that the universities have the right in eight studies to impose restrictions on access, whatever they have used. When that happened, there was a phase that lasted until about mid-August, in which it was always said: What happened? Or, as Mrs. Dr. Brinek once wrote in the “standard”: There are no extra sausages for Austria in Europe. Welcome to European normality. – This was the European normality that consisted in the fact that thousands of German students enrolled in Austrian universities and took away Austrian Maturants and Maturants. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You've always said there's no coming anyway!]] I rarely said, I think, that no foreign students would come. There is a minor error in the ÖVP archive. ==References====External links== July 2005, i.e. two days before the ECJ judgment, it did not threaten the fall of the evening country, the universities would certainly not be flooded by German students. – A prophecy with a very short half-life, as we know today. Throughout the summer, the official regulation was applied to those who want a preference for Austrian, for domestic students, being anti-European, do not understand the signs of the time. Welcome to the European Higher Education Area! No more favoring Austrian maturants! The ECJ judgment makes a clear statement in this regard. – As seen in a letter by Dr. Brinek in the summer in the “Standard”. In August, something must have happened, because suddenly, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the President of the National Council said that this ECJ judgment would restore a little more than European normality, i.e. the most abnormal condition for Austrian citizens to be unable to take up their choice at universities because these places of study are occupied by foreign students. President Khol – Mr President, I quote with your permission – said that “our students are being pushed out” and that cannot be the case. – 5. ==References== In September, the Federal Minister Gehrer promised to hold first talks on this matter. And because I couldn't believe that this is really the case, I asked her the questions in parliamentary questions: When have you discussed this problem with whom, first in the EU, second in the Federal Republic of Germany? What have you done to prevent what you can do? The answer of the Federal Minister was: I have not had a single discussion, neither with the EU nor with the German Minister for Education. Education is a national matter. In September, the Federal Minister then changed her position, started talks, and it turns out that things are now going to be the way they go. In the field of medicine, there is the preference for Austrian students, for whom we have fought for a three-quarters of a year. Unfortunately, there are still restrictions on access: At the end of the first year of study, some 200 young people are dismissed from the universities, no matter how well they complete the exams, because from the third semester there are only more places available. It is precisely this not to remove this restriction of access in the other areas that is the reason why we will not agree to this change of law. We ask you to return to the status quo ante in the subjects outside of medicine – if the universities have more than a few hundred students, then it is about quite small amounts in the area of tenths of the university total budget – that you can have these few additional students at an Austrian university study what they actually want to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6749	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6771	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated preliminary speakers, Mr Broukal! I would also like to use this opportunity to remind you of a zigzag course which has now been presented as a straight line. Before the judgment of the European Court of Justice came in July 2005, it was not possible to know what was happening. It could be expected that the existing scheme will not be maintained. In a conference with the rectors' conference in April, you have asked to intervene that it would be the way Austria wishes. [[towards SPÖ]] – I consider this to be a problematic path, both theoretically and legally. What Austria, this Federal Minister and the universities have done, is to prepare for an arbitrary judgment, which then came as it came. The University of Graz has begun to prepare virtual scripts in order to provide students who come from abroad in Germany with the opportunity to face up to the requirements of medical studies in Graz from a distance, without even choosing a place to live in Austria, to make the transfer, and so on. This virtual teaching is one that can be modelled on e-learning and highly culpable future proposals. So: Thanks to the University of Graz, she acted thoughtfully. The University of Vienna also thought ahead of this ECJ judgment, which re-regulated university access: Those responsible have considered what the calendar of appointments and meetings look like and how they could start setting the time limit for inscription. I would also like to thank you very much. That was a wise, moderate, appropriate response. However, one has known that both the Graz variant and the Vienna variant must be revised after the relevant judgment, if one has seen the justification for the judgment. The University of Innsbruck meant: We're watching at all. We are geographically located in a place where we have kept ourselves ever more open as regards the question of access by international students. We will see how the registration and the interest of German-speaking students will shape. There the SPÖ has, since Broukal has always known how it will come or how to convince or dissuade anyone of any judgment by means of intervention. We stand for a tradition of law where the Supreme Courts take their judgment without political intervention from national parliaments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is, a zigzag course has already occurred here – the reaction once too early, once too late, once wrong, once right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – Mr Dr. Jarolim, you should deal with a subject before you comment on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The debate continued after we were able to deal with the judgment. The hypothesis underlying the judgment was that the Austrian student landscape, the homogeneity of education would not be disturbed by the judgment, was not annoyed. In fact, only the empirical, the applications have shown that homogeneity, uniformity, medical care in the Austrian student landscape was disrupted. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was predictable!]] The highest officials, including members of the SPÖ and members of the BSA, have said: It won't get so bad, the inflow won't happen to the extent that the unknowing caller expects. So the Federal Chancellor was perfectly right not to exaggerate. No one could say with certainty what the number of interested parties would look like. Mr. Broukal's zigzag course continued, on 16 March. He said: Return to the old regulation. – But it was clear even among legally naïve people that this will not happen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very weak!]] ==References== In January 2006, he called for the country of origin scheme for medical study, which is about what we will decide now. – Then why does he not agree? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He said there'd be none anyway!]] ==References====External links== January 2006: That's how it could go. Regulation at European level, only one way out. Mr Broukal, I understand Mr Groenewald very well and thank you also for your careful analysis of the proposal, which says: There is no better solution under the present conditions than those proposed by the government. One can also talk about the remaining access arrangements for the further subjects. After the first year, we cannot take a final decision on future access. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] As far as medicine is concerned, we have the figures exactly, and there is no reason to worry, because there were no access regulations in the other so-called Numerus Claus subjects at all. In fact, European normality exists at the university. For exceptional situations, which concern only Austria, Germany, Belgium, France, we create a solution, and otherwise we stand on the European Higher Education Area, on European mobility, which this regulation does not in any way prevent, but is supported. I invite colleagues in Broukal and everyone else to agree to this UG amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6883	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes, and please start with the opinion to be corrected and give the correct opinion. No political values!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6913	Mr President, I will make an effort. – Ms. Dr. Brinek has claimed that I have publicly proposed intervention at the ECJ. - That's not true! It is true, rather, that I proposed to intervene with the European Commission at the time – something that happened later, unfortunately, too late. And there are enough witnesses living in this hall of this sentence from me, so [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] You should finally stop saying this untruth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6947	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Brinek) There you see that lies have short legs!]] – Mr Jarolim, I should like to ask you: It is still a very long session day, there are still many debates! Your quota is already going to decline!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e6989	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What are we talking about today? – We are talking about studying in Austria. We are talking about how many students can study in Austria as well. And we're also talking about some changes in titles, from the Bakkalaureat to the Bachelor's degree. We're talking about a new doctoral degree. All this, we were promised, we could talk and negotiate. It was very good at first. So even one Sunday evening in the ministry, there were two hours of conversations. I have stated that I am ready to negotiate early today in order to be able to make improvements to the government's proposals in order to perhaps agree to them as well. But of course I didn't call every day to ask: Can I negotiate now? May I come? – To us, no one has come to the opposition, except a call from you, dear Gertrude, regarding the information that there is an amendment request that I found today in the early days. - That's what I'm talking about. The government and you, Mrs Federal Minister, have always said that the opposition may move. If you are “moving” only understand that we should fall into the arms of the government or fall on our knees before you, then I must say: That's too little of movement or at least not the right direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have said – what Mr Brinek has said here at the speaker's desk – that a quota scheme in medicine is not something that makes me rejoice, but I think in the hurry and need of time there is no better solution or this solution, which is now being proposed, is better than the relatively infernal state of Is, as we have experienced it. However, we already have little understanding that approval tests or procedures are still being chosen. A test is better than the lucky wheel and the lot, that's what's telling me. But a test, which is based only on study ability, that is, attention, tenacity, if you want to do so, will also test renunciation and concentration, and on which all physicians will be beaten, is already – and I address future patients – the danger that a guard of uniformed, almost cloned physicians will be promoted, all of whom have a characteristic: They can well remember a lot, they can think and see spatially, they are stubborn and empathetic. – It’s the question of whether you want to! I think that's just an emergency solution. What is still interesting, what you have never actually responded to, is the following: In medicine we would have the best care conditions of university teachers, i.e. doctors in the higher education service to students, around factor 3 better than in all other subjects. Why can't this be used? – Because the government has never addressed the issue of 100 percent of these university teachers being recruited in the health care or through this and have no time for teaching and research. There you should take responsibility and examine what's going on. But we said: If this quota scheme is already to be swallowed in medicine, or if – provisionally, limited and limited in time – why are there any other fields of study – and at least five have been mentioned, where in all Austria more than 15 locations of universities, I can exclude the universities of art, no more than 350 places of study are missing – the rectors are authorized to grant admission restrictions? – Because they want it, you will answer. I will answer you: Rectors are representatives of all university members, not only their self-representation, but mainly also representatives of students. Then they should say why they can't take more students, then they have to put up with the courage. The conditions at universities are insufficient in terms of human resources, space resources, laboratory equipment, worker protection provisions, in order to increase the number of students who can define open access to higher education as justified. But they don't say that, and I don't like that from the rectors, or just half the truth. What picture is now available to students and their relatives and parents? – Students have to feel indescribable, students feel that they are the reason and cause for the universities to rush out of order into chaos. This is a picture I don't want to convey to young people. We want more people to study. The whole debate about Elite-Uni or Excellence becomes a farce and holocaust when one knows that in all educational parameters we are far below the EU average in terms of the number of graduates, i.e. the number of Maturants, in terms of transfers after the matura to the university, in terms of academic ratio. And then we'll start digging the horse at the tail! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we want to reach the EU section alone, we need 100 000 more students. If the government says that she can't pay for this today, I still somehow understand it, but she must have a goal to confess to, which can't be called "world class", but: Let us at least reach the European cut. When I hear the interpretations of the head of the rector's conference Badelt, I must say that his university has the worst care conditions in Austria. There a professor or a professor meets 209 students! He has to say that, and you have to ask the government! By itself and by silence, education policy is no better! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the new doctorate of three years in the sense of a PhD, which could perhaps replace this old-fashioned ordination of habilitation, I can confess and will agree in second reading. The amendment that the supplementary title ‘FH’ can be taken away from or left out of the College of Applied Sciences and Bachelors, and the government does not have the courage to say that we do not need it because no one in the UK, America and Argentina knows what ‘FH’ means, I think a little tired and little brave. We are not going to agree now either. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What does “little courage ” mean?]] Perhaps another little treat for President Khol. I would have been interested in the following: There are quotas reserved for 70 percent of study places for holders of Austrian matura products. South Tyrolers don't have an Austrian matura certificate, except it would be one from the monarchy, but they don't exist anymore, I think. What rate do these fall into? – I do not now argue for a South Tyrol solution, but do you still have to add the number of South Tyroleans to keep the number of Austrians constant, or are they added to the Austrians, and we insist that we do not have a 70 percent quota in Innsbruck, but suddenly only one of 50 percent of Austrians? – This is not chauvinist, but a pure question of curiosity to a South Tyrol-enraged president.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7056	I assume that the whole house is committed to South Tyrol. Yes, Mr Van der Bellen also agrees with me; we two Tyroleans. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7080	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Several areas are under discussion on the current subject. Point 1: Why was the change in access to higher education necessary? As we have already heard, on the basis of the decision of the European Court of Justice. It was responded as soon as possible, Mr Broukal. It is clear that, as long as there is no judgment, we do not assume that the judgment will be bad for us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] It was thought about it; in part, you were there, and in part, the ministry has also thought alone. That is also good, but when the decision was taken, we responded immediately the day after that in the National Council. We are not – I had actually corrected this, but since I spoke anyway, that did not require any actual correction on my part – we did not sit in the back room of the FPÖ club, but we were sitting here in the couloir in one of the rooms. Please remember, Mr Commissioner, we have never been gathered in the back room of the FPÖ. That's correct. It was responded as soon as possible and as soon as possible. In this too, we agree: If a judgment has been passed, the next day the National Council will respond! This has been the case, and so it has come to a regulation very quickly in this case. Why not the quota system? was another point you have raised. – The judgment states that proof of homogeneity has to be provided, and we could not prove on that day that homogeneity is disturbed because we did not know how many German students will really come. We can only take back this regulation where it is detectable – and that is the case only when studying medicine – and say: Let us make the quota arrangement, which you also approve. That's exactly what you asked. So why are you voting? You're not too close? That would really interest me. In addition, the universities have agreed to accept 20 percent more medical students in order not to get any disadvantage for Austrian students. In general, we have set a two-year deadline in the law for all these regulations that exist. That is, next year all regulations will be evaluated, we must look at all the regulations, and then we can set the best for Austria, the best for Austrian students and the best for Austrian universities. We cannot do that until we know how the various measures are affected. Of course, it would have been best for us to return to the old regulation, so that everything is the same as before. Unfortunately, this was not possible in the EU. They were all for the EU. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Are you not for the EU?]] That is why we must accept this too. We are in this legal framework, we are doing the best out of it! – I was not for the EU at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Are you not for the EU?]] I voted against it in the vote on accession, yes. I say that honestly and openly. The people, however, have decided to accept Mr Broukal, and this is of course to be accepted by a people's representative. Therefore, we must strive to make the most of it and in this case achieve the best possible for Austrian students. That is, we cannot go back to the old regulation, but we must make the best possible regulation, and that is the quota system in this area. – Please agree! That's exactly what you asked. The reason why we cannot abolish the scheme for the other subjects of study is that we have limited it to two years. Perhaps many other German students also insist that in subjects such as biology, pharmacy and so on, it would be great and great to go to Austria. [[Abg. Broukal: This is where the Minister has an emergency brake right!]] We do not know that yet and therefore have to wait. Perhaps the situation is changing, and perhaps in two years the homogeneity has also been disturbed in other areas, then we can also make changes there. But we do not know today, and that is why it would be unwise to bring about changes in all areas. I think you agree. The universities can set autonomous restrictions on access in medicine. If there is now this entrance test, then – I am glad that we all agreed on it; we have set it in a committee setting – social competence must also be included in the evaluation. This is a very, very important point for me, because it is also about patients who can be sick once. Doctors who are trained at our universities should have the necessary sense of fineness, not only should they be able to work on the patient, but they should also be able to deal well with him. If we already want the best, it must also be the best, namely those who can best deal with people. We have stated in a committee statement that we want to take into account social competence in the assessment of the Swiss test, which most universities will conduct as a test of suitability, and we will ask for it. I assume, Madam Minister, that the Ministry will be responsible for ensuring that social competence will be included in the assessment of students. That was our concern. – That was a four-party union. There was a three-party agreement with regard to the titles of the technical universities. I am pleased that there will also be the “Bachelor” and the “Master” without an additional “FH” here; for the previous graduates, this addition will continue to exist. I am pleased that this agreement has been reached that we have succeeded in deciding together. I am also pleased that we are increasing our doctoral studies to three years in the course of the Bologna process of internationalization in order to achieve comparability at international level. The fact that we can do this together can be seen: It is also possible in the field of education to reach unanimous decisions when discussing matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7163	Mr Green Forest, you have apologized me for this South Tyrol question. I think that Mrs Minister will give an opinion on this. South Tyroleans are treated in accordance with the Cultural Agreement and the South Tyrol Equality Act, such as domestics. But we will also hear this from the Minister who has spoken. – Mrs Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7185	Mr President. High house! The arrangements under discussion for admission to medical studies give rise to a general discussion of university development. Mr Grünewald said that a generally bad picture of the universities predominates that young people are being deterred from studying. Ladies and gentlemen! I note the following: In the last five years, the number of students has increased by 12 percent. The number of students increased by 27 percent, and the number of graduates increased by 23 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I mean, this gives us a very, very positive picture about the work of our universities, about the development of our universities. We have since 2002 the implementation of the new university law, which by the way, is recognised worldwide. Many requests are made to us to send a speaker representing this new university law. Some colleagues from Germany, especially rectors and rectors, have already meant that they would be pleased if they had such a university law, they would have above all such future prospects as Austrian universities. In recent years, the Austrian universities have experienced 15.6 percent increase in their overall budget with the support of infrastructure, with preferential professorships. For the 2007, 2008, 2009 budget years, we have already signed a further blatant increase with the rector's conference, the Minister of Finance and the Federal Chancellor. The universities will receive €525 million more in global budget in the coming years – an increase of 11 percent – and will receive €500 million for the modernisation of the buildings, and they will have the assurance that there is no budget commitment. This, ladies and gentlemen, is good future prospects for the Austrian universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it is a special concern for us to secure young people's places of study, especially for young people in Austria. We have therefore also responded immediately after the ECJ judgment and have taken the university law into Parliament with caution. We would have had 8 on the 8th. It is not possible to do anything at all on July if the university law had not already been incorporated into Parliament and would have been inconvenient. We have decided on a two-year arrangement and on a three-year period. [[Abg. Broukal: Eight courses, not three!]] We have said that, if necessary, universities can decide and implement admission rules. We have set a two-year observation period which we will evaluate to determine: How did the student streams develop? Ladies and gentlemen, the tense situation in medical studies has been on the verge of life, the subject has been discussed throughout Europe, but: How does the situation develop in the other Numerus-claus subjects? Due to the autumn semester 2005 you can definitely not see that! That means we have to be patient and take this two-year observation period very seriously – also for the benefit of our students. That is why I believe that together we should observe this two-year review period, draw our conclusions and then say how we continue to proceed. Now to medicine: Those who have really read the ECJ judgment – and I assume that the scientific speakers among you have read it from the front to the back – have learned that the ECJ has recognised the following objectives as very important objectives: The mobility of students must not be disturbed, there must be no discrimination on the grounds of nationality, there must be no prophylactic figures, there must be actual figures, and there must be four measures that are proportionate which are not excessive. In an international working group – we consider the Commission to be our partner, we consider Germany to be our partner – we have made every effort to find a solution that meets these requirements of the ECJ judgment. I was very surprised then, and that was already mentioned by the colleagues when different messages came from the opposition: Back to the old regulation!, let us complain again!, quota regulation! And more. [[Abg. Broukal: Your own proposal!]] I'm telling you, you have to go around the good solution, you have to discuss the good solution publicly. But on the basis of some of the statements I read from you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, sometimes I think of an analogy to a rather old film: For they do not know what they want, or: They don't know what they want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I mean, this issue is an important issue. [[Abg. Broukal: You know that very well!]] That is why, after the discussions in the international working group, we have drawn up a proposal which: does not prevent mobility, does not lead to discrimination on the grounds of citizenship, builds on actual figures and proposes a proportionate measure. – These are the four premises that have been identified by all European law experts as the important, top targets. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, discussed this arrangement with our German partners, and we have discussed it with the Commission. But to your reputation that we can do something only after a Commission approval, I must say quite honestly to you [[Abg. Broukal: What is it again for an untruth?]] [[Abg. Broukal: From the government bank untruths! That's one thing!]] I do not think so, because education, science, universities are national affairs, and we do not let ourselves take away this independence, this responsibility! [[Abg. Broukal: Where did I say “approval ”? Please quote!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Where did I say “approval ”?]] We bear responsibility for our solution in Austria. We find a solution, we argue the solution, and as soon as the decision-making process – I very much hope, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you still agree, for it would be a pity if by your No such decision-making would again be delayed for a very long time – the necessary incentives can be made. Once the decision has been taken, we can also send the document to the Commission for notification. – For the benefit of young people with an Austrian matura certificate, we should decide together on this important arrangement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How does this scheme look? – The regulation means: We increase the number of study places from 1 250 to 1,500, we increase by 20 percent. You always wanted that – we do it. Please agree! The scheme means: 95 percent of the total study places in the studies referred to in the Regulation are available to young people from the European Member States, i.e. with maturity certificates from these Member States, 75 percent of the total study places for study applicants with an Austrian maturity certificate, which may also be other nations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] As all European law experts have repeatedly told us, these regulations are European-compliant and include these important objectives, which have been mentioned in the ECJ judgment. Ladies and gentlemen! We spoke with the German Minister who meant that they accepted this arrangement. I have had several talks with Commissioner Jan Figel, and he also believes that this is quite a possible arrangement. And we want to use the two-year observation period and see how these figures have developed. Now on the question – the President has already mentioned this –: What about South Tyrol mature products? There are a lot of cultural agreements and laws that equate mature certificates from other countries to Austrian mature certificates. These include the South Tyrol ripening certificates under the 1997 People's Group Regulation, which include Luxembourg's mature certificates by means of a cultural agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and these include the Liechtenstein mature certificates. This includes – and this is very important to me – also the Bakkalaureat of the Lycée Francais in Vienna and also the mature certificates from Austrian foreign schools, but that was always the case. This is not new, it has always been, and we will continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that we have formulated this regulation, which could also be referred to as a "safeguard rule", to the best of our knowledge and conscience, to the best of our knowledge and conscience and to respect the objectives of the European Union. I am very concerned that we will decide together, if possible, this arrangement, because I tell you, it is important that we take care of the young people in Austria. [[Abg. Broukal: Then meet us a little bit! Just a little!]] It is important that we provide enough study places for young people with Austrian maturity certificates, and it is important that we ensure adequate medical and medical studies in Austria. That's why I'm asking you: Voices You agree to this arrangement!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7360	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7381	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, if you are talking about having to put up a lot of patience in connection with our universities, it is not exactly building up for those who are studying today who work at the universities. You have to put up with a lot of patience for years, because the situation at the universities is not as rosy as you presented it, Mrs Federal Minister. The situation at the universities is difficult and serious. The €525 million quoted by you, which will be made available to universities for the next few years, are below the limit that the rectors have repeatedly presented as an emergency program, as an urgent emergency program for universities. Of course, they accept that they are getting money at all now, but we should not wander around here because these funds are far below what the rectors have long described as necessary. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You agree!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even after your remarks, Mrs Bundesminister, the two key issues remain open to us. This is, on the one hand, the question of the EU-conformity of the regulation to be adopted today and, on the other hand, the question of access restrictions; these also remain in other subjects, in non-medical subjects, where the storm of German students has failed. From our point of view, these are two very important points, but I spoke earlier with our scientific speaker, Mr Broukal, and I can say that there is still a way to get our agreement to this regulation today. The main point for us is the question of access rules. They did not do anything at that time, and then, one day after the ECJ judgment became known, they introduced inadvertent access restrictions, not only for medical studies, but also in eight directions of study. Today, it is decided to continue to maintain access restrictions in many fields of study, such as biology, pharmacy, psychology, business administration and publicity, although the storm has not taken place. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We think the observation period you call is counterproductive. Our offer would be: Let us also lift the restrictions on access today for these areas of study! We have been offering you a long time ago, and we are talking about finding a common arrangement that we too can agree with, because we are very interested in taking steps that lead to clarification at the universities. Let's talk about it again! Add the access restrictions and the SPÖ will agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7427	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7448	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For terminology adjustment: First, the names ‘Bakcalaureate’ and ‘Magister’ are replaced by ‘Bachelor’ and ‘Master’. Secondly, I would like to make a few fundamental comments on the abolition of the title addition to the FHs. With regard to internationalisation and Europeanisation within the framework of the Bologna process, I think the need for an approach and movement by all of us in this direction is urgent in the context of our discussion and for the implementation of the first scale, i.e. a set-up of all sides and no "in-the-arms cases", Mr. Grünewald! I know there has been a lot for and against in the discussions of the last days and weeks. I had a very detailed, partly emotional and intense conversation with the Graz Vice-Chair yesterday. But there are not only votes against. For the rector of TU Vienna, for example, the departure of the FH addition is not a problem because, as he says, the rank and reputation of the universities and their position in international competition are not in competition with each other. But there must ultimately be a fundamental decision. The direction was also clear from the beginning. Austria would have been alone with this addition, but the orientation of an international nomination is important and correct. We have reached a common solution. We wanted to live up to all attitudes, as far as possible, to involve them, to meet them in order to find the best possible solution for the Austrian university landscape in the European context. I am very pleased that, in the end, all four parties can agree to this solution. Three parties participate in the three-year doctoral programme, which is to be anchored in the UG in this context – a measure that is also to be taken – at least three parties. We are talking about a balanced overall approach, whose balance is still being worked on. The proof of this is a three-party amendment that I would like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am sorry that the reading of this request has cost me much of my speaking time, but I think that I can conclude by saying that we are in common. and hope for further talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7549	The amendment just read by Dr. Brinek, Dr. Bleckmann, Dr. Niederwieser, colleagues and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7637	Mr Zinggl spoke as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7658	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign rate is one thing. But why should the same washing-up also include maximum allowable numbers for studies such as biology, business administration, pharmacy, publicity, psychology and veterinary medicine? – This is really the reason why we Greens do not agree to this law at all. Mrs Minister, you justify this by saying: There may now be a lot of applicants from Germany who insist that they can deal with the numerus clausus in their own country by applying these courses of study in Austria, and then perhaps a flood of Germans could come upon us similar to in medicine. We have not yet noticed that such a trend is emerging in this direction. There are exactly no increasing numbers of studies in the public sector – you know that just as well as I do. That is, you probably don't believe this yourself, otherwise you would have set up a similar quota for foreigners for these disciplines as in medicine, i.e. 75 percent with Austrian Matura certificate et cetera. You didn't do that! I wonder, Why, then, are these restrictions on access at all? – On the other hand, there are also courses of study in Austria, which for years have had a very high proportion of foreigners. The Mozarteum Salzburg, for example, has 95 percent foreign students in the field of piano; there is also no mandatory Austrian matura certificate. [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] Somehow this doesn't have a logic and a system. It makes this thing so suspicious, because, in reality, you, Mrs. Minister, are only about systematically tilting free access. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You've already started with the tuition fees. That's how it goes. Then the missing efforts came in the face of the ECJ judgment and in the wind shadows of this evil EU, you then went on and realized what you wanted anyway, but you could never say to the public that this would not have made a slim foot: that you really want to make it difficult to access universities. Repeatedly cut off a disc – that is salami technology and tactics – instead of spending more money and improving the funding situation at universities. [[Abg. Ellwall: Completely wrong!]] It would probably be easiest if you didn't allow any more students at all, then you didn't have to spend any more money for the universities, but that wouldn't increase the academic rate much. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: We spend more money!]] I wonder at all whether a 15 percent academic rate in international comparison is such a thing as access restrictions. It can't increase the rate when fewer people study. And what do you want to evaluate after two years? Do you want to ask dissociated applicants whether they actually wanted to study the business economy two years ago, whether they still want to do so today, whether they may have stayed somewhere in an area that has been almost overburdened and is now actually overburdened? – So it all seems very strange to me. But if you just want to consider whether really more German students are enrolled at the universities, I wonder why you can't do that without taking away the Austrian students. But I don't think you're going to test too much in two years anyway. It's just stupid for all those who want to study something that they can't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7736	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7758	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Zinggl, Mrs Kuntzl and Mr Broukal: I think it is quite unthinkable if you constantly want to understand the government parties that we are against free access to higher education. And if you even write in broadcasts that free access to higher education is carried to the grave, I reject this as extremely unscrupulous. Fact is, there are more than 170 courses of study. On the basis of this today's presentation for two courses of study, there would be a quota scheme for these 170 courses to make it easier for Austrian students to study medicine or dentistry. There will be so-called admission restrictions for six further study areas. Even there you always want to suggest that this is a must. The fact is that universities have the opportunity to decide, within the framework of their autonomy, whether they want to introduce admission restrictions. It has already been shown last year that at hardly any university – except at the medical universities where this quota scheme is now to be introduced – admission procedures have been carried out and all candidates have also been accepted. There was a fear that access restrictions will be introduced at the University of Salzburg in the field of communication sciences, that access restrictions will be introduced at the University of Graz for BWL or psychology. Nothing of that was the case! All the students who wanted to have been able to prove the degree they had applied for. Mr. Broukal – he is not in the hall right now – your party and you offer a fund of contradictions and a zigzag course as regards the solution of the problem for the medical students. I would just like to mention a few things here. You said last September that a quota arrangement was important. And you even said that it didn't matter if this regulation was again tipped by the ECJ. – That was your position in September. At the end of January, you were still in favour of the quota system, which you want to reject today, as I conclude on the basis of your speech. They then, according to the Scientific Committee, wrote in a letter that you only agree to this quota arrangement if the EU Commission has previously agreed to it. – I just want to point out your zigzag course. I would also like to quote your party president, who at the end of January said that we should not be afraid of the EU, because it could complain quietly. This lasts for one to two years and if we don't get right, we'll do something again and she can complain again. We'd have to stay tough. – Quote by Dr. Gusenbauer in the “Small Newspaper”. I ask you: What do you want? – They just want to be against it. If the government parties make a proposal that gives the students in Austria an opportunity to study light medicine, then you are generally opposed. This really proves that you don't want to bear any responsibility. I think it is important that this regulation be adopted today. Maybe think. She said that this was the best way for Austrian students not to be pushed out, to counter future bottlenecks with trained doctors, and that this solution is simply the best in this area. Finally, I would like to make an amendment concerning the second legislative proposal to be adopted today. Nor is it quite clear to me, Professor Grünewald, why you have said that you are voting against it. This is because it is a question of the fact that the future completion of Master's and Bachelor's studies of the higher education addition, which is always cited in parentheses, should no longer be mandatory. I am now bringing the amendment tabled by Mr Gertrude Brinek, Mag. Dr. Magda Bleckmann, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Higher Education Law, the MTD Act and the midwives Act (1309 d.b.). It is now explicitly stated that the FH addition will no longer be managed in the future, which means that the graduates of the FHs will have better opportunities for internationalization, if they happen in the international working world and will no longer lead this addition, which basically nobody understands internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! This is responsible policy for universities, for students. This is a responsibility which you seem to have adopted, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ. Perhaps you will think again about finding a very good solution for the medical students so that there is no competition for displacement!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7849	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner in his key points explained the amendment tabled by Dr. Brinek, Dr. Bleckmann, Dr. Niederwieser is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. According to § 53 para. It has been distributed to the Members of Parliament and is annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7931	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e7953	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle on the University of Applied Sciences Law internationalises the diplomas for graduates. I am very glad that FH's clamping expression falls because the formal requirements of studies at colleges are long equal to those at universities and because the qualifications are also differentiated only after that, not as regards the value, but as regards the degree of specialization and the orientation of the research interest. I think that this addition FH would really have been just something for business cards and letter heads, and I am very glad that we were able to overcome this anachronism. But I think that, apart from this novel, it would be necessary to introduce another, much larger novel to the University of Applied Sciences Law, because I do not think it is essential. On the one hand, the support of students in the prescribed practical phase, where it would be useful to evaluate the extent to which a sensible training is provided, is paid appropriately and labour law is also respected. It would be great – and really necessary – if there was a legal and efficient way of co-determination for students, even at technical universities. This is completely lacking, especially for those who study in higher education courses and not at vocational colleges. In this respect, a very strong impulse would be needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also a lack of clear rules on the accountability of previously acquired, professional knowledge, for example in secondary or higher schools, in colleges or in other educational institutions, which the students can rely on. Similarly, effective support measures are lacking for interested parties who do not have normal university maturity, but who, for example, come with an examination certificate or wish to obtain higher education with the certificate of a vocational middle school. There would be a real need for action and new initiatives. Unfortunately, the presence of women's promotion programmes in individual institutions is still not relevant to the Council for how many places and courses are approved. Finally, it would also be very important for me to finally set an initiative, which is the A-valuability in the employment of the graduates of technical colleges. and higher education courses in the public service. Unfortunately, the change in title alone or the equalisation of title alone does not bring us any further. We all know that the technical colleges have brought about a very rapid development. I believe that it is really important and necessary to take further steps now so that they can also meet the challenges of the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8017	Next item is the report by Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8038	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bayr, I can reply to your criticism of internship support: From my point of view – I draw an example from the University of Applied Sciences of St. Pölten – a targeted and professional internship care is very likely to take place in all areas. In the field of internship care, there are also friendly universities. I can calm you down. It works fine. As far as accounting is concerned, it is also to be said: HTL studies are taken into account in technical studies. The amendments to be decided today to the University of Applied Sciences Act are, I believe, really necessary, important and, so to speak, enhancing compatibility with other European universities and universities. That is why I very much welcome it. I also believe that we can say today that our professional universities are really very popular and that the degree of organisation and diversity of Europe are the top of Europe. You can really say that with fug and right. If you travel a lot abroad, as I am, you can convince yourself. I therefore believe that the criticism that we are not going to continue in the Bologna process is going to be empty. That's just not true! So far, we have converted 30 percent of Bakkalaureat's studies into Magister's studies, and I think that the joint study and double degree programs are also very good. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: You wouldn't fall out of the crown if you agreed to this change of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8076	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8097	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let me start with the access provisions of my remarks. Mrs Bundesminister and other speakers have asked us to vote in favour of this, because we do, in terms of content, support the regulation on how it is made for medicine. Once again, the offer already made by Mr Kuntzl and Mr Broukal: Quit the restrictions in the other subjects! There is no need for a restriction. You only want to maintain them by principle. If you do not agree, we will agree. The question is: Why do you want to maintain the restrictions in the business sector when it comes to medicine and if your argument to the EU is that our health system is at risk? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: As Kann-Determining! That's not a must destination!]] This will also be asked by the ladies and gentlemen of HAK St. Pölten, who are here today, namely, why they have to encounter such restrictions on access, which you only want to maintain on principle. So give up – and then we can vote! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: From this point of view, I would like to strongly contradict all those who say: With this procedure, we are now choosing the best students! The ‘Kurier’ has even entitled: ‘Casting: Only the best are allowed to study.” – Yes, this is a newspaper headline, but it must not come so far that we believe we are choosing the best in a public television procedure in front of the running camera. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Newspaper hit!]] These are those who are likely to study relatively quickly. That's what this system is, but all those who go through there are just as suitable to study medicine. Only: There's no place. – You have to say that quite clearly and clearly once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third point: As regards the technical colleges and the additional FH: To that end, we had tabled a proposal which would have gone much further. Nevertheless, they have again provided for a number of restrictions. Let's go there – let's be! – because we know how tired it has been. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Thank you!]] I have also received mail and can say: That was no easy way, and that is much more than possibly expected. That is why we agree to this point. Fourth and last points: Ms. Federal Minister, Federal Government Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, thanked the Olympics for their excellent achievements. We like to join in this thanks. In the relevant listing is also... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] – We would not have needed this listing! In this listing is also spoken of by the Austrian German army and by the Austrian sports schools. What has not been mentioned and what I would like to repeat here in this scientific debate is the thanks to the many people at the universities that have helped, for example in the sports science institutes. The gold medal has been developed by the brothers Linger, who have expressed this very clearly, in close cooperation with the Institute of Sports Sciences and the Institute of Sport and Circular Medicine. This is an example for many of our athletes who cooperate with our universities. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8184	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8206	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. One thing, Dr. Niederwieser, I already have to hold: What we are doing here today, namely the terminology adjustment in the university law, is something where we fulfill our commitment to show the requirements of the Bologna process. Nothing else is included in our requests – and we do. Furthermore, it is decided today that Backalaureat and Magister studies will be completed with the title “Bachelor” and “Master” in the future. This also includes university graduates accordingly. There will therefore no longer be any discrimination in one direction or another in the future. That means: All that the Bologna process requires in this regard, we also do, with good conscience. We are actively committed to this, and I am therefore grateful that you have agreed to agree. If Mr Zinggl says that the access restrictions are due to the fact that the academic rate in Austria is so low, I must say: First of all, we must also take into account in an international comparison that we also have training steps in Austria, which do not complete with an academic level, but which is very likely to be the case in other countries. That's certainly a reason for that. But apart from that, we were able to increase the academic rate from 7 percent to 14 percent in our government time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means: Not step back, but “Forward!” is our motto. Our motto is also “appropriate. ” And certainly the regulation we have made in the field of medical students is also appropriate. If 75 percent of the courses are reserved for Austrians, this is more than just, because it is also necessary to ensure the need for doctors to do so. The following must also be said – that has not been mentioned at all today –: After all, the number of places of study has also been increased by 20 percent. This is something positive that needs to be mentioned. There are now 1 500 instead of 1 250. Furthermore, with this number of places of study, we are still far better than Germany. In fact, we have around 1,500 study places for 800 million people, while in ten times as many students, Germany provides only 8 300 study places. That means: We have twice as many medical courses as Germany. Thus, it can be said that Austrian students are certainly well-equipped, although some study conditions at universities – but not the woman's minister – are improved. I would like to thank the Minister for your quick response and for the security of Austrian students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8257	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8278	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students in the audience, it will probably be interesting for you! If there had been access restrictions to universities before, some colleagues in the number of doctors would not be able to practice their profession today. Above all, these are those physicians whose parents were not financially well equipped to pay for their studies. What price and why were the tuition fees introduced before the last election, despite the otherwise loud announcement of the Federal Minister Gehrer? – But only for this reason, to reach the zero deficit again in the forerunnerous obedience, which has emerged anyway as a unique bubble of soap. We cannot agree, colleague Bleckmann – unfortunately she is not here now – because, for example, 1 200 medical students are in waiting position in Graz. It's three to four years old. You have to imagine that. We cannot therefore agree because the other subjects do not remove the study restrictions. This is really a gross injustice, which is easy to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, today it has already gone through the media: The German Federal Government will not be able to comply with this 3 percent mark on budget deficit. – The Austrian Federal Government, on the other hand, believed three years ago to have to start with the zero deficit. So a pre-emptive obedience, which is simply incomprehensible, because it goes at the expense of many young people who are seeking medical studies. With the maintenance of access restrictions, for example in the fields of biology, pharmacy, psychology and so on, the government parties are again out of vanity, against the objectives of both the Bologna and the Lisbon strategy – and this, although investment in education, science and technology would be so important for future positive development. A few figures: 432 places are now available at the Medical University, 323 for Austria, 86 for EU citizens and 22 for students from other countries. All the others have to wait! We really cannot agree with that from the SPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8333	The next item is Mrs Felzmann's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8354	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walther has just provided an example of what the opposition's policy view looks like, and this in the field of education is actually reduced to two points: On the one hand, only the Call for money on the part of the opposition parties – regardless of the figures you have already mentioned today, it is about increasing the educational budget. For one thing, then: Call for money – and no ideas on the part of the opposition. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The second is a kind of deterioration of the Austrian education policy on the part of the opposition – and this, although it can be described as really excellent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's take a look at that! Since the entry into force of the University High School Act 2002, we have not only moved on an international stage in this respect, but we are also welcomed internationally, and experts congratulate us on our education policy. Therefore: Please also acknowledge from the opposition at last what we have succeeded in Austria with the university law! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have also taken this path of internationalisation, a way that allows the recognition of the titles internationally. This ensures job opportunities at an international level. We managed to do this with the high school law. Since 1994, the high school model has been inseparably linked with the names Elisabeth Gehrer and Erhard Busek. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. see, we had very good ideas at the time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a huge success model: 19 funding organizations, 140 courses, 25,000 students, a doubling of the number of students since 2000! If you look more closely at this, you can see: The half will focus on the field of technology; 37 percent on economic studies. These disciplines, in particular, require an international educational path and a globalized process. Again: a shiny model! Too bad you don't agree with the opposition parties everywhere! In the rest of Europe, others find it to be exemplary what we have done in these areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8444	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8466	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students in the gallery, you see behind me on the government bank the bundled incompetence of the ÖVP education policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's impossible! That's an insult! Excuse me!]] [[Call the ÖVP: It is unheard of!]] What do I mean by that? – Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer is responsible for the devastating PISA results! [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Excuse me!]] Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer is responsible for the reduction of hours, for the reduction of teachers, for all these cuts! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Excuse me!]] Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer is responsible for blocking small schools and continuing the thinning of rural areas! [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] That's the truth! Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer is also responsible for the fact that there is a chaos at the universities in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we're trying to pull the emergency brake. The question, however, is whether this emergency brake can still work. [[Abg. Kößl: Your speech is a shame to Parliament!]] It has already been established: It is unclear whether this Regulation is at all EU-compliant, and it is also unclear why access restrictions remain open to so many other areas. You have to explain that first! You, the Federal Minister Gehrer, are facing important educational tasks that you have to fulfil, so that the youth who listens to the gallery above also has a secure future at the universities! That's our accusation to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: This speech is a shame to Parliament!]] As a teacher at the university as well as as a national administrator, I would like to explain to you what your educational low sleep costs the Austrian economy. A year's waiting time costs a student who is not allowed to study, the last year of his professional life, and that's – I've done this very low – for an academic 5 000 € per month, so 70 000 € per year! [[Abg. Kößl: This speech is an expression!]] If you look at the waiting list for medical study and the places available for it, you can see the following: [[Abg. Grillish: Your speech is cheap!]] There are only about 800 courses for 3 600 metres. That means: The difference between €2 800 and €70 000 is €200 million in economic costs! These are the ones that you think – triggered by this federal government through its inactivity – to the Austrian economy! But coming autumn will You get presented accordingly, because election day is payday! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8646	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8683	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! First of all, I would like to say that the level at which the first sentence of Mr Moser's speech began is that very many people are not watching the TV broadcasts from the House. I would like to apologise for the fact that someone who is committed to our education, as Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer, must accept this. [[Abg. Oillinger: What for?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I believe that the developments of the universities have been very excellent and very positive on the basis of your and our joint efforts. I regret that none of these positive developments, which are also known to the opposition, come from this side. [[towards SPÖ signposting]] I can't understand that at all. We have always sought to increase the proportion of women in universities. This has been successful, to an extent of far more than 10 percent in the last ten years. [[Abg. Broukal: For five years of this, Caspar One was responsible!]] We have most of the start-ups in absolute numbers and, relatively, all times. We have most of the professors of all time. Without this university reform, our students would still be the oldest teachers in Europe, as they were not too long ago. I believe that a whole generation of people, Mrs Gehrer, will be grateful to you for this, at least in retrospect, even though sometime in their youth they have chosen red or green. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the relationship with German students at our universities is concerned, I would simply like to point out that a third more students from developing countries than, for example, from Germany or Italy are studying at the Austrian universities. I think that this international exchange, which has risen strongly against your fears, is very important and I am also pleased about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8774	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8795	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Hans Moser's statement was not a personal opinion of him at all, but it was a reflection of the media realities. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Prince: That was nothing! Nothing at all!]] I believe that one should also have the openness to remain critical here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a lot of positive efforts to make joint efforts – and this is not a question of the joint amendment to the FH title add-on and to the subject of vocational education and training in the context of the Bologna process – and there is always very constructive joint activities with the Federal Minister of the Interior. Nevertheless, one must remain critical, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Today – and this has already been said several times – we would very much like to agree to this university law if there were not a fundamental error in this bill and if these provisions of access, which in principle prevent us from agreeing to it, were not to be repealed. Mrs Achleitner confused this with the quota system at all: The quotation is an invention of Josef Broukal, and it has remained to this day – he has always been able to do so. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] – You have documented this very well! – But it is a difference between a quota and access rules. I'll tell you: We can't go with that! Think about it, please, once again! We would very much like to agree, but it is not possible for us to come You then next time and say: The Minister of Finance does not want to afford school transport for the students anymore, that is too expensive – let us take up compulsory schooling! This biasing trend must be countered, and we must therefore insist that these access provisions be removed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8858	The next item is the speech by Mr Preineder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8879	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Education, science and research are subject to constant development, constant change and, above all, internationalisation, and we – and above all, our Mrs. Federal Minister – are taking this into account. I believe, Mr Gartlehner, that it is not about criticism, but about the way in which criticism is practiced. If you become personally insulting, this has nothing to do with criticism. Mr Broukal has also made insulting statements in committee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, we are dealing with the amendment of the University Law and the College Law, and we are also taking into account the internationalization: We match the names of courses, of study work and above all from academic degrees accordingly. We are implementing a European regulation and are thus in line with internationalisation. I think Austria simply wants to position itself more strongly in the international science field – our initiatives towards Elite-Uni are a clear example of this. If we change the title Magister and Bakkalaureat to Master and Bachelor, this is also a signal for permeability in our education area. In particular, the amendment that I would like to support in the direction of the removal of the brackets ‘(FH)’ creates clarity, because this addition is really not explained abroad. It is also a clarification in that we want to avoid mixing English terms with German terms. In addition, this is not common in any other country with comparable educational institutions. We do not want to hide and therefore do not clap. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The absence of this concept of linkage for the FHs is, I believe, also a recognition of their work and is more involved in our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8931	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8952	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Preineder! We remove the ‘FH’, play on equality, but I ask you: What about the payment and the classification? Are these people considered to be full - fledged academics? – This is important for their future, for their reward and for their security of life – that is the point on which it is concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to address the fact that this matter is marginalized by the fact that the quota system, which concerns hundreds of students in their existence, is massively and repeatedly detrimental. It is those hundreds of students, not only in Graz, who now fall out despite the 20 percent increase in the quota. What does that mean for them? – If they wish to obtain their family allowance, the scholarship, they must provide proof, i.e. they must register in another subject. And if they do, in autumn, because they have deliberately decided for medicine, once again apply for medicine, they fall out of both systems. I have also raised this issue in the Committee. The Minister meant that such inadequacy should not happen or that there would have to be a scheme. Mrs Minister, your speech in committee and perhaps here too is good, but what I ask for is information and a clear legal situation! Financial offices need to know, study aid authorities need to know, other institutions need to know, otherwise it looks like only those students who have the relevant information – and that is few – can use this scheme. These students cost this process two semesters, a lot of money and then a year in the pension account. – I think there is an acute demand for action in the sense of equality. A second area is planning security, which is not given – quite apart from the ECJ knowledge. There are countless students who today are studying in Vienna, who want to study diligently, quickly, and get involved in the planning period, but do not find the corresponding teaching potential at their faculty. There are Klagenfurt students, not only those who want to be finished in the planning period and who now have to register in Vienna and then fight for the recognition of this testimony in Klagenfurt! – And, Mrs. Minister, a reduced railway ticket Klagenfurt–Vienna and return costs 42 € – we don’t talk about the nights yet. All this has to be done by students because they have opted for a particular subject of study and want to be completed in the planning period. And finally – and I think that's easy to understand –: What I demand for the students today and also in the future is no longer and no less, and this is quite not a polemic matter that Austrian students have the same framework conditions, the same opportunities and opportunities as those of the BWL student and today's Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Grandruck: Ah, that's not polemic?]] He, who worked as a car seller at home in the parental business, had the opportunity to study as a working student in Klagenfurt BWL. At the time, there was still the possibility to plan courses at the university in such a way that one has entered the professional activity. – The chance of Karl-Heinz Grasser I wish for all Austrian students, and I think that the Federal Government would do well to open up these opportunities. What's good for grassers must also be good for all Austrian young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e8995	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only assign it to the serenity and kindness of the President that Mr Moser has not received an order for his incredible derailment, for his shake. – I really think this is unnecessary, Mr Moser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should have the cutting to go down and apologize to the Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Snow” is a foreign word for him!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a question of character!]] It is nothing to say against an objective dispute and against an objective-critical view, that is the normal interplay of opposition and government. But that's why you don't need to be personally, so you don't have to shake the jauchen barrel through the area. I'm telling you this clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What bothers me a little in this debate is that you act as if from the outset you had the absolute solution to the problem that Austria has got through the judgment of the European Court of Justice. There is even the point that Mr Broukal's quota system would have been invented – as if it had only been for a few weeks and there were not many, many other examples of quota schemes. But you can try to register with the Patent Office. Maybe you can have this idea protected. I would like to congratulate the Federal Minister on the solution that is at the table today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would have liked to hear the opposition if the Minister of Education had already been on the road at European level before the judgment was announced, i.e. at a time when no judgment has yet been placed on the table, in order to negotiate a solution in a way that is almost urgent. I would have liked to hear the criticism of the opposition. Thus, the National Council has already taken appropriate steps on the day following the announcement of the judgment. Through one, I think, very skillful grip in the Rules of Procedure, namely, on an §-27 proposal within the Committee on Education, we had a “carrier rocket” here in the National Council and were able to respond to it for days. This is the success of the Federal Minister that we today have a regulation at the table, which will be borne by the European Commission and, above all, by the neighbouring country concerned. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you once again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The opposition does not want to recognise that there will also be more places to study by 20 percent, especially the Austrians, who intend to complete such a study, to the extent that we can be satisfied with, as I believe, because it also ensures that those who really want to study can also study. I would also like to thank our science spokesman Gertrude Brinek for having been successful in the negotiations with the coalition partner. I think the opposition is also going along here, even if it tries to hide it, because nothing good can be what is proposed by the government. It is good that we establish a level playing field with the graduates of specialized universities. [[Abg. Broukal: Excuse me, that was the Erwin Niederweiser theme! That's Niederweiser's initiative!]] I think this is very good, because in the international process, it should be about seeing how many ECTS points someone receives for a study, and not about which school or college he comes from. In that sense, I think, the templates are good templates, they are to be supported. And it would be appropriate for the opposition not to say a priority to everything and to say no to everyone, to reject everything that the Federal Government puts on the table, because this destructive attitude will certainly not be honoured by the voters at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9110	The next speaker, Mr Cap, spoke.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9131	Mr President. High house! I am of course concerned that we have a reasonable form of dealing with the language here. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is what I am saying now in the direction of all the political groups; we are as often discussing internally as you may do. But the contentious accusation of incompetence will still be possible here in the House, and if you are trying to scandalize and make the stylistics of criticism on the subject, then I would like to point this out the hardest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] If I look at Mr Amon's last speech, then I can also start to tend it, and I can also be sorry about it, if I have the touch I have played, which is obviously sometimes used here as a strategic element, then I can say: What does this mean by destructive opposition? Of course we are constructive! I'm so sorry about that. So I can take the speech of Mr Amon and others here as well. I'd like to say: Where it is entitled, it is the task of us club members to intervene. There will also be a call for order from the President and the President where it is entitled. But where a content-based, subject-political criticism is appropriate and justified – and it is justified here, here there is a real incompetence, I also represent this opinion – it must be possible in this House, and there we do not let ourselves be banned!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9183	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9204	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! That was the expression of the living bad conscience now, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You cannot go out here and say, yes, it is really our job to look at it, and we must not become personal, and at the same time issue to Mr Moser a free letter for personal intervention! This is a contradiction in itself, Mr Cap. I'd like to say something to you: You will not succeed with the continuation of this very personal campaign against our very successful Federal Minister Gehrer, and it will be so that this extended index finger, which you are currently focusing on Mrs. Gehrer, will be directed against you, but that is not my problem, but yours.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9240	The next item is Mr Pilz's speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9285	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! When you enter the search term “Incompetence” in the age of electronic information procurement in Google, the first message is www.karlheinzgrasser.at. [[Abg. Murauer: Come out fungus!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this respect, there is some indication that the Federal Minister Gehrer can only be referred to second place here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9329	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the University Law in 2002, including the title and receipt in 1308 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of Parliament, Dr. Brinek, Dr Bleckmann, Dr. Niederwieser, colleagues, have tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Dr. Brinek, Dr. Bleckmann, Dr. Niederwieser, colleagues, tabled an amendment which refers to paragraphs 1, 14 and 41. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the high school law, the MTD law and the midwives law, including title and entry into 1309 of the Supplements. Hiezu, Deputies Dr. Brinek, Dr. Bleckmann, Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The rapporteurs Dr. Brinek, Dr Bleckmann, Dr. Niederwieser, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Article 1(6) and (9). I ask those Members who speak for it to be a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:01:11]] 3rd. Point Report of the Teaching Committee on the opposition of the Federal Council (1285, e.g.) against the law decision of the National Council of 7 June 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons in the right to freedom of establishment and freedom of movement within the Community. December 2005 concerning a Federal Law on the Organization of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005) (1335 d.B.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 644/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, colleagues on scholarships for PÄDAK graduates (1336, d.B.) 5. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on the Petitions (54/PET) on “Resolution of the Study Commission of the Federal Educational Academy in Upper Austria”, presented by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr (1337 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9457	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9491	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Oillinger: Please, now explain the table!]] [[Abg. Broukal: What's on it?]] You will, of course, ask yourself what this board might have to do with the Olympic Council of the Federal Government, this sage advocacy, about the discussion about the educational universities. Mr. Molterer, you probably already know. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thanks for this support of advertising! Excellent! Every open letter...!]] Now, of course, we can talk about whether what is coming is destructive or constructive. You'll probably think it's destructive. I say it's constructive, because you should finally learn spelling! [[Cheers of Deputies Dr. Cap and Dr. Einm.]] It is remarkable, Mrs Federal Minister, that we are teachers for German, there are school classes here in Parliament, and if any of whom would write the color white with two “s” and not with sharp “s” – just as Mr Schüssel and Mr Gorbach do – he would of course get a penalty for this or that would be counted accordingly. [[The speaker holds the panel in height]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (shown on the table) Please hold for the ORF in the camera! Thank you!]] [[Abg. Brosz: There's another spelling error in there!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freeman wise) Not enough! Sit down!]] Mrs Brinek looks at three affected, she knows of course. And I'm wondering, What does this federal government have for problems? The Minister for Education is here on the Government Bank, who then come to the Hoppalas on television. The top leaders of the government cannot legitimize and present something like this as an example of the Austrian nation. Each of the here praised athletes can clearly do this better than the two gentlemen, Federal Chancellors and Vice chancellors, can. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Perhaps, Mrs. Federal Minister, you can send the two back to a follow-up course for German. To the educational universities – where we hope that German will be taught well – today some directors of the current educational academies have spoken and meant that they are glad that this good law will finally be passed, and that everyone who thinks it would be a sign exchange would not understand much of matter. Two comments. One thing is: The Signatories of this call to the National Council obviously have little idea of what universities and universities are. They will document this very clearly with their press release. And secondly, I already understand that we are talking here, because at present the big run is in progress on the future rectors' posts, and all those who are now directors at the educational or vocational pedagogical academies and institutes expect this government – because there is no autonomy – to be appointed as the rector. I see these meddlings, these things also, from the point of view that they do not want to mess up with the government in terms of this function. As regards the content of the criticism, it remains unchanged: There are no universities, and therefore we continue to reject this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9625	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9656	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was a nice proof of how you understand your task here: You're making this mistake in an advertisement here. [[Call at the SPÖ: In the small print is still a spelling mistake!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is the dirt bubble coming?]] I wish you, Dr. Niederweiser, that no mistake ever happens to you. [[Abg. Broukal: So at least not one by 1 million €!]] The aim of the advertisement was to congratulate our sportsmen from the heart. This has been done by the Federal Government, and I believe that the government coalition is in every respect adhering to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, but the mistake?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Disgusting: The mistake doesn't matter! They already have citizenship!]] But that is not the real issue of this debate. The real topic of the debate is the question of insistence on the further development of educational academies to educational universities. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you say about the mistake?]] That's a good development. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you say about the mistake?]] I very much regret that you have raised this opposition in the Federal Council, which, in fact, did not have any really good reasons for content, but was certainly tactically motivated, but this is, of course, permissible. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And the mistake?- Oh, my God!]] I just think it's a pity because it's also time for the educational academies to take time to prepare to adapt to the new circumstances. We guaranteed them that. It makes sense to carry out this further development and make it from the academies universities. Teacher training is undoubtedly a very important key element in the question of successful educational work – which has, by the way, been stressed by the Future Commission – and it is therefore good that this important development of teacher training, which is always called upon by you, is now ensured by this determination of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And the mistake?]] I believe that it is also good for teacher education to be relocated to these educational universities in the future and that the degree which graduates will make of these educational universities is an academic degree, which can also be understood as an equivalent degree. I believe that this will achieve another very important element, Mrs. Federal Minister, in the further development of the Austrian school, which, of course, depends to a large extent on how teachers teach. This is an important element – that is, important international comparison studies, such as the PISA study, that this is a core element – and we are also 100 percent right and in the trend of time with this further development in teacher training. We therefore offer our teachers a highly qualified training which will be done at these future universities. This is good for the education system, and it is actually a pity that you have given your consent to one thing that you originally gave – because this form of teacher training has been agreed in the great coalition in this way – only because They are in opposition today, now refuse to approve and reject this model, quite simply because something that is proposed by this government must not be good. That is why you will persist in your agreement and will unfortunately not give your consent to this insistence decision and thus the law again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9808	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9833	Mr President. Mr Niederwieser claimed in his statement that only a spelling error could be found in the Federal Government's Secretariat. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A little more advertising!]] – That is actually incorrect! [[The speaker keeps the panel up.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: A little higher, please!]] There are at least two spelling errors to be found in this brief listing! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: After the old or new spelling reform?]] So it was possible for the Federal Government to make a second mistake in it, and I am correct for Mr Niederwieser: It says in the listing: “With the Federal Army, at the 108 main sports schools and 20 gymnasiums...” – and so on – “... and 6 higher e schools...”. – There was not the date formed in the case of ‘higher’. It says right: Higher and higher schools, Mrs. Federal Minister! At the 6 higher and higher schools! So that's a serious mistake. I just noticed: The German government also has difficulties in the interpunction. – Mrs Federal Minister, perhaps Let this be reviewed within the framework of a Commission, a textual reform committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9954	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e9976	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This draft law, which has been sent back to us by the Federal Council, is now apparently passed in the same form by the government parties. I would like to say once again why the Greens believe that this draft and this procedure do not meet the requirements of teacher training at all, and I would like to begin by stating just once again how the procedure was: The Akademieen Studiengesetz stated that a Commission would be set up, the so-called Planning and Evaluation Commission. Although it has quite correctly described what it thinks about things, it has: The assessment of the content of what has been presented here by the Planning and Evaluation Commission is already remarkable. I would like to draw all the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, who may not have followed this very closely, once again to draw attention to what the Commission, nominated by law by the Minister for Education, has said to the present law, namely: ‘The... Draft abandons the path taken by the AStG, is not EU-compliant in many details, does not comply with the standards proposed by the PEK by a professional tertiary institution, so that the information of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to the National Council, based on the PEK reports, does not include the information that Mrs. Bundesminister has provided to the National Council.” I believe that what is more troublesome is a Commission you are setting up with the law than that what you have presented here is useless and not useful for teacher training in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you look at what is necessary in terms of content, then, I believe, first of all, that a separate teacher training you are continuing – unique in Europe! – for the so-called secondary level I, i.e. for the lower level, for the fifth to eighth school level, especially in connection with the number of pupils, with which student development is simply pointless. We are training teachers here for primary schools – as you seem to want to keep the school system structured – where it is clear that in the next few years the number of students will decline massively. The student decline will mainly take place in the primary schools. We see that in the gymnasia de facto no decline will take place; the figures will remain the same in the secondary school level. The drop in pupils, which will amount to up to 25 percent in individual federal states, will de facto play exclusively in the primary schools. They make a law by which the young people who are trained as teachers there will have no professional prospects in the next five, ten, fifteen years de facto. [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] Now you can already say that it is also a value in itself to be trained at the university, at universities, only: The question of whether this is a particularly intelligent form of education control is acceptable. And we believe that it is simply not useful to build up the choices here, because the permeability from the primary schools to higher schools will still not be given, and this failure you carry with you today. That was also the Commission's recommendation itself – you do not implement it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Now one could talk for a long time about the number of times of training. We are at the lowest end of Europe with six semesters. We know that teachers are faced with many new challenges or new ones, such as the question of mother tongue teaching or the question of linguistic integration, especially in conurbation centres. You know as well as I do that someone who has just attended the PÄDAKs as a primary school teacher in or as a folk school teacher had exactly two hours of compulsory training in so-called intercultural pedagogy – that is, if he or she had chosen German. In Vienna, someone who has not chosen German can hear nothing from the question of intercultural pedagogy, the discussion with children with non-German mother tongue throughout his studies, in his entire teacher training! They know as well as I do that the problem or phenomenon of schools that are no longer run four-class, but where students are taught among themselves in various years – which in a pedagogical way offers many opportunities and would certainly be a useful concept if there were the necessary resources and trainings – is not a part of the education at the Educational Academies, not a mandatory part. In Burgenland there are 75 percent of schools that are no longer four-class – and a folk school teacher, or especially a folk school teacher in Burgenland, do not need to be prepared for it! These failures, I think, we feel in schools, and here it really needs to be changed. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But not only to talk about the educational academies, at the end of the day another word for teacher training at the universities. There is also, I believe, a very great need for reform. It is actually in Austria, when discussing, undisputed that there is a proportion of technical training in universities, but especially the field of pedagogy, which brings didactics quite a problem that, with twelve hours of duty in pedagogy and didactics at the university, we do not find the way out by far. I have also heard many discussions in which the demand has come from the university sector in particular: Moving the teacher's training to the university!, and it was pretended to be done with it. - Please don't! Especially at the universities, we need a restructuring of teacher training: away from the technical parts and much stronger towards what constitutes a good teacher, a good teacher, namely pedagogical competence, educational competence. And not only should we see what it is like in other countries, for example in Finland, where all teachers are trained at the university, but also see what is really on the agenda. In addition, only one final number: In Finland the share of pedagogy and didactics in primary school teachers is the teacher training 75 percent and only 25 percent of the trade share. – This is something we should focus on, which would lead to the future, but you absolutely do not implement this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10063	As the next speaker, Mrs Rossmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10084	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The best proof that this federal government is also doing excellent work in the field of education has today, I believe, delivered the opposition itself, namely that it has no other concern, as spelling errors and grammar errors in ads. [[Abg. Oils: That's enough! You should do the PISA test!]] So I want your worries! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's really ridiculous! You know that agencies do and that such things can happen. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: Oh, that's it! Oh, sooo!]] It's all too human. But back to this item on the agenda, the insistence fire to the pedagogical universities. The basis for this was already laid by the great coalition in 1999 – and I also say: then against our votes. And I also say that in many negotiations, including with the coalition partner, we have called very, very vehemently for a union of teacher training. [[Abg. Oils: They've never been for it before!]] However, we have also noted and have been convinced by the experts that this is only gradually possible, and what we decide here, for the second time as a insistence decision, is simply the first step towards further development. And we have also stated in a committee that there must be a commitment to cooperation. This means that there will be an obligation to cooperate with existing educational institutions and university institutions. – I think that’s a first right way. We really have many groundbreaking possibilities – I would like to remind you of that. First of all: it is Bologna-compliant! Mr Brosz, you have already claimed this in the first debate today; I do not know what you have in mind. This law is, of course, Bologna-compliant! [[Abg. Brosz: I quote the Commission! Quote!]] Then perhaps the Commission is wrong, or it has not had the last position when it claimed it. The fact is: What we decide here is Bologna-compliant. But we also – and that is, I believe, important – finally carried out the integration of the 52 educational academies to eight, please. That means a great potential for savings, and I think that is an important step. We have received two dioceses and an agricultural educational college. That's right, too. However, as I have said, we also have the obligation to cooperate, and we have for the first time set out a quality assurance. I believe that this is also important, and that is what has been called for in many studies and in the Commission for the Future. It is also important that the degree is possible after six semesters and that a permeability is given. I think that is a first big step. One can now say that it is too little, but one cannot handle everything at once, and I believe that the merger must take place in further steps. [[Abg. Brosz:... there has been since 1999! Last decade!]] The fact that education needs to be as best possible and as practical as possible, in this we are, I believe, all agreed. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] With this insistence decision – Mr Amon has already said it – you have once again demonstrated your slowing tactics. It is delayed; we could have done this for a long time. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can't put the wrong thing into practice, you shouldn't put it into practice!]] But I hope that this decision will now go the right way and will also find recognition. Further steps must be taken. I also say that we are going to fight vehemently to think about how kindergarten education continues in the near future, or in a second or third step. Because also kindergarten education should, I believe, be brought together professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10222	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10243	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful that we can finally decide today that the educational academies will be converted into educational universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I would like to contradict two allegations made here. Mr Brosz said that there was no permeability in the Austrian school system. [[Abg. Sburny: Proven!]] Mr President, I should like to thank More than 50 percent of the maturants come to Matura via the main school. [[Abg. Brosz: We talked about the teachers!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] We have an increase of 30,000 students in secondary schools. We have introduced the 100% permeability through the professional maturity test, so that apprentices, graduates from the teaching department, have access to the university and to the university. Therefore, in terms of permeability, education policy in Austria really has its nose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: How much percent mate?]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I'll tell you one thing, too. If you measure the level of education only at the Maturant rate, you do bitterly wrong to those who take a professional maturity test. I would like to tell you that other educational courses are also extremely important educational courses. Since the academic rate is always spoken of, I would also like to tell you that many more German students in Austria do not give any impetus at all to the academic rate in Austria and that the academic rate is measured by the number of academics in working life, and not by the number of graduates who come from the university. Second: Mr Brosz, you have spoken of the children with a non-German mother tongue, of the children of immigrants, of the children who are more serious. Whoever really looks around in our primary schools sees with what energy, with what love and what use the primary school teachers and the primary school teachers take care of these children. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you also have an argument?]] I would like to thank them for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The transformation of the educational academies into educational universities is another important step in the education policy of the Austrian Federal Government. We have greatly increased the budgets in the field of education. We have made a lot of investment in the equipment of schools. We have given schools more autonomy and more independence. We have enabled schools to cooperate with partners. We gave the universities autonomy with the new university law. We have increased the university budget by 15.6 percent over the last five years; it will be increased by 11 percent over the next three years. We have put research at the centre of our efforts, research, which will also play a very important role at the educational universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We increased the research rate from previously 1.88 percent in 2000 to 2.35 percent, and the Austrian Federal Government has provided €3 billion more for research for the period from 2000 to 2010. This transformation of the educational academies into educational universities is a real upgrading of the educational universities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat once again that I do not actually understand why the opposition does not agree. [[Abg. Großruck: Because she doesn't know herself, the opposition!]] We have implemented your demands that you made at the time when we jointly passed the Academies Law. [[Abg. Brosz: We didn't notice this at the odds!]] We have implemented these measures provided for in the Academies' Law, and I believe that that should be enough reason that the SPÖ, who made this law with us at the time, also agrees to this new university study law. Ladies and gentlemen, what were these demands? – One of these demands was the creation of a high school institution within eight years. We'll do it! One requirement was: Education in adult education and other educational fields; this can be offered at the new educational universities. A requirement was an organisational and study law according to the university standard; we did so. One requirement was to ensure the interaction of research and teaching. This is what we have done, research is secured at the new educational universities. A degree course with an academic degree has been required; we have done so, it will be awarded the academic degree degree. We have also taken into account the particular situation of the churches and religious communities. Under this law, there are possibilities for churches, religious communities and private applications to lead a educational college. We have also developed relations with university teacher and teacher training in such a way that synergies can be achieved, i.e. there is a permeability for cooperation. [[Abg. Brosz: Where is the permeability?]] The permeability is given by also recognition of education at the educational universities. There is no automaticity in permeability, but there is the command of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really pleased that today's decision is now possible to implement the actual implementation of the many academic associations that already exist in a legal system. Many academies have already joined together at the locations as academic associations, such as the Educational Academy with the Vocational Pedagogical Academy and with a religious pedagogical institute. These academic associations can now be transferred to actual educational universities. Ladies and gentlemen, there are different ways in Europe. There is the example of Baden-Württemberg, which has created educational universities and has thus gained best experience. There is the example of Switzerland; in Switzerland, pedagogical universities have been created, and they have thus made very good experiences. There is also the example of Bavaria; there in a law, in a law matter all educational academies were transferred to universities. There they told us: It was not a good solution at this rate because the educational training of compulsory teachers at universities is far too little at the heart of the efforts. I say quite clearly here: The training of our compulsory school teachers and compulsory school teachers is a very special and a particularly important task. The Federal Government has responsibility for compulsory schools in our country. The Federal Government is therefore also responsible for the best training of teachers. We will continue to be happy to bear this responsibility with the educational universities in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10418	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10440	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs. Minister, you are talking about the permeability in the school system, that this permeability is given. – Yes, it is given, but only if the social environment fits. As soon as children come from a remote educational environment, it is unfortunately over with permeability. This has even recently criticized a UN human rights expert in an issue. He says in this issue that this early division of the school system is only common in Germany and Austria and that it is not good. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you say there are almost only positive reviews of this law on the organization of educational universities; You do not understand the Federal Council, you do not understand the objections of the opposition. Then I can only say: But obviously you do not understand the oppositions of the National School Councils, you do not understand the oppositions of the rectors' conference, the Catholic Family Association, the Federal Chamber of Labour and numerous other organizations and citizens' initiatives. I don't quite understand why you don't want to see these gaps, why you don't want to turn these wrong-set ways in the right direction and just think again about how this law could look. I would like to draw out two points which are particularly painful. One is the kindergarten pedagogy, which is not there. I think it's very much like a general knowledge that children need special attention in the first years of their life and that the education of kindergarten teachers should be the best thing. It is clear to all of us that curiosity, desire for knowledge, joy in learning and research can be promoted very early, but can also be stopped very early. If it doesn't fit into your world picture that children should also be cared for as well outside the family, then I don't understand at all. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, that fits our world picture!]] I do not understand why you do not allow this course of higher education for kindergarten teachers. [[Abg. Großruck: Your worldview is the moon! You live on that! The pedagogical world view of the SPÖ is the moon!]] Another point concerns research. Mrs. Minister, you said that you had brought this together in this law, and all this was wonderful. Why, then, does this Commission, and here I quote, say that this draft law does not encourage the exercise of research tasks, but limits them, as it says, to the universities, which is super clear and devalued. It does not result in a very good picture; Restrictions and restrictions are the special features. If we still consider the opposition of the Federal Chamber of Labour to this draft law, it will be more than clear that this law should not be implemented. I would therefore ask you from the government parties: Abstain your “Speed kills, ” and consider the law again!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10503	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10524	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I'm sure you'll let me join you. If a law that goes back on the basis of the Akademie Studiengesetz 1999 is now rated as one of too high speed and should therefore be resettled again, then I no longer understand the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean, we could even work a little faster, and I also think that much or all of this academic study law in 1999, which we negotiated and adopted with the SPÖ at the time – I was there – is now exactly what we are going to do. It finds it on the essential points that have already been raised by previous speakers. So: Education and further education for compulsory teachers – yes, that's good, we have a differentiated education system and differentiated teacher training. The AHS teachers and BHS teachers are trained in the Federal PIs and at the University, where they find their corresponding training courses, and the compulsory school teachers there. So don't worry where no one is. Kindergarten pedagogy: Kindergarten pedagogists are now being trained at the Bundesanstalt für Kindergartenpedagogik, and there is no absolute desire to become a university today at tomorrow. On the contrary, it is also about the fact that the existing staff cannot become university teachers from today to tomorrow. That would then be a sign exchange, that would be a prelude to skills that are not present. It is also not in international comparison that all kindergarten teachers are in direct use high school; the managers are. Therefore, the proposal, with the present proposal, to say in the new educational college: All those who have made a colleague after the Matura – and more and more – and then enter the kindergarten pedagogical profession could continue to be educated at this future educational college. Working groups are also active, there are also people with initiatives to develop such programmes. I am very confident that we are also going step by step. Another word on the PEK, on the Commission for Planning and Development and on its opinion: In fact, not enough research has been mentioned here at the moment. I also do not want the teachers of the Educational Academy to be forced from today to tomorrow to become university teachers and to be able to research from today to tomorrow. This is also a skill that they have to gradually acquire; neither is it a university teacher nor a researcher or a researcher by means of a sign exchange and an exchange of names. Let's give the teachers time there, then they'll do it, and then they'll do it. As far as the comments of the Chamber of Workers quoted here are concerned, I understand that they were critical. For under the pretext of the arbitrary partyity of the University Council, the SPÖ paper has included the requirement that there must necessarily be a workers' chamber representative inside. Would it have been more objective or fair if the worker chamber representative had been inside? – I leave you to judge. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the educational college is an evolutionary project! The university says yes and extends its hands to cooperation so that the permeability and transition can be further improved. I invite you to say yes to what is in place here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10593	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10615	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment on the comments made by my predecessor. In which I give their right, is: We are talking today about a subject of enormous importance. Especially the teacher's professional group – with what title it doesn't matter at the moment – has an influence on youth and its education, and this is a central concern of the Federal Government; that's what she says at least. That is why I really expect the highest precision and highest quality. They said that the first step was taken in 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] The second is now, 2006, and I now know why you are constantly making “thousands” laws: because the last will probably take place in 2099, with which we are then satisfied. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, no, don't worry!]] It can't be that something will take so long if something is important. They all know that the strongest social selection in access to higher education is about 14. ==References====External links==* Official website Here you have to do something to prevent this interface from continuing to Matura and providing us with transfer rates to the university, which are 20 percent below the OECD section. That is, our youth deserves – and that's not a stupid phrase now – the best education, the best teachers! Now I'm wondering, Why, then, is this law so imaginative and also unsuspecting that no major incentives and innovations are put in place? – Türschild policy has now been mentioned more often. It is a door sign policy, however, if I only change the name of the Educational Academy in the Educational College, otherwise de facto almost everything remains the same. Let's listen to what remains the same: Instruct the same people. The directors there have great opportunities to become the rectors there. There are no appeal commissions for professors working there such as at the university, there is no habilitation procedure – nothing! It also teaches people who do not have a baccalaureate or a bachelor. – Should be so when it comes to excellent practitioners and people with experience from everyday life. It can't be the goal, however, that people without graduation teach people to graduate. That seems strange to me. Then: Why a two-class society of teachers, if we know that the greatest accident, the greatest danger and the biggest “crime” – in goose feet – in the first section, that is, until 14. Year of life? – Maturants, high-level students are already a little more robust. – The teachers for the first section thus deserve adequate training. And if you say that everything is in accordance with EU law: In addition to Liechtenstein, we are the only European country satisfied with a six-semester Backalaureat for compulsory schooling. That's a fact. To find out, you just have to be able to read. And what does quality assurance mean? Either this is also a carnival joke or it is widespread if one should take it seriously, already rather assidious mood and would require to spread ash to the head: The University Council will be politically occupied. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] The University Council of Educational Universities consists of five members: three are appointed by the Ministry, one appointed by the head of state or the head of state and one is the head of the school council. And if you say that is the “creame de la creme” of research and science and university education, I tell them: At least this is rarely the case – to be polite. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The federal level will already be concerned about this!]] If research is still to be cost-neutral – that's what it stands inside – please explain to me where you can study magic so that research can become cost-neutral. The critics and critics are now being played down by you. The Planning and Evaluation Commission – this is a high-quality expert body. The Future Commission is a high-ranking expert body. The country's criticism, the rector's criticism, the criticism of the Council of Science are credible and something that needs to be considered. What also irritates me – I slowly come to the end of my remarks – is that the opinion of the trade union does not contain any education policy at all and only formulates business council interests. I would have liked to have a little more, a bit of a leaning on what workers' chamberers think, want and also plan. Finally, I would remind you that there is an application to make scholarships available at least to the students of educational universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This should be clarified in committee!]] I hope you will take at least a second step here – this is the debate today – after the small, tiny first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10715	Mrs Bleckmann spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10737	Mr President. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speech follows: Who else should be represented in the University Council of the Educational College according to their ideas? Who else should this be, except for experts appointed by the government and the country, as well as the Chief National School Council President? Do you, for example, call on all the national school council presidents to be able to sit in the university council for the educational colleges? These are those who are very active in this field. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: There are political occupations!]] They are also the ones chosen in this function and intended for them because of the electoral conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Are the political academies or educational universities?]] Somehow I don't understand the problem now, or do you just want the greens to be able to nominate someone in there? On the part of the government, experts are nominated there, and that is the important point, that it is experts who then sit in there. And in most cases, the President-in-Office of the Land School Council is very likely to be an expert in this field. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The national school council presidents are also politically determined!]] If you have experts, it's very good to nominate them in. – You should also make good alternative proposals and say who you would like to nominate in and in what function, except that someone will be nominated by your group on the part of the Greens. If you criticise the fact that now people are teaching people to get a degree, but they themselves have no graduation, I ask you: What should happen to all the teachers at the educational universities? Let's put them all on the street and say: No, you must first have a title so that you can teach others who will then receive a Bachelor!Unknown term type: "%s".? I really don't understand! Then how do you imagine that? It is logical that there must be a transitional phase here. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Come on!]] One will certainly not be able to exchange teachers from today to tomorrow, but those who prove themselves will certainly be able to continue teaching there, including those who have no title. This is probably not the nonplusultra that only those who have a title can teach. Well, I really don't understand. If Mr Muttonen says that she does not like this because the government is not important to extra-domestic care, I would like to point this out to the most decisive, because it is precisely because extra-domestic care is important to us, which is why the educational universities are particularly important to us. We pay particular attention to this because when the children are taken care of outside the house, it is very important that they are in good care that they are in good care. That's why we also see it as a possible good second or third step, the kindergarten pedagogues then perhaps with inclusion. However, if you have already seen that it has not worked in Germany, for example, it would be crazy to summarize educational universities as quickly as possible and continue to do so as quickly as possible by including other areas of which you do not even know how to include them and how to do so as a whole. It is good that you go one step after another, which enables us to maintain the quality, namely the quality for our children, because the people who are trained there teach and then teach our children. And that's why it's important to us and it's a big concern for us. Finally, I would like to remind the SPÖ colleagues once again: It was your decision in 1999, in which you said that you want to transform this whole area – together with the ÖVP, the then great coalition – that pedagogical school. Now this one will implement your wish – but you are in opposition, and at once everything you wanted and decided to have in 1999. You see how you turn in the wind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10829	The next item is Mr Rada's speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10851	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is already very interesting to follow this debate. Mrs Rossmann, if you think that it is a delaying tactic that the Federal Council has applied, I must say that in fact this law on educational universities was not delayed, but simply prevented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Zickzack!]] I am therefore glad that the Federal Council has made all these decisions, and also very glad that you, Mrs Minister, praise the work of national and primary school teachers so much, for it is indeed so: People's and primary school teachers are doing great things throughout Austria. It is all the more strange then that the teaching staff and primary school should not get the same university education as other teachers in this system. That is why this is a very legitimate opposition from the Federal Council. I also share perfectly Your opinion, Mrs Minister: Eight university locations are enough. However, there is still the question of what is added to private institutions. There are a wide range of approaches and statements. Do we want to create even more elitist educational colleges if this doesn't work with the Elite University in Maria Gugging, then perhaps we would have room for it? It would certainly be interesting how far the educational universities can actually carry out their tasks. Leave must be. All parents must be able to rely that their children receive the best possible training: from pre-school education to compulsory school to university. It cannot, however, be said that this is a priority if, with this university institution, we are actually creating a two-class system of teachers with this university institution. I do not want to go into the new title of future educators in advertising. The fact is that we will have two different groups of teachers. One more thing: I still have too little emphasis today on the fact that this educational college has a politically single-sided structure. Three higher education councils specified by the Ministry. – Perhaps even this year or next year I will be glad that you have created this opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - So three that come from the ministry. A member of the Council of State Schools and the President-in-Office. And because today the expertise of senior presidents has been doubted: I do not wish to call any of the President-in-Office's qualifications, but I know how President-in-Offices are appointed. Mrs. Minister! They have missed an excellent opportunity to establish a really good system of teacher training.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10902	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10924	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear colleagues! With the educational universities we implement the mission of the Academy Study Law. It has already been pointed out enough that this was decided in 1999 by a very broad political basis. In the absence of a committee report in the Federal Council, I have discussed the statements made by the colleagues who argue there. For example, in that of Mr Schimböck, member of the Federal Council, I found some remarkable sentences. Col. Schimböck criticizes the educational universities by blaming them that the school character of teacher training remains. I say: Thank God he is preserved! Anyone who deals with a little of the study plans of universities on the one hand and with educational universities or at present academies on the other, will find that there is a study plan density in the latter, which is not at all available at universities. Col. Dr. Grünewald meant that the merger of 51 institutes and academies at a total of 8 and 9 locations would only result in the exchange of door signs. I should like to point out that the high quality of teacher training, which my previous speaker also praised, is precisely at the educational academies that we are now bringing together for the first time training, training and training. This makes a lot of sense in research, vocational research, and is not just a financial question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to prove that this is not true with the training of the Sackgassen, as was also stated in the speech by the colleague of the SPÖ in the Federal Council, I refer only to § 10 of the Higher Education Act of 2005. In conclusion, I would like to point out that Dr. Peter Härtel – who is not less than the chairman of the evaluation and planning commission of the Academy Study Law – is carrying out today’s debate that it is considered very reasonable – he calls the “professionalisation continuum” – that we will continue the excellent training at the academies in the sense of the “professionalization continuum” also accordingly at the educational universities. I think that it is also possible to link thanks to compulsory school teachers in Austria for their high-quality work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10970	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e10991	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has been used by my colleague, Moser, to you today, with regard to the expression ‘balled incompetence’, and I think I can already ask the question here: Does it have to do with competence to use, for example, a Commission on the Future, as an answer to the PISA shock, whose proposals are not consistently implemented? I would also like to ask whether it has to do with competence if a planning and evaluation commission is set up in the design of the educational university, in which the official opinion stands – I quote here the official opinion of the PEK, which was also to be found briefly on the home page of the Ministry of Education; why it has then disappeared, you have to explain it to us; I quote now –: The current draft leaves the path taken by the Academy Study Act, is not EU-compliant in many details, does not meet the standards of a professional tertiary institution and therefore does not correspond to the information of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs based on the PEK activity reports to the National Council. - Quote. Mrs Brinek, Mr Neugebauer, who expressed your opinion on the PEK. I do not want to know how the ladies and gentlemen have been affected in the last few days, because they are suddenly not allowed to represent this official opinion. I am afraid that, on the part of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, we will again be able to adopt, in a more competent or incompetent manner, those opinions which are represented by bodies which she has used herself. Ladies and gentlemen! As a SPÖ, we are sure to reject this approach with regard to the subject matter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The university law itself, which you have now submitted and which the Federal Council rightly rejected, was not only rejected by the AK, but of course also by many, many others. I quote the Catholic family association, I quote the Austrian rector's conference, which noted that through the draft law the educational universities will not become university institutions, either in structural or qualitative terms. This is essentially a continuation of the status quo by the draft law. – A little less scientifically said, Mrs Bundesminister: The change in the door signs we have accused you of several times was only expressed differently here. We reject that, Mrs. Federal Minister! One last: You have often criticized the SPÖ education politicians in recent years, but you have always criticised them constructively. We have presented our own drafts for many, many areas in the school system and for their change. We have also presented our own draft for a university of education. And I note what my colleague Moser has already said: full incompetence on your part. We show that we can do differently. We offer a wealth of expertise and will soon replace you with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11041	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11064	Mr President. Highly esteemed and competent Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we experience a shine of the total opposition, the SPÖ zigzag course, the Gusenbauer SPÖ, and the blockade policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References== We decided on the Academy Study Act. The majority in the Federal Council has opposed it for political reasons, for purely party-political reasons. This had nothing to do with the representation of the federal states at all. And today we will just decide by means of a insistence decision. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ and the Greens, if you're having fun, then continue to enjoy yourself. – But we are chosen to work for Austria – and not to show political tricks! But that's your thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the content, ladies and gentlemen. It is questioned by all here the competence of many. You will admit to me, Mr Niederwieser, that you will admit to me that the directors of the educational academies are competent enough to judge today's law decision. You give me the right? - That's it. Today, three of them, namely those of Feldkirch, those of Linz and those of Vienna – and this is particularly interesting, for the Vienna, Mr. Manfred Teiner, is certainly not to be counted as the black, blue or orange, but rather the left half of the empire – have made a press release. And I mean, it's good to listen to this. “With today’s law,” they write, “Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerden takes the right course for the educational universities. This will ensure the academic training of all teachers for the future in Austria too, explained the directors of the Educational Academies in Feldkirch, Linz and“ – listen carefully! – “Vienna, Ivo Brunner, Hans Schachl and Manfred Teiner.” Finally, they write in this press release: “Whoever wants to qualify for the important development in teacher education as ‘turtaferl’ proves that he or she does not understand much about teacher education.” Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition clearly understands, if that is true, not much of the teacher training. This is the assessment of those who need to know, those directors of the Educational Academies, in future educational universities who have been concerned with it. At least take note of the judgment of this one if you do not believe the Minister and the Government. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] But because of your total opposition, all your fighters are getting away pretty slowly. This time it is the directors of the Educational Academies, including those who belong to your half of the empire, in Upper Austria it is the operational councils of AMAG, who no longer want to be held hostage by the total opposition, who leave in series because the party opinion of the union, which SPÖ is completely contrary to the opinion of the Works Council. At 93.5 percent, the AMAG staff voted against the prescribed SPÖ line, they quit in order, including former SPÖ country members. Keep going, ladies and gentlemen. You will achieve the success – from our point of view the success, your failure – in the next elections. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can still announce the Gusenbauer SPÖ election programme, so that everyone in Austria knows what it will look like: Power down, taxes up, We're buying debt, all have to be sheeted, Marx and Engels say hello!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11155	What a big truck without four-liners! The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11180	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to sum up briefly what Mr Großruck said: For us, the university law 2005 is a milestone for Austrian education policy. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The big truck didn't say that!]] We are thus continuing the path of professionalization and the improvement of teacher training. You stay on your path of fundamental opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Rada: You will have to get used to this!]] Unless you're unaware, but it's a shame, because it's an important topic. It's about our children, it's about our teachers, and there would be a little more willingness and commitment from your side very desirable. The fact is: Point 1: This model ensures the training at the academies, which are thus raised to the level of universities. It is, as Mrs Bundesminister said, an upgrading. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Title without means!]] Point 2: The permeability to the universities is given by the recognition of training. Point 3: We will further develop this model for the students, for the students, teachers, teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11247	The next speaker is Mrs Schefermair. 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11268	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! It was an interesting discussion, and Carina Felzmann has already summarized: On the one hand, it is an increase in professionalism, on the other hand, this decision is a huge advantage in terms of internationalisation for the creation and further development of the educational college. What benefit do we have from the fact that our teachers in other countries will be able to gain and work experience in the future? I am also pleased for the students that this experience the teachers have gained will then become their own. They also say that you all want the best possible training for our children, and this is also given again. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But you prevent it!]] Yes, exactly, you say we prevent, but in reality, it's your blockade you need to talk about. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Exactly! You're right! You're right!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] They also keep talking about the fact that we will reap it at the election. I tell you, the seed that you sow with this blockade, the really permanent blockade, you will also reap at the election, namely the voters will block you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: And you won't be there at all!]] I think – and it has already been said – that I would like to bring it back to completion, too – that the educational universities are pleased with this development. Mr Rada has spoken about leaving, I think we can talk about trust. We can trust this government in the field of education policy. Finally, I would like to thank all teachers and also the trainers for the good work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11346	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is no opposition there!]] First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Education in 1335 of the Supplements. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. [[Abg. Lentsch: ( towards Abg. Katharina, where are your people?]] The Committee submits the application, the original decision of the National Council of 7 December 1988. December 2005 concerning a Federal Law on the Organization of Educational Universities and their Studies (Hochschulegesetz 2005). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1336 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the committee's request to take note of its report 1337 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This sign is given unanimously. Adopted unanimously. [[14:07:12]] 6. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (1229, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Passgesetz 1992 and the Fees Act 1957 (1340 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the notification law (1341, e.g.) 8. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (1272, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second supplement to the European Convention of 20. April 1959 on legal assistance in criminal matters (1339 d.a.) 9. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (1194, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on the crossing of the border on tourist routes and on border crossing in particular cases (1338, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11427	We shall now proceed to points 6 to 9 of the agenda, on which we shall hold the debate under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His welcome time is 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11458	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's about something quite simple: Austria will finally receive a counterfeit passport or Austrian passports. What is the problem at present? – The Austrians have falsified passports. This is the reason why the Austrians should now get falsification-proof passports instead of falsifying passports, because there is quite rightly no indication to this day that we have a fake problem with the present falsification-safe passports. So the Federal Government is doing what it is known for, namely solving the problems only where they do not exist. And I would like to congratulate you on this on Ashandi Wednesday! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is now the difference between the old falsification-proof passport and the new falsification-proof passport? – The difference lies in the chip and in the digitalised passport photo. Again: In the new passport, a digitalised passport photo is stored on a chip that does not make this new passport more falsifying than its predecessor. In the Committee we asked the question: What do we need that for? – jobs She once before – that would be a piece that Claus Peymann had wonderfully staged – the Minister of the Interior is going to buy a refrigerator. It works like this: She looks at the fridge at home and says: This refrigerator works perfectly. It cools down to the ideal temperature and needs very, very little energy. What am I doing? I need to buy a new refrigerator. Of course, the Minister of the Interior is not going to buy a refrigerator with this reason, but with this reason she creates new passports. And now, wherever the Minister of the Interior is responsible, the reason must have some reason. There could be an objective reason, however, which will be denied, namely the creation of databases with biometric data across Europe and beyond Europe. Wherever government parties are addressed today, their representatives say: No, we don't think about setting up databases for biometric data. We do not think of storing the genome of the honourable Member silently. We do not think of storing the fingerprints of other EIA delegates, such as Mr Brinek, centrally in Brussels or Strasbourg. No, we don't think about it! But why do you want to process data like this – and the digitized passport photo is the first date of this kind – electronically and now once you save it on a chip? Despite the high security of counterfeiting of Austrian documents, why demand a biometric criterion after another? Why not only do we want to make digitalized photos by all people in Austria without any security gain, but also take fingerprints and, after the BZÖ and the Freedom Party, will the genomic data be stored by all Austrians, i.e. genetic data? [[Abg. Ellwall: Pilz is scared! He's afraid!]] Why do you want that? Why are international treaties and legislative proposals constantly being presented to us, in which the transfer of these data across borders is made possible in central databases? Further: Why not work to ensure that there is parliamentary control at European level, that there is real, functioning data protection, and once a border is drawn, which is clear: This is where the police investigation ends, and here the absolute protection of fundamental rights begins!Unknown term type: "%s".? Why is there so far no explanation by the Minister of the Interior, where this border is, which personal data of Austrians remain absolutely protected? We are about to negotiate the Prüm Treaty, the so-called Schengen III Treaty. This agreement was signed internationally last May behind the National Council's backs. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was informed of the following: We see, that was a mistake, we should have asked you before, but you have to ratify it now. – This Treaty is about to be ratified. What's inside? – Cross-border transmission of certain data from the genome; preventive data transfer, for example, when people participate in international political events. The whole thing is tarnished as an anti-rowdy paragraph for football games. However, on demand it turns out that, for example, an international trade union meeting would be equally affected by this Treaty and its destination and preventive data collection. All of this is contained in the so-called Prümer contract. And then I find one in the Committee on the Interior: For about a year there has been a new alliance between ÖVP, BZÖ, the Freedom Party and SPÖ on these issues – I do not understand why and above all address this question to the colleagues of the Socialist Group. Suddenly, there is a step in the right direction of four parties. The SPÖ only wants to change a little bit in the regulations of passports for children, but otherwise everyone agrees. Basic right degradation: Four-party consensus – Green on the other hand. Passgesetz, digitalisation, preparation of European databases – SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ, FPÖ, the largest coalition against fundamental rights protection. Fingerprints and so on, we know what's all about us. Since last February – and we will have to talk seriously about it with the SPÖ colleagues in all public – there is a political turn here. From the right of asylum, from fundamental rights, from human rights to data protection, to the protection of privacy, to issues of cultural policy, the SPÖ has suddenly changed sides politically, especially in the Committee on the Interior, but not only there. And I wonder why. Does a closer national election justify such a fundamental change of position? Would it not be useful for the opposition to try to represent a common position with the government as far as possible on fundamental legal issues? These are the questions to which today's debate will certainly not give an exhaustive answer, but it is important for me to make it clear to you for the first time today: We have, and I regret this, not only a problem with the government parties, but also, unfortunately, with a SPÖ that has entered into a silent coalition with them, on these fundamental issues of Austrian society, freedom, tolerance and civil and democratic fundamental rights. I hope this coalition won't last.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11505	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11527	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Peter Pilz, you have problems with your own personality. Your presentation of the new passport law here from this pult is really not comprehensible! [[Abg. Ollinger: This is already understandable!]] [[Abg. Sburny: This is even quite comprehensible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the new passport law is a building block through which Austria will again become a modern, safer and fitter step. Just the new passport, the new passport law is a step towards a higher forgery. I believe that everyone here in this House must take note of this and also support the fact that there will be a passport that is more falsifying than the previous one. Why is he more falsifying? – Through the memory chip, which is now pressed, and with a single light picture required, the first step towards a falsification-safe passport is on and on. The arguments that have always come back to us that the waiting period resulting from this new passport would not be acceptable are certainly not a debate, as this passport will be sent within five days; it is therefore sending in because the new passport must be made by public printing. There is also an express passport and an emergency passport if you need a passport immediately and in the short term. Generally speaking, there is hardly any change in the situation in the exhibition of a passport. You go with a passport photo to the exhibition authority, issue this passport photo there, disclose the personal data, and within five days the passport will be delivered. We are following a regulation of the European Union with this amendment. We welcome this requirement, because it will also make an important contribution to the fight against international crime, but we also welcome this new legislation because it will help us to use the technical means of protecting our people from criminal threats. One important point when amending the passport law is that travel passports can now also be issued for children. Up to now, passports had to be requested for persons under 12 years of age only if they were travelling alone or not accompanied by parents or a legal guardian. – That’s another step forward. In general, with this new passport Austria becomes more modern and secure.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11577	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11598	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! “With this law, Austria is becoming more modern and safer.” – I would like to challenge that right now following the remarks of colleagues Kößl vehementest! [[Abg. That's how it is!]] It might become more modern: It is now quite modern to measure everything biometrically. The eyes, the ears length, the face and everything possible is now measured. Biometry is truly modern. But modern, measured by what you connect with security aspects, it is not. It is not modern in the sense that it brings us forward, it may be “in”. The population should be informed by activity and, in part, by appearance activity, that there is a higher safety status or a safety gain. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Were the previous Bordeaux passports, which are machine-readable, unsafe? – You have never said that to this day! You never said: Dear citizens, we have extremely uncertain passports! The security of Austria is at stake, we need biometric data stored on a chip in the passport to make this country safer! – I never heard that! But now the passport novels are coming, and the data already available in the machine-readable European-standardised passport is stored on chips in the passport. Now I do not believe that the Austrian authorities have anything to do with the data protection idea, which I would not agree with, because I think a lot of the Austrian authorities, but I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you use a new EU passport containing a chip on which these data, i.e. biometric data can be stored or stored, to Syria, to China, to the USA or where to go, what happens to the data of Austrian citizens who travel for tourist reasons or for whatever reason. [[Abg. Großruck: In the USA you will be photographed!]] These data only need to be stored in databases, and then they are networked freshly. And it completely escapes the influence of our Lady Federal Minister, which happens with data on these chips of Austrian citizens in the USA, in China – I am now drawing on two large states and not even small so-called villain states. – These are our concerns, ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ – and this is actually the second sad thing – is happy with it. They do not share these concerns at all. They say: This fall are elections, and the concerns expressed in terms of data protection by the Data Protection Council, by the Data Protection Commission, by individual scientists working in this field are simply and simply ignored by those who are security experts. I can only give the SPÖ one along the way: The voters and voters who do not want their data stored in databases of the American CIA or in any organizations – the CIA is still an honorable organization – will present to you the invoice, from the ÖVP, let alone, because I did not expect anything else from the FBZÖ. That is why in this case I will be passionately voting against this new passport law, because it will not fulfil the very only purpose that has been formulated so far, namely to offer security gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11664	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 4 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11685	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Terezija Stoisits, you know very well that the revision of this passport law is the implementation of an EU regulation. This regulation was adopted in December 2004, and we simply have to comply with these requirements – as a member of the EU, it is not just a Treaty, but a right of existence. That's one. When we talk about the goals, I have to say the following: These objectives, which are set out in this new passport legislation, which has also been set out by the EU, include making the passports more falsifying in order to be better able to deal with international crime. This is about crime stocks, which cannot be taken lightly, such as tow and trafficking in human beings. The colleagues from the Greens have repeatedly pointed out that biometric data should now also be stored on chips or that the passport image should be digitized in the future. – It is not about fingerprints, it is not about Iris measurements, but simply about the digitization of data, which is already in the pass. I would like to mention once again the data to be stored so that the misunderstandings can finally be erased. The name of the passport holder, the gender, academic degree, date of birth, place of birth, citizenship, size, if any special markings, the light image and the signature of the document holder are to be saved. – What is new about it except that it is double legible in the future, i.e. that it is safer and that counterfeiting is difficult? Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Committee on the Interior have informed ourselves locally that we were in the Austrian state printing company and have looked at how the production of these passports should proceed in the future. We were not only enthusiastic about the friendly reception, but also about the more competent people who are responsible for it. These high-security creases can only be produced by one site in the future, and that is the Austrian state printing company. What was very important to me, however, in addition to the data protection aspects – my dear colleague, Teresa Stoisits – is that the Data Protection Council, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, has found a common solution, which is also evident in the opinion of the Data Protection Council. In fact, the Data Protection Council has no more objections to the decision of this new passport law, as it is now present. That is to say, there is also the agreement of the Data Protection Council. What is still very important to me personally is how this pass-over legislation affects the citizens. To do this, you can say: It is not a deterioration, it is partly even an improvement. The costs remain the same, for a new passport you have to pay 69 €. There is the possibility of children's passports, which also costs no more than the registration in a passport, namely 26 €. All of this is important so that people and parents with children do not suffer from hearing extra costs. So it was taken care of. Furthermore, the old passports are still valid, and that too, I believe, is something important. The last point is that, even if you have forgotten to get or extend the passport, emergency passports can be issued for children as well as adults. It can be claimed with fug and law that this law is civil-friendly. We from the Socialist Group agree with this law after all the negotiations we have conducted, because we believe it is in terms of security and civil kindness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11737	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11758	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What did Grossruck mean?]] I can't follow Mr Pilz's statement in this way. Mr Pilz has tried to present here that it was once again the idea of the Federal Government to make new passports, according to the motto: We don't think it's better! However, Mr Pilz knows very well that the truth does not correspond to the whole, because the European Union has given us that. This has already been discussed: In February 2004, it was decided that a biometric feature in passports is mandatory. The biometric feature is the pass image, which now occurs three times in the new pass: once as a photo, once burned in with a laser – if you hold it against the light, you recognize the photo – and in addition in a digital form. The European Union, however, continues its commitment, which we will then have to fulfil, which was adopted on 25 June. In October, a second biometric feature is to be recorded, and that is to be the fingerprint. We're not talking about this passus today. Now it's just about the passport picture. I don't know why my colleague Pilz is so afraid that a digital photo of him is in his passport. If he goes through the border control at any airport, he can be photographed as well, and you also have a passport photo. One could also photograph the photo contained in the pass. So I don't have these fears. Col. Wurm has still carried out which data is still stored on this chip in the pass, which is exactly the data you can read in the pass. How to do data abuse, someone has to explain it to me first. In my opinion, a very essential factor is the area of children. With this innovation and the introduction of this new passport, it is now finally possible to equip children with a passport that does not have biometric data. It is also important to note that this costs as much as registration. The entry has immense disadvantages: You have a passport, you have a name, you have no photo, you can't assign the child, and of course you also have the possibility to "bring" a child out of the way – under quotation marks. This cannot happen with an independent passport for the child. Of course one can say that a baby looks different after six, seven, eight, ten or twelve months, but a child aged four to five years is recognizable by the passport photo in the next five years. It is therefore also very important for the safety of the children that the Austrians benefit from the possibility to issue an independent passport for the children, because it ensures that the child is 100 percent identifiable by the photo, by the name of the child. And this also creates increased safety for our children and increased safety against possible wear and tear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11798	Mrs Prokop has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11819	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you for holding this discussion so intensively that so much desire for information has prevailed. I think this is very important, because the issues of data protection, the handling of biometric data, but also with security documents are a great obligation. I believe that this passport will become a truly worldwide document. He's even safer, and I want to stress that. Let's take an ice box as an example. Mr President, if an ice box works and there is a new model which is more energy efficient, and there is the Requirement that you have to save more energy, then you will buy the new model. That's not a question at all. Of course this is the same with this pass. The old, today's passport is safe, but we can still achieve improvements in the field of document counterfeiting. We can introduce even safer areas, and that happens with this new passport. It is also clear that, of course, the next necessary biometric measures adopted by the EU will be intensively informed as far as they are compulsory for us. We have commissioned a study to examine this in order to also have documents and documents to discuss what it is all about. We don't want utopian formulations that say that from the satellite you find everyone who has this pass in every place. I believe that this new passport can actually be used to say that it has succeeded in meeting the EU's requirements in good time, because by autumn we are obliged to introduce this passport under the EU Directive. So we did this not from Jux and Tollery, but out of great responsibility. We were able to keep the price, we have brought a real service character in spite of the difficulty with the welded chip in the new pass, and we can in fact offer new security. I also believe – and I am very grateful for this too – that an opposition does not have to be automatically opposed to what was required here. An opposition must assess what is necessary, and I am pleased that in this case we find such a broad majority, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11861	Mr Hornek has now spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11883	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The revitalisation of the Czech-Austrian border area through enhanced economic and cultural cooperation is one of the main demands of many cross-border initiatives and institutions in the border regions. The Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic have expressed their desire to facilitate the crossing of the common border in particular for tourist purposes. This border agreement makes it possible for many people to visit their neighboring communities in the Czech Republic for the first time after 60 years. Ladies and gentlemen! My whole youth was characterized by living on the outside of the Iron Curtain. For decades it was impossible for me to visit my father's birth and former residence on Czech soil, although it was only a few hundred meters from the Austrian border. The fall of the Iron Curtain and the reunification of Europe gave the citizens of the border regions this border and beyond the border the opportunity to shape the future together. Many joint projects have been developed in the course of cross-border impulse centres. One thing I would like to mention here in particular: It is the Greenway Prague–Vienna. This is a cycle path that now captivates 10,000 people, many kilometers away the former death-strip leads to the possibility of new, future-looking tourist facilities from former military installations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With the new border crossings, cycle paths are networked, new riding trails are created, cross-border cross-country cross-country cross-country trails are built, thematic paths are made possible and therefore more attractive for tourism in the border region. The signing of this important contract was done by our Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop and her Czech counterpart Mag. ==References====External links== Raabs Castle is a historic place. On the one hand, the German and Moravian Thayas are found in the close vicinity of the castle, and on the other hand, Raabs Austria Castle in the Czech Republic gives its name: Rakúzko – the Austrians; that means: the country south of Raabs Castle. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important contract for the inhabitants of the border region. Today, in the course of this discussion, we have also discussed many issues which are very important from a safety point of view. I am all the more surprised that there has been such a procedure in the previous Committee on the Interior, Mr Parnigoni, where, in the course of your presidency, you have, for my part, chosen a procedure which has threatened this decision-making today. It was necessary to make another meeting of the Committee on the Interior on Tuesday, the Fashing Tuesday, in order to avoid becoming sparse here and not endangering these important issues. I hope it was a unique carnival slot course. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11934	Mr Parnigoni is now speaking. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11955	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today there are not only the passport law, but two treaties with the Czech Republic, as well as a change to the notification law for the debate. I would like to point out that, unlike the Greens, the Social Democrats have been intensively involved in this matter. We have raised all our concerns in the area of the Data Protection Council. The Data Protection Council has therefore also made appropriate recommendations and they have been fully implemented in this innovation. In addition, we have considered the production of these passports in the Austrian state printing company, so we have really collected all the information that is necessary, have looked at this area of security and are therefore convinced that the Treaty with the European Union must be implemented. We shall therefore vote in favour. We do not want to be a total opposition or a frontal opposition like the Greens, but we will, of course, take meaningful action where necessary. - That's the first one. Ladies and gentlemen, second. If Mr Pilz has spoken about ‘bringing’, I may refer to the statements made by my predecessor. It is not true that the Social Democrats or the Chairperson of the Committee on the Interior do not benefit from the possibility of taking all business-regulation measures, for example when a member of the government makes public statements against the executive officials. I therefore believe that I can certainly not be imagined that in some way I already have some coalition requirements. I also think that Members, when it comes to important materials, when it comes to important issues, should also work on the carnival Tuesday. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: We had to!]] Mr Hornek, if you think otherwise, this is your business! – We are ready at any time to discuss and enforce important laws also on the carnival Tuesday. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that, of course, like Mr Hornek, the Treaty with the Czech Republic is very important to me, namely the one where police cooperation is concerned, where there are already a number of contracts with other countries. As a result, such a contract must also be concluded with Hungary and Italy, and consideration must be given to the language barriers which have already been discussed in the Committee. This means that the Ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister, also gives the officials appropriate support in learning the language. I also believe that the second treaty, which concerns facilitating tourism with the Czech Republic, is very important. I too live, like Mr Hornek, directly on the Czech border, and I am also marked by this life on a once dead border, and I am therefore very happy when we establish this treaty. The last five years were not particularly successful for the border regions, because the Federal Government has not been very supportive here. We hope, however, that this delay will give us a new impetus and that the border regions will be able to participate in it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e11992	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12013	Ladies and gentlemen! The ridicule of people and of certain situations by Mr Pilz is already part of the agenda, so to speak. Sometimes Mr Pilz is right, I would even say, but certainly not today. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Mandak]] As has already been pointed out, we are implementing an EU regulation by means of the passport law. We are obliged to implement this regulation; there is nothing else left to us. Why Mr Pilz has found that he has to make the whole thing ridiculous: The passport is not falsifying. At the time when it was introduced, it has been said that this is the new EU passport, which is safe from counterfeiting. But it has proved over time that the criminals have once again found methods to fake the passport. It is becoming more and more attractive to be in possession of an EU passport, and that is why criminals will be finding more and more to fake such a passport. We have just complied with this requirement in connection with the EU. Now I would like to say again to the audience – it has already been sounded, I just want to make it clear again –: On this chip in the new passport is exactly what is already in the passport inside. This is not new, not exciting, but the birth dates, the size and so on. That is, there is nothing dangerous in this new passport. It's just once again held on the chip. Mrs Stoisits said: What you do in China, in the USA with these data stored on the chip! – Nothing can be done there; because the passport is in Austria, in the hand of the one who owns the passport, and in China and in the USA, we will not be able to do anything with our data. So stop with this uncertainty and this fear-creating! If you blame the Greens of the SPÖ for agreeing, I would like to say: Exceptionally, the SPÖ is once ready for a reasonable handling because it knows that there is a risk that our passports will be faked. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Here you go! Too reasonable handling always!]] After all, it is not very often the case that the SPÖ is getting through to this realistic line, but today it is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Greens move completely in the area of the Irreal, and the SPÖ at least finds its way back to the real. From the Greens – this is really interesting! – is already seen in every state action a breach and a prohibited access to fundamental rights. I don't know how you get to these misguided ideas. People's mouth says: He sees G’spenster! – and it seems similar to you. You see in everything and everyone that an abuse with your data takes place within the framework of actions that set the authority. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I read when the general street lighting was introduced in Vienna under Metternich – there was no street lighting before – some have said: That's just why the Metternich can better spy us out! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] So the positive has not been seen, but only the negative. – You, Mrs Stoisits, Mr Pilz and the Greens as a whole, seem to me similar. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I personally would not mind if the fingerprint in the current passport were already inside, as is the case in many other countries. If you travel to the USA, you have to print your fingerprint there, your face will be measured biometrically. No one therefore waives a U.S. stay. I think it's really better, we control exactly when we get in than we have people with us whose entry we prefer to prevent. That is why we agree today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12084	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12105	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that one of the proposals under discussion today is the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on the crossing of the border on tourist routes. I am particularly pleased because, I believe, it is a good example of a relatively inconspicuous template, a contract which is to be approved, But with very great effects for the regions concerned and for the population, but above all for the mutual co-existence of these two countries. The case of the Iron Curtain is known to have been back more than 16 years – and: Even so far, there have been many contacts on both sides of the border. In many There is a very positive and constructive cooperation between the Czech Republic and Austria. Nevertheless, these contacts, including inter-human contacts, have been greatly impeded by the small number of border crossings. It is therefore important that this Treaty now provides for the possibility of setting up further border crossings, especially for tourist purposes, which do not have to be constantly monitored, thereby promoting cooperation on both sides of the border. I am particularly pleased about this, ladies and gentlemen, because, in my nearer surroundings, in the Hollabrun district, with three projects already waiting urgently for a realization, namely in Felling, in Mitterretzbach and in Seefeld-Kadolz. With the approval of this State Treaty today, it will be possible to establish these important crossings before the summer season. Many thanks to Mrs Prokop, especially the negotiators from your home, for the constructive negotiations and for the fact that we can adopt this important legislative proposal here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12145	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12166	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying the following: If a government template is in the interests of citizens, the SPÖ is always there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, if we see that you are acting against the interests of citizens, we will never vote with you! That is clearly said, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a few things here today on the part of the Interior, and I am glad that Mrs Federal Minister Prokop has clarified a lot about this because, of course, detailed information on matters is of enormous importance. If you didn't think this was important, you could get the impression that you only look at this surface. And if we look at something in detail, Mrs. Minister, we usually come to a conclusion. For this template: There too, the SPÖ Group, in the interests of citizens, but also of the communities, will agree because it will repair something, ladies and gentlemen. I should just like to remind you that we have repeatedly pointed out from the SPÖ in the plenary debate, but also in the Committee on the consideration of the paper on the notification law, that there is a matter of law to be dealt with. In this context, for example, I should just like to remind you of the issue of data protection relevant to the other data subjects under the Reporting Act. I hope this is really clear now, Mrs. Minister. In any case, we will then see what answers we will get in the next days or weeks. By the way, all the municipal mandates should always have been in a boat, because there is always more work for the communities. Therefore, please add more money to the communities, for for example, the computer facilities have paid us no one has paid – and they have not given it to us either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We in the communities are doing this for the citizens, only the Federation is making it easy, Mr. Colleague. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] At the time – I can remember very well – we have discussed these questions, and we from the SPÖ have shown that in the communities we can no longer even issue a report to the citizens. What do our people in the communities do? [[Call the ÖVP:Citizen service!]] – That’s why we said: No matter how it happened, we are generous, ladies and gentlemen, and we will vote in favour of our citizens coming back to the community.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12234	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12255	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Committee on the Interior, the generosity of SPÖ today on Ashindi Wednesday is so unique, so I would like to make the following request to the Passgesetz: [[in the direction of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Quoted print version removed]] As a border representative of the Security Directorate of Upper Austria, however, I would also like to allow myself to address something that has not yet been addressed here today, namely the police agreement with the Czech Republic. I think that this police cooperation with the Czech police colleagues is particularly important in view of the fact that ten EU acceding countries will probably soon reach Schengen maturity. It is also particularly important that the police equipment, that the tasks of the individual colleagues in the border regions by means of hospitalization, by mutual exchange of information, by mutual recognition, should be taken into account. study, by mutual knowledge of the service system, so to speak, to limit it to each other. This will be possible through this police agreement, which we will decide today. Another word in the direction of the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, in the direction of Mr Parnigoni: The interruption at that time was really pointless, was objectively unfounded – and arbitrary exercise of power on your part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Therefore, there is certainly no intrusion with the SPÖ, nor in the Committee on the Interior with the Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12325	The amendment tabled by Mr Kapeller, by Mr Kößl, Dr Partik-Pablé, ladies and gentlemen, to the Reporting Act is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mrs Pepper. Three minutes, Mrs. Colleague. After that, I will interrupt these negotiations in order to deal with the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12350	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear former Members of Elementary Insurance, welcome here in Parliament! [[direction Visitor Gallery]] [[Visitors at the gallery waver to the speaker.]] Although today's discussion has already been made about it, I may repeat: The European Union has adopted the Council Regulation of 13 December 1990 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products. December 2004 standards for safety features and biometric data are established in passports issued by Member States. With uniform safety standards, increased protection against counterfeiting is to be achieved. These safety standards are not yet fully adapted to international requirements and requirements. This is now a first step; the necessary legal regulations need to be extended. The aim is to adapt the Austrian legal situation to the new European and international requirements – i.e. to combat terrorism effectively and to support the fight against cross-border, organised crime – in order to bring about a barrier to trafficking in human beings and tow – and above all, as mentioned, the security of counterfeiting of passports. The implementation of the new passports will be carried out by autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! Interesting was the visit of the group of the SPÖ-innencommittee in the Austrian state printing company, including in the high-security contract, where these new passports will be produced in the future; of course, we could only look through a window. Perhaps a small disadvantage in the exhibition of these passports is the waiting period of five days. The pass is then sent to the person seeking the exhibition of a new passport by means of RSB writings. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are aware of the great importance and the need for this change in law, we will give it our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12402	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 to 9 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:45]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture on ‘Elite-Universität Maria Gugging: eine Scherbenhaufen’ (4019/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12434	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4019/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12619	I give Mr Van der Bellen as the first questioner to justify the urgent question, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e12640	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was once a professor who wanted to do something good – not for himself, but for renewable generations of young scientists, young researchers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He wanted to be vice chancellor!]] That is, he wanted to at least give some of them – a small part of them – the opportunity to work and research as it is possible at a few research sites in the world – mainly in the USA, Canada, Israel and still in some other countries. This professor soon found some colleagues at the university who were similarly motivated and thought similarly, and they have set up a kind of proponent committee for their ideas. Then everything started to go wrong without the fact that these university people could or did not have to notice it at the same time – after all, they are not politicians. It began to go wrong when Federal Minister Gehrer and Federal Chancellor Schüssel began to be interested in the ideas of these professors – or did Professor Zeilinger and his colleagues believe. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But that's your variation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's why he turned to you!]] He is not a politician, nor is he a specialist in political marketing, and above all he thinks in other time dimensions. Mr President, I should like to thank Before you believe that Professor Seilinger is a good buddy of mine, I would like to tell you: I don't even know Professor Seilinger. I might have shook his hand at a reception. - That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Why do you know the details?]] Such professors think in other time dimensions. The planning of top-level research and the institutions and institutions necessary to do so are less than ten to 15 years old, which makes no sense at all. Top-level research also costs money. Thirdly, it is crucial for the reputation of research and researchers personally that they are independent, regardless of external interventions. Heilinger himself has this in some interviews and guest comments, such as in the “Presse” of 4. February, very clearly and clearly. The principle of number one for such research institutions is – in English, because it is an international paper –: “Independence in organization, management, recruiting, finances; no influence whatever by politics, industries, sponsors on the decisions (...).” – Independent from the funding institutions, whether the federal government, the country, the industrial association, whoever, independence in the organization of such institutions, in recruiting – that is, in finding the staff – and so on, otherwise it doesn’t work, otherwise it won’t work. A politician – especially an ÖVP politician – thinks quite differently here. This is important for what label we find for this institution and how we can sell it politically, for example as a world class university, as an elite university, as a university of excellence. – That’s not all invented, all these were the adverbs, the adjectives of the last year and this year. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why do you submit...?]] As far as independence is concerned, “we” – I speak here for the ÖVP – of course on paper – are sure! – but in the case of serious matters, the good Austrian principle still applies: Whoever pays, make it! – You have proved that in the meantime. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Already the name of this institution, the label under which this could be sold at first and partly until today – the "Eliteuniversität" – was devastating, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Großruck: Do you agree when we call it "Van-der-Belen-Universität"?]] I do not know whether the professors are completely innocent of this, at least they are not experts in political marketing, but in physics, chemistry, mathematics and so on. Why is this devastating? – Because the existing universities and the people working there naturally thought: Aha, there the University of Elite, there the greats of mind are working, and we, the Deppen, must see how we are moving on! The second problem was that the impression arose, this elite university gets the money, and the existing universities have to look at how they cope with the existing restrictions. At least at the same time as the idea of this international research institute, a credible long-term programme with regard to funding and development in teaching and research should have been guaranteed to universities. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The bad irony in this case was that Seilinger's idea or the ideas of this team of professors were never aimed at a university in the traditional sense – that was never the case! – but for a limited part of natural sciences – physics, mathematics, especially chemistry, biology, computer science – a range of teaching and research should be developed. In teaching there should be no full program, but only one for doctoral students, for PhD students. This is not a university in the national sense, but a research institute – a top research institute when it attracts the relevant people and receives the appropriate funding. According to these ideas, many months have gone into the country, and negotiations have taken place between the Ministry and the committee concerned. To date, however, there is no in-depth approach to this research institution, nor is it clear how the existing universities are integrated and integrated. It is also totally unclear, above all, how the independence of this institution is guaranteed. But one thing happened: The site question was addressed. The issue of location is important, but that politics – in the form of Minister Gehrer and Federal Chancellor Schüssel – had preferred this question, our scientists should have made it nervous. But they're not politicians. Maybe they were nervous. The issue of location is something quite different for a typical ÖVP politician than for a researcher. That's what we're talking about. When will the tape cut? When can I put up a poster that hundreds of ghosts work here? When can I give a speech at the opening? Do I come to the “ZiB 1” and the “ZiB 2 ”? And all this before the National Council election! – These are good criteria for a politician – for a researcher this looks completely different. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: The Greens are very medienscheu!]] There were also clear criteria for decision-making for the assessors involved. However, I do not think they were understood by Minister Gehrer and the ÖVP. If, for example, there is talk of the possibility of campusing, then it is not – at least not primarily – that appropriate spaces should be provided for the teaching and research and corresponding rooms and apartments for the people working there, but it is about the architecture of the whole, about the communication possibilities. It is about whether this location is suitable for scientific exchange on foot, whether it is easily possible to reach existing universities et cetera. The fact is that our professors, in the paper of 24. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You might have had to say it even more clearly so that it is understood by representatives of the EIA. An error in choosing the location is almost uncorrectable, it says last. Prior to this, it is argued why Maria Gugging is such a misconception in the choice of location. The result was accordingly: A week later, Minister Gehrer and Federal Chancellor Schüssel decreed: All right, Gugging's gonna be it. This is the location for this top research institution, which is planned there. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is the best location!]] Accordingly, Professors Anton Seilinger, Arnold Schmidt and Peter Schuster left the committee and announced their cooperation, and even Sigurd Höllinger, who was responsible for the organization of the whole, left the committee. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Would you go to Gugging?]] Since then – since the beginning of February of this year – the pile has been complete. That's not how you do an international research institution! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why not? – Our professors recognized late, but still the following: The important decisions are taken in the serious case of Federal Chancellor Schüssel, Minister Gehrer and Landeshaufmann Pröll. The committed scientists and researchers serve only as a fig leaf for such decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Please go!]] The question of the location is only the head of the iceberg, Mr Colleague of the ÖVP! It's not just about the location: Whoever passes through the site today through political decisions will poke in and cross tomorrow at personnel decisions, and the day after tomorrow he will interfere in the research orientation of this institute and intervene accordingly. [[Abg. May. Molterer: As the Schelm thinks, so he speaks! Is that what you're gonna do?]] Under such circumstances, a research institute, which is internationally oriented, which uses international standards for itself, is unthinkable. – That is not how it will be, Mr Molterer, and that is the way it can be! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have violated the central condition not only of Professor Seilinger, but of any committed researcher in this context, namely the independence of the lenders. If this condition is not met, you can lubricate this research institution somewhere until the National Council election. This is not going to be an internationally recognizable institution. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They have just shown – I am waiting for a small article in the “economist”, more probably not worth it – how not to promote excellent research. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You will be deceived, Mr. Van der Bellen! You're not lying right!]] Look, if only the Federal Government would make fun of it, then I would, as I should say, kindly smile back in my chair. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have a chair?]] But it is not only the Austrian Federal Government that makes itself ridiculous here. Austria itself is equally affected by this stillbirth. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say this and speak it openly, where Professor Seilinger has never found the words I use here. – This is obviously a very polite person. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's a smart man! A good man!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: A failed man!]] – That he is a very good, smart man, I think he needs to not let you confirm him, Mr Molterer! He's playing in a different category than you or me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if this criticism is expressed openly, it is obviously a majestic policy for some EIA politicians. Head of State Pröll was questioned in the “Report” and – I believe – also in the “press hour” in this context, and the words he found are really remarkable. “Winkly Professor, ” I take away the “Standard” of 9. In February, it was still the most polite formulation that Erwin Pröll found in the Gugging Gezern for Anton Seilinger. Then he said that in order to build up the Elite University, it just needed “implementation, competent, reliable people”, with a word – I quote –: ‘He thus stamped liners as an incompetent, unreliable preventer, whose arguments against gugging he shuddered in the ORF- ‘report’ simply ‘stupid’.’ [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Ellwall: Your interpretation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is a strange interpretation!]] These are literal quotations! What does “no” mean here? – Well, let’s get the protocol if it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, I didn't hear that!]] The author writes in this article that a conflicting scientist is simply to be ridiculed. What does this mean by arrogant scientist? – He drew the consensus that the EIA policy obviously did not allow him to do what was the goal of the whole. [[Abg. Ellmauer: You need to discuss this with the author!]] As a matter of fact, if the situation were not so serious, it could be a joke about this whole thing. A few anecdotes I've listed, and the time allows me to bring them. – Today I am unusually fast. [[Call to the ÖVP: There is nothing to explain!]] A few anecdotes to the seriousness of the situation: Federal Chancellor Schüssel, for example, says, so I take away the media, you need fourteen minutes from the city of Vienna to Gugging. [[Abg. Oils: With the plane! With the helicopter!]] – It has been tested: The fastest way by public transport takes one hour, but state captain Pröll thought it would take not 14 minutes, but 13 minutes. Probably both assumed that Professor Seilinger could take them from Ballhausplatz to Gugging. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: At tempo 160!]] A Lower Austrian local politician says that even the famous Harvard University was away from the big cities. – Maybe we should get him a flight to Boston. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: As far as you know that stop in Lower Austria! Right up to the subway station!]] In the “standard ” a facsimile of a bill was printed, which is not supposed to exist at all. – There is no such draft law as the Wittgenstein Institute of Technology, which was so misrepresented at that time, Mr. Molterer, but he was printed there. Federal Minister Gehrer said that the paper was not from her. – So it wasn't from us either! We didn't make a bill for Wittgenstein Institute of Technology. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We believe that right away!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you have against Wittgenstein?]] In addition, she says she has nothing to do with the name Wittgenstein. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That might be true, because it is supposed that the idea of Chancellor Schüssel was to make a recognized philosopher the patron of a physics and chemistry institute. Did I miss anything else? – Yes, that’s good too: Chief of State Pröll said in September 2006 – this is this year, ladies and gentlemen! – the first offices will be functional. So I have always imagined an elite university or an international research institute: that there are the first offices there, in the Landesnervenheilanstalt Gugging. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: A little more serious!]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is cheap!]] - That's cheap, yes. [[Abg. Murauer: If the Greens without office...!]] It's just the question of what you call cheap: Do you want to renovate Gugging, or do you want to make an international research institute? – That’s the question! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that soon there will be the first functional offices. There's a desk inside and a phone, and I hope the windows are closed. But that's just the cartoon of an international research institute! Where, then, when the reputation is ruined, will you bring these international researchers back? Do you have the idea that these are anyway unemployed in the street and therefore easily adjustable? What are you doing? Is that not an interesting, serious project, and do you lurk it in this way? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the consequence of this debacle can only be: Back to the start! Let's get ourselves a new thought break, and it can't take a week, it must take months. [[Abg. Murauer: We are not with the Greens!]] Let's see how we get out of the mud cell despite this debacle. Getting away with having to necessarily decide a law before the National Council election so that any federal or Lower Austrian politician can cut a band. The good thing about this discussion is: There have not only been cabaret statements, as I should say. There has also been a meaningful discussion on the question of how to create a serious, internationally competitive research institute in Austria, at least in the field of natural sciences. – You have to say “created” because this is a creative thing, not just a matter of law paragraphs. For example, Barry Dickson, the new head of the Research Institute for Molecular Pathology in Vienna, wrote a very interesting comment in the “Standard” today, as one comes out of the Schlamassel – on the one hand, the proposals of Sailingr, Schmidt, Schuster and so on, on the other, as far as this international institution is concerned, but also by certain measures ensuring that these young scientists can actually be connected and integrated at Austrian universities, so that the best can be found out for both institutions – so to speak, the non-university research landscape on the one hand, and the existing universities on the other. I find that really interesting, but in the way you have done it so far, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it will never be anything – not 2006 and not later!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13190	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrer spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13214	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank the Green Opposition Party for the opportunity to discuss this Institute of Science and Technology in Austria today. I very much hope that this discussion will be an in-depth, technical discussion based on the development that has existed so far. I would therefore first like to show how it has developed in recent months. I also answer questions 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 15 and 16. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zeilinger was born on 29 October. October 2003 demands that a University of Excellence be established in Austria; this was translated “Elite University” – no one has contradicted it, not the professors who have introduced it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] This University of Excellence was then consulted in various bodies. Various workshops have been made. This institution of a University of Excellence was expressly welcomed by the Industrial Association and pledged support. Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking Mr Van der Bellen for what you have said. You talked about Hasten, about hurry. I strongly note: Mr. Zeilinger was born on 28 May. September 2004 at a workshop of the Industrial Union said: What I don't want is a wise-tender feasibility study, et cetera. If this is not decided within one year, I take note of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, that was the requirement made by the professors: If such a decision is made, it must fall quickly. Professor Seilinger has, of his own initiative, approached the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to whom Mr Finanzminister has approached. Professor Seilinger presented this idea very intensively and impressed many people with the idea that this University of Excellence should be founded – and then quite quickly the realization that it is better to say that an Institute of Excellence is to be founded – that this is something quite important. Something important at a time when the European Union wants to reach the Lisbon objectives in which it wants to be more competitive, in which we enter the knowledge society in which the European Union intends to set up a European Institute of Technology as a high-performance research institute. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, Austria has made so many efforts in the field of research – the research rate has been increased, much more funds have been made available – that it is really an important step to participate in this establishment of a top research institute. We have established numerous top research institutes in recent years, and we also receive them. Then how'd it go on? – A working group was set up – Professor Seilinger supported this – and international and national experts were gathered. And in January 2005, this working group started work. The proposal of the working group – not at all my proposal! – it was to decide first the location question, to clarify the financial aspects and then to go into the content, into the law, into further implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! It was also the statement of the scientists who are very practical, by the way, Professor Van der Bellen, that I can calm you – if I draw the turnaround from your statements, then I have to say that the scientists are foreign theorists, because you always say that they are only scientists, only professors; they are very practically concerned and know very well what an Institute of Excellence needs, namely a campus and money – that they want to make an objective decision for a campus that they want the federal states to enter into a competition and offer different locations. That was the idea of these working groups. They also wanted policy to provide the necessary money. So two tasks have been given by the scientists: first, implement the objective campus decision and, secondly, create the necessary money. As a result, there were many planning sessions, many meetings. The working group has suggested to me that there should be objective investigations into the locations that offer the site. The CHE was invited to prepare the general report for McKinsey. This scientist working group, the so-called core team with Professor Zeilinger at the top, has also set a precise schedule, a schedule according to which the location decision will be taken in December 2005 – that is not my case! – and then in January the bill is to be introduced into the National Council and then the law is to be passed. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The right one!]] It has also said that, in the meantime, policies still have financial resources to be provided. Interestingly, then, this has changed and extended, and somehow no one wanted to do with these opinions, which I finally paid, because according to the scientist's statement, I have to take care of the money... – Yes, but I have to achieve that that is provided by the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen, of course nothing comes! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The taxpayers!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We then had a number of intensive discussions, and in these intensive discussions the professors said that we still have to get further improvements, remedial improvements from Vienna, it is not yet clear that we must do this and that. – That has always gone on. At some point I said: Your schedule is completely out of the row! I've got it on Sunday, 29. Janen, invited to a meeting – Professor Seilinger, Professor Schuster, Professor Schmidt, representatives of the Industrial Union and I were there. We have discussed seriously, and I have always asked: What is the result of the objective assessment by McKinsey? McKinsey has brought together the opinion of the CHE and the opinion of the Space Planning Institute. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I got this leaf back and forth after a long time, and the core group then explained to me: [[the speaker shows it]] We have established four criteria: Criterion of scientific profile, criterion general location profile, criterion real estate offer and criterion financing offer. And despite all the improvements that have been made, it is clear from this magazine that Klosterneuburg is making the best offer, both in terms of the campus and in terms of opportunities to start quickly, as far as funding is concerned, and in terms of the possibilities to implement future expansion plans. Ladies and gentlemen! A result was then signed by the professors – everyone could have gone. With me all the doors are open, everyone can go out, but anyone who wants to join again can come in if he wants. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] It was then signed in agreement: “The discussions have dealt with the most recent offers, namely those of the city of Vienna/Aspern and Klosterneuburg/Niederösterreich. After intensive consultations and intensive exchange of all arguments, the core team's science group supports the Klosterneuburg site by a large majority, although in a more than 10 years' development perspective of the Aspern site, a wider development potential could be offered.” – So if you think more than ten years ahead. That was the opinion. It goes on to say: "On the basis of the financial contribution from Lower Austria, the Aspern project is more than 40 million in the 10-year view. € exceeds, the possibility of faster availability and the opportunity to expand, from today’s point of view, has become the majority of the participants in the meeting with full support of this project – I repeat: “with full support of this project”! – “... for the location Niederösterreich. It is considered essential that transport links – which are regarded as disadvantages today – be significantly improved between the proposed location of the institution and Vienna.” – Signed by Professor Arnold Schmidt, who voted against; signed by Professor Seilinger, who voted in favour; signed by Professor Schuster, who voted in favour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one was pushed! The only thing that really mattered to me was that we made an objective decision. And if the objective decision for Vienna had been taken, then the objective decision for Vienna would have failed. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] And if it had been for Graz, it would have been for Graz. This is what I have called for from the core team, from the professor team: an objective decision. That is why I have also spent €220 000 on these investigations in order to obtain an objective basis for decision-making. That is to say, the core team has given the mandate, which is the objective basis for decision-making, on the basis of which it has been decided. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, in such an important matter – you all have the right to say that this is an important matter – we cannot run in the zigzag course, as you will sometimes like to do. We should act in a straightforward manner and, on the basis of the decisions we have, we should also make straightforward decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This has happened, on the basis of this objective decision, on the basis of this agreement our decision on the location has been made. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions 4 and 5: “What international institutions... served as a model for you...?” – I answer with Professor Zeilinger, with what is said in his paper: The Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, the Weizmann Institute in Israel, which I looked at myself, the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in California, the Basel Institute of Immunology. All these are institutes, which have been separated from existing structures. – I also answered questions 4 and 5. On question 6: If Mr. Landeshaupt Pröll says that soon excavators will rise, then it is likely that apartments will be adapted, that student apartments will be provided and that there will be planning possibilities for networking for planning work, for construction work. And that will be made available. Ladies and gentlemen! I fully agree with Professor Seilinger and his paper on this matter: It will take two years for the first scientific group to work there, because we have to win it, we have to create the conditions for it. We want to start today so that in two years we will have the first young scientists there – and not in a year, which would make everything even more moving out. Professor Seilinger also writes in his paper that we will have a full expansion after about ten years. I fully agree with that, and so is the whole project. Now I summarize the questions 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13, these are questions about the further procedure, you ask what will be done further. – I note that we are working on the draft law, just as the core team has planned. I believe that an initiative proposal will also be submitted today – according to the ideas of the core team. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where's the core team?]] The independence, independence, self-government, all these questions are included in the draft law of Professor Seilinger. They've drawn up a bill. I say to you: The core team has fulfilled its mission, has carried out its tasks, including Mr. Höllinger. Mr Höllinger continues to work, he's in retirement, he has a job to do something further, because he likes to do it, he's done his job. And if you ask me who was the draft law that was published there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny]] He was prepared by Mr. Höllinger. I don't know how he got into the press. - He wasn't from me! In any case, I can say the following: We're working very target-oriented. The draft law, as far as I know, is being tabled today as an initiative proposal. The second is that we have negotiated the Article 15a agreement with the country of Lower Austria most intensively. In the draft of the core team, we will need about €400 million in ten years for the operation and all that. – I will tell you the following: We have so far negotiated so well that we will even exceed this sum of the core team. So we meet all the conditions that Professor Seilinger has formulated with his team in his documents. I think that's a good way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, questions 11, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22: I ask you to understand this, but I must say: These questions must be answered only when the law is decided and the implementation is made. The bill contains how this Institute of Science and Technology is to work, it is established independence. The Article 15a Agreement sets out the financing. I mean, we really have a very, very good basis, as we can actually implement this Institute of Excellence. In question 23, you ask if there are further excellence measures. – Those who have really observed the research landscape in recent years have seen the Austrian Federal Government investing in excellence. I remember IMBA, the Institute of Molecular Biotechnology. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Before your time!]] I remember the Institute of Quantum Optics. I remember CeMM, the Molecular Medicine Center. [[Abg. Broukal: That was Minister One, if I remember correctly, not you!]] The Council for Research and Technology Development is preparing a programme of excellence for universities. I remember RICAM, an Institute of Excellence for Mathematics. Of course, there are many possibilities. These existing institutes are well supported, they have never received as much funding as they have in recent years, they have never been as advanced as they have in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to questions 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, where They mainly follow the development of universities and academics: I would like to repeat: From 1995 to 2003, the academic quota increased from 8 to 15 percent. But with the academic quota, not the graduates of the university, but the academics who work in the work process in Austria are captured. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We know!]] Second: The universities receive secure funds, Professor Van der Bellen. I would really ask you to accept that. The universities receive an increase of €525 million in their global budget for 2007, 2008 and 2009. No one seems to know at all how much money that actually is. [[Abg. Broukal: That's wrong! It's 170 million a year!]] You have required €100 million as an emergency measure – we provide €525 million, ladies and gentlemen, and €500 million for the expansion of universities. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] We agreed in writing! We have also achieved that there is no commitment to these funds. I mean, the universities have been very well equipped in the budget. We will also provide the FWF with more resources to ensure free competition between the future Institute of Science and Technology and the universities. We have increasing student numbers, increasing beginners, we have increasing graduates. Ladies and gentlemen! The universities are developing well. To sum up, I would like to say: Austria is on the path to the promotion of excellence, has come to an enormous extent in the field of research. We have increased the research rate, the money we spend, from 1.88 percent to 2.35 percent. We have taken a huge step. We have young researchers, we have well-trained scientists and scientists. And with this Institute of Science and Technology, which will have a very good campus, a very good law and a very good financial equipment, we give many young researchers the opportunity to work in a great institute, to research, to work with great scientists. [[Abg. Sburny: Which one?]] Finally, I have a request: I ask you to support You will have these aspirations for excellence in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13465	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr Grünewald. 10 minutes required and legal speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13493	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! High house! Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer, you are now doing something very dangerous in my eyes: Seilinger is a university professor, a promoter of the idea, idealist – and you are the responsible minister. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] That's a big difference. Maybe it's good for Seilinger not to be a politician, because he's allowed to say publicly that he's been wrong in politics, he's been fooled, he's been thinking differently. You don't seem to be allowed to say that. That's where the whole problem starts. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He never said that he was deceived!]] To say it quite clearly: “Elite” is not an old revolutionary concept of struggle, but it is not a moral concept either. There are also elites of power, elites of birth – that is, the nobility, it is – and many others. These have something to do with good and evil, but must not be judged morally. If we prefer to talk about excellence and outstanding achievements, there is not the cuddly dome, which is partly caused by ideological overload. But excellence, talents and outstanding achievements, Mrs. Minister, you know that – you were at a pedagogical academy or even the so-called MuPäd or LBA at that time – they do not fall from heaven, they are not laid in the cradle that belongs promoted. And there's the second big mistake: Excellence does not fall like a star snoop from the sky, and I cannot say that Pröll stands before star-clear black night sky, a star sniff comes, and there he may wish for something. I wish you an elite. And the star's sniff is grinning. And what's there? – Three exponents, all of which have been excreted for reasons. Don't register that. They say they said that. They believed in something and cheated. Star sniffs alone do not make any excellence. The issue of location – our current topic – is an important question. The second question is: Do we need an Institute of Excellence – yes or no – or are there other priorities? I wonder what priority comes first? I'll get to the location. What are the priorities of Austrian research policy? And if we can agree that this is the chance of excellence, the opportunity to really bring talents into international competitiveness, so to speak, which they leave on the front line, then most say that a broad, well-founded and high-quality training is the ideal prerequisite for getting statistically higher proportions of so-called top people. This is a statistically simple problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then I wonder, Are the priorities set correctly now? – You can argue about that. For some, it seems almost frivolous to talk about centres of excellence as long as 15,000 students leave school who cannot read meaningfully. Some people also find it amusing to talk about an Institute of Excellence and its funding if 75 percent of the Austrian Research Fund does not allow for an international reviewer and as an excellent and prioritized research project, because he lacks the money for it. Do you know how much you are destroying in the hope of young talent, but also of older and established scientists, how much months it takes to write the appropriate applications, then to hear, you were excellent, you were high-priority, as worthy of funding, but that doesn't happen in Austria! For me, that means cutting the horse at the tail. There are also infrastructural defects, defects in basic equipment, equipment, appliances, partly decolate buildings. Mrs Gehrer, you're saying what the colleges get. – 500 million euros to be distributed by you from 2007 onwards. You know what they serve for. – They serve to restore 20 percent of priority projects, where workers' protection regulations at universities cannot even be guaranteed on grounds of structural deficiencies, so that people can work there that a laboratory can be locked there. This primarily does not serve the excellence, that is international standard and on and for itself something quite reasonable. And if these people who are suffering from this lack – there are good things too, universities are not just desolat, I don't say – hear that in the final development of this Excellence Institute, an annual budget of about 70 to 80 million euros will have – that is in line with the budget of the entire University of Salzburg or the entire University of Linz – then they wonder if these funds are really targeted, reasonable and sustainable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] All right, you can decide differently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, I have the impression that you believe – and this is a great mistake, and that believes Seilinger and other exponents, even many of us – that research can be decreed from above, so to speak, into the meadow or elsewhere. It rarely works internationally. You have now called institutes and mentioned earlier, there were Berkeley, Princeton, Yale, Harvard, Stanford, MIT. Yes, do you know Harvard and Stanford have a tradition that starts around 1760, how long they've taken? Do you know that these elite universities offer more than 300 courses of study? You know that? - You shake your head, then you don't know. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly shakes the head.]] These are universities. I would deal with the term ‘university’ somewhat more selectively. But you have, I think, seen something like this to call an institute is smarter. But research doesn't work by buying scientists like international storm stars and putting them into a team that nobody knows, or into a club. I can't! There is a need for tradition, since it needs to be connected to structures that have grown and which are already sufficient to the excellence or excellence. There are enough examples for this. The Austrian Research Fund has established 16 special research areas, which are also subject to an international evaluation. There was no Austrian, no Austrian who spoke there. International experts have been promoted. Why is one part of this money or all the money in such institutions that are again peer-reviewed, which are again subject to an international review? You get the best and make it cross-sectional, natural sciences, technology. And please do not forget cultural and social sciences and humanities. There, too, Austria has tradition. It's not all the excellence you're exploring with machines, there's something else, because you have a head. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What else do I think? There could also be alternatives to finance these areas. There the universities are also not hurt and not rightly hurt and see a chance. Young people need development potential. And if you see that there is now less and less applying for posts, because short service contracts mate with miserable salaries – all else would claim – then that is nothing that forms a basis for future excellence and excellence. And something else: If there is a lack, he should be remedied to make all Austrian universities competitive. Then you can also talk about excellence institutes. Rector Skalicky, whom you certainly know, is known for Bonmots, but not only that, and I now come to no Bonmot, but to the simple truth. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not just!]] There is a list of other comparisons: TU Vienna with the Federal Technical University of Lausanne or Zurich. And when I see that Zurich and Lausanne spend the 40-fold of what TU Vienna is spending on per student in their university, I have to say, I can talk about excellence. There are conditions and resources there that also produce excellence. I would also like the Weizmann Institute, which also has a 50-year tradition and was not excellence in five years, where more than 1,000 professors work, not necessarily like what is planned in Gugging. And now I'll come back to the location for a second. It is not against Lower Austria, nor is it against the population of Gugging, but these scientists have said that we have four criteria, if a criterion is not met, it cannot be weighed down by others. It must be all four excellent. And if you mean – and you haven't quite said the truth – that money weighs the lack of networking with scientific sites and the somewhat unfavorable accessibility, then you're wrong. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I once meant, then even Stronach could come and say that I am in favour of the State Opera more than any other one, and this is in the heart of this, because there is also a music college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13597	Mrs Brinek is now speaking. Your welcome time is 7 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13618	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The guided tour of the FWF is a guest here today, welcome. The opportunity to talk about elites, about excellence, about excellent achievements at universities, we are very pleased to note that we are talking about the ÖVP, the BZÖ, of the government. So you're making us a real joy with today's hour. [[Abg. Oils: Urgency! No current hour!]] It can be put right and some things hardened. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to protect Professor Seilinger from some comments by the Greens here. Mr. Seilinger never said he was deceived. I don't want this sentence standing in the room. Rather, the previous statements of the Greens have actually come up with something that could be described in summary as fear of excellence. The Greens were never for an excellence institution, whether as a university, as a university or as an institute. The SPÖ was for me for a time with half a heart for it. The SPÖ will have to decide in future. In Vienna Deputy Mayor Rieder said last: Too bad, we missed the chance. This means he can only have meant Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Professor Grünewald: Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has never equated the above-mentioned places with the places you mentioned. She didn't talk about Stanford and Berkeley. Did you listen? She mentioned the role model institutes mentioned by Professor Zeilinger. Please, let's stick to the truth! What do I want to say? – There are not the Excellence Institute worldwide, not the “Excellence Presentation Method”, but there are many ways. Federal Chancellor Schröder of the SPD came for the first time with the word “Elite-Uni”. This has given rise to a reflection throughout Europe: How do we deal with our innovation and excellence location, with our excellence potential Europe? And it was not the Federal Government that used the word “Elite-Uni” – it can also be read – but it was the media. This is perhaps also necessary in order to be able to explain what it is really all about at the last corner of the Republic. So, please don't take both Seilinger and the Federal Government and the Federal Chancellor into the duty to do something you would like to hide yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am particularly pleased about is that excellence and elites can also be discussed about high performance in research and teaching in Austria. And I am very happy about articles as they are brought by Hans Rauscher in “format” and in other media. Speaking about Elite, he said, is finally able to live in this country again. This is an important trend change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me have a few more of Klubobmann's professor. Van der Bellen put things right. So the Excellence Institute does not exist, whether you are looking at MIT, the Weizmann Institute or the Triangle Center in North Carolina, a research institute in the middle of three universities. And no one who has expressed himself professionally can only use a supermodel for himself. Professor Zeilinger was the ghost rector. Perhaps it was – this is my position, which is now attached to your thoughts – too long a thematic narrowing, so that other disciplines were not taken into account and were too strongly focused on natural sciences. But I stand by it and I support the way to start the Federal Government's proposal with natural sciences and mathematics. And all of you here who have spoken so far, including Mrs. Minister, have clearly stated that it is a long way to come to a full development of such an institution. But it's the right starting time to talk to Seilinger, it's now the decision to make. If in March 2003 Professor Seilinger first suggested this idea, that is, to establish something like this in Austria, then it is not too early for a decision about three years later. And Seilinger himself has said in between, i.e. 2004, that if the decision is not made within the time limit, he would say goodbye to the project. We didn't want to risk that. I am grateful to the Chancellor and the Minister for their initiative here. For example, withdrawalers are detected by a competitor around the site, that was the municipality of Vienna. In the municipality of Vienna, for example, there was a request from the Greens in June 2005 to harden my thesis that it would be only then, if there were sufficient funding from universities, that one could even imagine taking a stand on excellence. The Federal Chancellor's and Federal Government's Treaty, including the Minister with the rectors for the further financing of universities with a package of more than € 1 billion, is the best guarantee that the future of universities is secure. And the Greens have not modified their request in the Vienna municipal council. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, The SPÖ agreed. That means you've been halfhearted. The relative reluctance of Mayor Häupl, who seems to have also made the requests of his SJ, his district organizations from Hietzing, Josefstadt and others, namely, to act against an Institute of Excellence, has just led to the fact that he had to come too late with the additions and with the offers. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Look here!]] Deputy Mayor Rieder, as already said: Too bad, we missed the chance. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that way – I would like to show the graphic, Mr. Grünewald, once again – that the site of Maria Gugging has cut off only in one parameter, but in two. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] This expertise is not a secret paper. I got these from the head of the working group Höllinger in January. Maybe a short while to the location. First: St. Marx excreted earlier. So it was about whether Aspern or Klosterneuburg. And if Maria Gugging or – without “Maria” – Gugging is defied as a location, because there once was a neurological hospital and there worked artists who sometimes produced “pained” thoughts – perhaps also a scientific excellence – then I do not want this negative charge to become a burden to all the people who have done great things there. I have still experienced that St. Marx was known as a cattle slaughter, and that is why it was not a place which was not in question from the outset. Ladies and gentlemen! We face European challenges, which are called Austria to be able to participate and to negotiate when it comes to developing a network of excellence in Europe. This requires a decision on a location, via a campus in Austria. This decision has been taken on the basis of objective documents. We should work on the further decision. Not all scientists were against the site, some have said to establish two top institutes. We will make a request or have already submitted it, which will enable further creations in the future. Other professors have said, don't worry about the location like that, the money is crucial. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a truly convincing project here. We're confident. Excellence can be further developed, for example, in excellence clusters of the FWF, whether in a top research institute in Maria Gugging, or in further institutes in later years. Perhaps our children and children will once be able to prove their excellence at an institute in a place that we do not know today. Europe is networked, Austria wants to play along. Thanks to the Federal Government for this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13711	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13733	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the day is long, you can hear a lot of things here, for example, that the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, is controlled by the SJ Josefstadt. We have to talk about this at a Glaserl, which belongs to it, but not to a reasonable debate in plenary. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] On and on, the discussion about this elite university would have been cut off for weeks. I suppose the state of Vienna would have said the same thing that the federal state of Styria said two days earlier, namely: We have a number of universities for which we as the federal state already spend a lot of money. Therefore, our war fund – that was, I believe, the expression that the Styrian science councillor Edlinger-Ploder has chosen – is less full than the Lower Austrian who, holding to graces that Danube University has, spends less money for universities than for example the state of Styria. I therefore call the state of Styria, because it should also be an unexpected example for you. Mrs Edlinger-Ploder is an ÖVP politician if you do not know. The same could have been said by Vienna, which for its universities, for research and science, if I have the figures correctly in mind, has spent € 404 million in the last seven years – a large part of which should have been paid by the federal government. I remind you of what I have already said here: to the professor who invited Rector Skalicky and who wanted to go back when she saw the institute, where then the city of Vienna 500 000 €... – You are talking about another! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I'm talking about one who's stayed. Attention, the story's not over yet! The company Siemens has provided €500 000 for the institute, €500 000 from the mayor of Vienna, so that a professor who has been invited from abroad remains in Vienna at all because the technical university could not provide adequate work opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: These were other conditions!]] I think the topic could have been done for weeks, if not by Professor Seilinger, about Professor Schuster and Professor Schmidt – who were involved in the matter with their heart blood – all at once say: If not 39 foreign-Austrian scientists say: We don't come back to the university in any way, if not all... Yes, that's right! [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] They didn't say that, they just meant: There's hardly anyone who likes to come. – That’s right, that’s a small difference. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is a superiority!]] But I suppose none of them said: I'll be there, but nobody else, if I have it right in my head. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's wait!]] The Wittgenstein prizewinners of recent years, highly decorated scientists, who, if I see this correctly, are on and on a good footing with the Federal Minister – Penninger, Schroeder, Kromp-Colb – have all said: Gugging not! It is the scientists who have jumped off from this project and who have kept this project in public discussion! If it were just about politics, it would have been done for weeks: The one who has given the best offer may win, but it's the scientists who say: That's not enough for us! That is why I like the example of Mr Greenewald, who always says: What if Stronach plants the Vienna State Opera with billions of euros to Mariazell? Is that a good location because she gets more money than she is in Vienna? - No! The scientists say: We don't like the location! – What am I supposed to do about it? . I'm just telling you what this is about in the public debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I think it was Mrs. Renée Schroeder who said the brilliant sentence: Gugging is an ideal research location for an autistic scientist. – That was her opinion, you can read it in the newspaper. But how is it going now? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: At this level we continue “safe”!]] – I think that after the National Council election it will be rethinked about that... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Do you really believe that?]] - I don't understand what you're saying. You can keep talking, I don't hear it. We only had 2 days to think. Maybe you'll tell me afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I think that after the National Council election, when majority relations in this House are going to be others, we will talk about the thing again. And that does not mean that Gugging cannot and should not play a role in a concept for a top-level research institution in the east of Austria, but it cannot be that there is no more serious discussion at all about what an indisputablely powerful scientific location such as Vienna in such an institute should also have in terms of participation and participation. There will certainly be a solution that will then look different and that will not be called “No, Gugging”, but “Gugging yes, but...”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah!]] And this solution will be there, and you will see that we will decide together. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Gugging yes, that's what it means!]] And at the end of the day, it's all right. The scientists will come, no one will be more afraid that he will be taken up and abused by the party, and the project will still be a good end. Until then, the excavators may rise and build the office buildings – that costs a few hundred thousand euros – be it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13884	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e13905	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Then I saw a lot of amazement in the ranks of the SPÖ colleagues, following Mr Broukal's speech. You really looked very amazed! I don't know if you really listened to him. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction SPÖ) You are still amazed!]] They still marvel, and the applause for the speech was also relatively narrow, because probably no one understood where this swing came from at once: It will find a good end. - I'm glad! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that the SPÖ will be involved in the good end for Gugging and for the Institute of Science and Technology! That's what I take from your words. I'm very happy, but I can still see amazements in your ranks. – As often as you can, Mr Broukal: Your club won't be entirely in line with the good approaches you're showing. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You didn't listen!]] They say the scientists have jumped. Today, however, you yourself have heard from Mrs. Minister that there has been a signature from those scientists you have spoken about, who have known themselves to Gugging. [[Abg. Broukal: But only two days!]] – I can’t probably follow these great scientists, but I don’t understand! They only sign a paper where they confess to Gugging that we have seen here, and the next or next day – I don't know exactly the sequence of time – they say at once: That's not it anymore! [[Abg. Broukal: But you have to ask the Seilinger, not me!]] Yeah, but you always put Seilinger on the pod and say he jumped off. – Yes, ask him why he signs a paper! [[Abg. Broukal: Gugging or nothing! That's how they put the gun on his head!]] When I sign something, I think exactly what I subscribe to; and if I sign: I am for Gugging!, but then I am also for Gugging and do not jump off the next day. – So, in my opinion, this is really to be clarified! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's to be clear! Explain this with Professor Dr. Zeilinger! Ask him why! I'm very surprised at all the scientists you're now enchanting out of the hat, who say: I'm never coming back to Austria! – I wonder: Apparently Austria is so terrible that you can't return. [[Abg. Broukal: No! After Gugging, they said!]] And they all know that their area will be the area in which the institute will operate. – I am very surprised! Today no one knows in which fields of excellence will be. Nobody knows yet! There will be internationally recognized scientists from Austria and abroad to decide: What kind of field will it even be? – It’s interesting that many people say today: Not me! – Well, they're probably sad because it won't be their department. We should really talk about this question only if we know in which field the institute will operate. In the final expansion stage, it is supposed to be ten disciplines, starting with maybe only two, three, four, a maximum of five – if at all! That will be the end of tension! And there – believe me! – the government will certainly not interfere, because I think that the scientists should then seek out and consider: What is the really right area, the department in which our Austrian Institute of Science and Technology Austria will work? – The scientists should decide this completely wisely, because I think that is the important thing and that will be the decisive thing for the institute. When we talk about Austria's reputation, especially on the part of Professor Van der Bellen, I ask you: Who makes this whole development really ridiculous? Who's talking about a baby-birth? Who's talking about a sniper cluster? Who will ruin the reputation in the final effect? – Think about what you're doing with the form you're talking about this institute we're going to start! Why don't you think about it? What debates, do you think, will a foreign journalist report? – He will see what is said by the opposition in his own country, how the discussion takes place. And there you don't need to wonder if there's something positive in the foreign media, because you're also significantly responsible for it. And think about what responsibility You have here for Austria and for the reputation of Austrian science in Europe! [[Abg. May. Kogler: National shoulder closure for dredging!]] It's also very clear, very much honored Ladies and gentlemen, this law provides only the framework in which later the activities of the scientists will take place. It can't be in any way – on the other hand, I already keep my mind! – that there will be policy influences here! A president will be appointed by a board of trustees, which of course must be ordered by anyone – because you have to give the impetus, because you will not be able to say good-bye – and the work will be taken on course. As in so many other areas in such institutions, the President will have an important function and also a great deal of power where one cannot interfere. That is why I am very excited about what you will say when the work will be started, because you know too, it will not go so fast and it will take a lot of time to get something like that going. I think you know, too, Mr Green Forest, that money does not come from heaven, and we cannot pay everything and everyone! We cannot provide a hundred departments for excellence, there will be only a few. – I think you know that it will only be possible in some selected fields. I ask from your side for a correcting position, because I am constantly subserviently listening out of your speeches, when you talk about Mrs. Minister, she has just finished at one PÄDAK, in the form of: How can you even agree on this topic? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No! I've been talking about talent promotion!]] – I hear a No, so I get it wrong. Otherwise, I would have thought that Mr Broukal could not speak of science either, and we should not all talk about Excellence Union, because we are all, perhaps, not researchers, and then we should all not talk about this subject here, but just you. So I hope that's not true. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Your hope is not yours!]] - Who? [[Abg. Dr. One: You talk faster than you think!]] – I have only always heard these subversive things, and I hope that is not true. I emphasize: It is very likely that people who have not studied are able to decide on these things! – I am very pleased that you agree. [[towards Greens]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] This calms me very much, because I think it is important that the government is able to decide very well, even if one does not have the qualifications you possess – and that it has the opportunity to decide on a location question, because this is also about the framework conditions that need to be given. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald]] And that is, as I mean, something that the scientists cannot decide, but that has to be stated by politics. To this expertise, made by an independent body, by several independent institutes, and in which it now says that Gugging has best cut off in two out of four areas that have been assessed. You can't just do that and just don't wipe away from the table! As it was said by previous speakers that a location had to be best cut off in all four areas: No one would be in question at all if one had to cut off in all four areas! I do not know where that would have been the case. To say that the Styria or the Steirers could not invest so much money: Yes, that the decision is different, since I come from the Styria, personally also suffers personally, but one must say, fairly, that not the money was decisive, but the Styria has therefore been eliminated – again: what really hurts me personally – because the wrong location was offered, a location where there are no spin-off possibilities. A former PÄDAK in Eggenberg was offered as a possible location, with no additional premises there; nor was there any spin-off possibilities there, but this is very likely to be the case in Lower Austria or also in the case of Aspern. There must therefore be the possibility to land commercial parks in order to provide the economy with appropriate facilities. That's why the Styria was eliminated – and not because it made too little money available. This may have been a reason, but the main reason for the rejection was inadequate premises. [[Abg. Broukal: I'm just quoting Mrs. Landesratin!]] – That was the decision of an independent body, please! – Ms. Landesratin in Styria, unfortunately, has chosen the wrong building, she may not have had so much time to consider exactly what other possibilities are available. [[Abg. Broukal: You mean Mrs. Landesratin is wrong?]] The aim of the Excellence Institute is – I think that is something we all want – to establish basic research at the top level in research areas that are still unexplored in Austria, under excellent working conditions and development possibilities for excellent researchers. A comprehensive excellence strategy in Austria – and in networking with excellence centres of other scientific institutions – is intended to lead to a significant upturn for the entire Austrian scientific system, to make a significant contribution to further increasing the attractiveness of the scientific and research location of Austria in order to reverse the brain drain. These are all things that we all, as I mean, want together, that scientists come back to Austria again, that, where we have invested a lot of money in recent years, that is, in research, we are now putting one more on it and saying: Here we do something that will have an impact across Europe, so that we will be in the forefront in Europe, with an excellent Institute for Science and Technology. At any rate, I am very surprised that you are helping by the opposition parties and are trying to ruin the reputation of such an institution in advance. I ask you to or ask you: Think again about your reasoning; look at this draft, but above all: Join us in an objective discussion so that we can open up new areas for the researchers in Austria and give them new opportunities to bring Austria back to the top in terms of an Institute of Excellence!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14152	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14173	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I find this staging very strange in two ways. First of all, what you, Mrs Bleckmann, have said here: If I didn't know you weren't taking this very seriously yourself, I'd be really upset at the fact that you're just pretending that the opposition was to blame for the fact that this project is going down the stream now! That's probably the last thing! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: So it wasn't helpful!]] – I will become very concrete with my argumentation! The second is not the question whether this project is good or not. We are convinced that such a project can be described as really good – and that is why we are concerned about how you deal with this matter by the coalition parties. The point is exactly what is happening in this context. I think it is just too symptomatic, as you, Mrs Gehrer, spoke about this core group of scientists and said that they had fulfilled their task. That was so in the spirit – that's what you heard: And now they can go because we will implement the concept! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, you can already implement this concept – the question is only: with which scientists? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is the point that we are dealing with here and today: that, although you want to set up a top research institute, the scientists are making such a difference and annoying that no one of them will want to get involved in it because they see that there will not be any research opportunities there that they wanted. That is, the problem is that you are trying to use these people by the government parties – only the “dum” in this case is that it is not employees who can cancel you at the next month’s end, but that they are highly qualified scientists who will necessarily be needed in Austria if you really want to achieve what you claim. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What exists among the researchers – and I have not actually heard about you – is that it will need an exchange, because if you want to have such a top research institute, you need an exchange with universities, with other scientific research institutes. This is the question that makes the Gugging site quite problematic, because there is no such environment there. Mrs. Dr. Barta, who works as a research director in the Vienna Biocenter, has, I think, very aptly said: When I sit alone at a university, I can easily be good! You only notice where real skills are, when there is an exchange, if you have the opportunity to exchange with other highly qualified people! Since I was at an event of Club Research, where both Professor Novotny and Dr. Barta spoke on this subject, I would like to briefly tell you that, among other things, they talked about why Gugging is very problematic from their point of view: This is related to this, they say, that this environment that needs research so urgently is not safe there at present. However, this does not say that one could not in principle take a research location such as Gugging, but only, so the two speakers said that one might need 20 years there to build what is already in Vienna or perhaps at other locations, perhaps also in Lower Austria. In Lower Austria, another location may be a bit difficult; but as a long-loiser, I would say: There might be Krems even better than Gugging, because at least there is something there already. – Anyway, it would take a lot of time. And if you do this the way you plan, you don't have this time if you want to start it in the autumn. So the question is: Why Make That's what you do? Why do you want to go through this research centre in Gugging now and on the spot? The answer you have given here is obviously not right. That this is the best location, this answer is certainly not correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] There are various possibilities. One, I think, is very realistic is that you want to distract from the general educational abuse, from the disaster you have caused or caused around the universities, but also around the entire educational policy. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Donnerbauer]] [[Call the ÖVP: Which one are you talking to?]] For example, one way you want to go about this would be to support an ÖVP head of state who already has certain all-power fantasies and who you might want to play a little more in the foreground now. Or, simple and simple: You want to refuse a renomming project before the election to have at least a good headline in this regard. [[Abg. Amon: You think it's gonna be okay?- Oh, my God!]] The question is: What Costs You and what does this cost us in Austria? – The scientists and scientists say goodbye to how they have been doing this for many years and decades, and the situation in Austria does not get better, but worse. They must then try more desperately to get them back from abroad with measures such as new homes and similar things. – This is a very serious point. A second important point is that you provide a total of an excellence center wherever it will be, poor start conditions. Because of how you deal with this now, there will be few people who want to participate in it in the future, who want to be used by you in this way, in which you now seem to use this so-called core group, politically instrumentalize. That means, in conclusion, you can only say: This prize is just too high for Austria, just so you have a political staging for the ÖVP before the election here!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14297	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14319	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker, I said briefly: Don't worry, this project will live, it's not a stillbirth, I'm convinced! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'd also like to tell you why. The title of today's urgent question of the Greens is: “Elite University of Maria Gugging: a sniper cluster”. A very drastic expression, ladies and gentlemen. Now I wonder and I'm probably wondering about a lot of people inside here and all the other citizens: What has happened to justify this expression? What really happened? Are there less funds than is necessary and desired? [[Abg. Sburny: The researchers are gone! Haven't you understood yet? The people who are supposed to work there are no longer there! Goddamn it!]] Is this project being financially starved, dried out, as you always like to say? The feasibility study prepared on behalf of the City of Vienna has objectively found that for such a project, for a University of Excellence, costs for full expansion amounting to €80 million would be necessary. In fact, the country of Lower Austria has pledged almost €180 million for the next 20 years alone, and the federal government will, of course, contribute accordingly. This means that sufficient funds are available to implement this project. – That obviously cannot be the reason. What could have happened to this cry of red and green? Was there a staff decision that didn't fit you? Is that maybe? - I don't know anything about that. There is no reason for such a decision, and there is no reason for it. [[Abg. Broukal: The scientists have personnel decisions for themselves...!]] What can it really be that causes such excitement to justify the expression “screws ”? – Quite simply, you said it more than clearly today: A location decision has been made. It has been decided whether this Elite University, if we already call it, is located ten or 15 kilometres further north or south. They want us to know that this makes a difference for a scientist, whether ten or 15 kilometers further north or south! [[Abg. Sburny: We say that those who are supposed to do this don't do it anymore! And you can't doubt that!]] So if you really want to use this as a reason, I can only say that's not understandable. This shows that there are no factual reasons. What can really be the reason? What is the reason for your rejection? I have already come up with a pretty bad suspicion, even in view of the discussions of the last few weeks and months. It is not a matter of making a decision, because there is no reason for that. Whether St. Marx, whether Aspern, or Klosterneuburg, that's, I don't think, from an international point of view, really important. But it is for you – and this is for the SPÖ, for you, Mr Broukal, to see for Mr Gusenbauer – that it is all about you, for perhaps party political reasons, to stand by your friend Michael Häupl and therefore to say that it must be only Vienna, that can only stand in Vienna, because Michael Häupl wants it and because Vienna simply needs it. – This is obviously the background to this whole excitement. [[Abg. Broukal: But you didn't listen to that right now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The Scientists...!]] No, not the scientists, you do, you do. You want to pick up what Michael Häupl, what the SPÖ in Vienna may have failed – Mr. Brinek has already done – now at any price. But now I'm wondering, What motivates the Greens? [[Abg. Sburny: You could have listened instead of giving your prescribed speech now!]] There, I have to say, I think only one reason is: This is perhaps an intermediate for the desired red-green coalition after the next choice. Is that the reason why you're so vehement about Vienna right now? Is that why you say: Lower Austria is not in question for us!Unknown term type: "%s".? I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that is even more honest as the SPÖ operates here. If Mr Broukal says that we are certainly not giving money to Lower Austria, then that is at least honest. [[Abg. Broukal: What? I said the opposite ten minutes ago!]] If Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer says that the decision for a location in Klosterneuburg – that is, as I said, only a few kilometers before the gates of Vienna – is stupidity, then at least it is honest. He at least says that he has no factual reasons, but he simply rejects it for other reasons. In addition, as one has to qualify for someone who, like Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, was the top candidate for the National Council election in Lower Austria and who is supposed to be again at the next National Council election, the electorate in Lower Austria should judge this. I think these will certainly give a clear answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I really feel that this is a very painful thing that you want to do not only a performance here, but that you obviously try to take very serious scientists all over the world hostage. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] That's the background you're trying to make us know. Mr Broukal claimed that all Wittgenstein winners rejected this. That's not true at all. The speaker of the Wittgenstein prizewinners has rejected this, but there are many Wittgenstein prize winners who have a lot of sympathy for the site Gugging. [[Abg. Broukal: Which one? Just call one name, please.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Tell us a name!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think this location decision was a really good decision, and I think that we will do everything we can – even the voters will do it – that this location decision remains true after the next election. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I hope that you just haven't fooled yourself with your performance for the red-green coalition and that the electorate won't take a line through this account!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14483	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Donnerbauer, none of us meant that only Vienna would be in question, but all of us have said that we can of course also imagine Lower Austria as a location! We have a far-reaching view – unlike you – and we are concerned that we involve scientists, researchers and researchers in this important matter and do not make them dependent on the circumstances of a country chief who has promised a money injection and has chosen this location for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] In addition, I find it really remarkable that the head of state posters in the whole of Lower Austria: Austria's first elite university comes to Klosterneuburg; he doesn't even write Maria Gugging. The population of Maria Gugging will thank the head of state for not even mentioning their local name. Moreover, the legislative proposal is only available today, but the head of state is already being assigned to the Scientific Committee! That's typical. This head of state has severely damaged the reputation of Niederösterreich in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If it was really important to Pröll, he would not have done so much small-bourgeois and unprofessional damage in this question of Lower Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] About the reputation of Lower Austria, it has been much worse ordered both domestically and abroad, since he has been listed in this way. Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, we only have more than 0.98 percent of the education budget for the universities. We only have more than 0.13 percent of the education budget for adult education. There is just €100 million for this top research facility, the rest of which, as we have just heard, will contribute to Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why do you know that? What you know!]] If your education policy were really important to you, Mrs Federal Minister, you would not have made this decision in the form either. [[Abg. Hornek: Look at the unemployment figures in Vienna!]] But because both ÖVP functionaries are, ladies and gentlemen, you have given up your sense of responsibility in favour of my view of black players with the highest amount of money and have not been careful to try together with all of us to establish the setting up of a top research institute here in Lower Austria or anywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who?]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Where? Where?]] Of course, we, as social-democratic politicians, are in favour of such an institution. Yeah, that's a huge chance. But what are we supposed to do with an elite union without elites? [[Call the ÖVP:But hello!]] That's what Col. Sburny just said. This elite has approved of you. Please call me a Wittgenstein Prizewinner who is still speaking out for this project in this form! I'd like to hear names. Mr Pröll said that Seilinger had closed the door. – I ask you: Who threw him out? [[Call the ÖVP:No one! He's gone himself!]] Who then threw him out with words that a chieftain of Lower Austria should not really be worthy of? That was more than disappointing! The head of the state of Lower Austria acts similarly adventurously in many other areas. For example, his statements on the Roadmap for the Elite Union are mentioned. In April the excavators stand at the door, and in September the first offices will be functional, according to Pröll. This is similar, for example, to: Chief of State Pröll promises the population a bridge, the population says: But we don't have a stream at all, what the head of state says: You'll get it too! – He has acted in the same way in the question of Elite-Uni, and that is negligent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are already receiving from Mr Landeshuptmann a proposal for a location with a lot of money that he takes in his hand, I ask you: In return, could you call him two, three, four names of scientists or scientists who would also be willing to work in this top research institution? I haven't heard of you yet. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Pröll likes to make floorings, ladies and gentlemen. He's a ground-breaking expert, we know, I've even been with some – but often nothing comes after that. The Television is always there, but then nothing happens. Therefore, I am not sure whether this university in Maria Gugging is actually being built, because no one wants it today by the researchers in this form. That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day: We Socialists and Socialists expressly welcome a top research institution in Lower Austria, yes – and this was also discussed by us in the current hour in the Landtag – but please with a sense of fingertips and not with the Polithammer, just as it did country captain Pröll. We all want to integrate and therefore demand a return to the start. We want to return to a common concept and finally to a related work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14660	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14681	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I welcome your statement that you are for an Institute of Excellence in Lower Austria. I congratulate you for coming to this knowledge just like your colleague, Broukal. Much more important, however, would be if you would also have the far-sighted look you first called for so that you could say: Please implement this Excellence Institute as soon as possible! This is also particularly true with regard to the fact that only last week’s President Barroso presented the European Technology Institute to the European Commission, which is to arise from a network of excellence centres. There is absolutely no room for any delay tactics you want to show now. It is high time that we set up an excellence centre in Austria, that we have a top research centre at our disposal, that we are at the forefront of research across Europe. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Speed kills!]] Mrs Sburny, I do not think you will be very pleased if you have to hear from the government parties that Austria is on a very good path in research that we are in the forefront. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Sburny: (keeping a writing in height) But that's a joke!]] Mrs Sburny! We are one of the few countries in the EU that have the opportunity to reach the Lisbon goal at all, and we have a very, very good development. [[Abg. Sburny: (still keeping a document in height) You know that, and you know that this is a joke!]] You often don't want to hear the numbers, because the figures are real facts, and that's what makes you difficult. You will be really hard to find out when you hear that our research rate has increased from 1.88 percent in 1999 to 2.35 percent! [[Abg. Sburny: That's a cut!]] You don't like to hear that, I know that because it's very positive. A great deal of investment will continue to be made in the future to finance the Austrian research country even better. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This research success is based not only on the financial resources, but also, in particular, on the tax incentives available to small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, as well as on a structural reform, which finally brought about the promotion of research, so that it is easier for everyone who wants to have a research funding to approach them. One thing is clear, and you've often complained, so I'm surprised that you don't want it again: Basic research in Austria continues to show a deficit. This is why a top research institute is now to be set up here in order to meet this deficit. It is really important that we have the opportunity to set up and build this Excellence Institute as soon as possible, to offer researchers working conditions that they can really do research under best conditions, and to ensure that the researchers stay in Austria or return to Austria after collecting international experiences. The following is very important to me: In the framework conditions surrounding this Excellence Institute, a focus has been placed on the fact that there is a networking with all the excellence centres in Austria – with universities, but also with non-university institutions – because an Excellence Institute can only really work effectively if it is connected to the universities in Austria, but also to the universities in Europe. One thing is really a pity, we have heard this over and over again in the debate, namely that the issue of the location of this whole project makes it so powerful. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said that we should call the names of scientists who are positive about this location. I can quote from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” last week. Professor Buchberger, who is not unknown as the founder of the renowned software park in Hagenberg, has created something here – also on the so-called green meadow, in a castle, but without infrastructure – with great spin-offs that are now available. And Buchberger – I quote literally – says: “Rininger should have made a shout of joy at Gugging.” This is from the mouth of a very well-known scientist, who has built a very good institute in Upper Austria and who is also connected to Linz, although this is not only 5 minutes away, but also a certain distance. It seems that for this scientist it is not a problem to network with other institutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! It would be really important for us to bring together all the forces in terms of research and science and to support the establishment of this Excellence Institute as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14785	As the next speaker, Mr Zinggl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14806	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to consider with you a few figures that make it difficult for me to believe in the success of this institution. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] With the university law 2002 you, Mrs. Minister – in your own words – wanted to establish many world-class universities in Austria. In view of this many world-class union, of course, some people wonder: What else is there to an Excellence Institute? Isn't that a superlative of the superlatives? The Federal Government no longer knows what words it should find. In view of the really sad situation at the universities, that is more cynicism in my eyes. But so that we can come down a little bit from the false pride that is being cast out and perhaps overtones the actual conditions in the face of the election campaign, I would like to bring a few figures of comparisons; Kurt Grünewald has already started with this. The MIT, ladies and gentlemen, is a world-class union and has an annual budget of $2 billion, converted into around €2 billion, just so that we can expect it later. Not much is known about the costs of the Excellence Union. We know that in the first years it will cost €22 million – ongoing, annual costs – and that these costs will rise to €70 million after ten years. But now you have to know that these 22 million are intended for 50 scientists and that after ten years 500 researchers will work there. Of course, this is a strange bill: Ten times as many researchers need only a triple budget. There's something wrong with that. I think that's a little plausible. Hopefully, it won't come to bad surprises later. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Why did I mention this with MIT first? – Because there are 5,000 scientists working there! And if you divide the amount of 2 billion, you get exactly the 200 million € that would actually be needed for these 500 scientists in our place. Now you have submitted a request to us today, in which what the working group has produced as a final report has not been fully accepted and will be adopted. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But far!]] – Yes, I can tell you in which part. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Supervisory Board!]] Instead of 500 researchers, you suddenly want to have only more than 300 researchers after ten years. That's 200 less! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: If it's 5,000, it's right for us too!]] I can quote to you the working group which, in the report, writes carefully: In ten years' time, having another small university, which is sufficient for average claims, does not justify re-founding. - Quote. That means: We are of course dealing with a reduction in the number of researchers, with a reduction in the quality of the researchers. This also applies to the funds – I have just told you – and also to the location. In my opinion, the whole of this will – and not only in my opinion – go in a direction as the working group rejects it as a worst case: Lower Austria gets an average, small university. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who says university?]] There is something else in this request that points to this provinciality. Mrs. Dr. Brinek, look at § 6! There it says that three of the seven curators are ordered by the state of Lower Austria. – Four from the Federal Government, three from the state of Lower Austria: This is your provincial ‘independent’ research policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is an international standard! Have you never heard of an international standard?- Oh, my God!]] The question for me is whether Maria Gugging Klosterneuburg needs to be incorporated so that it can be called Uni Klosterneuburg. What seems quite clear to me on the whole is that this is an inflated instrument for the forthcoming National Council elections. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, please!]] I would like to make another comparison. A similar case occurred in 1998. There was also called on the so-called research gallery for the international positioning of Austrian science, and this desire was indeed met. Since then, eight years have passed, and every year many million euros have flown into this gallery of research, and these funds have completely gone down the stream. If you look at the homepage of this gallery of research today, there is a unit to find once a year, there is nothing about publications. Now the facility is in front of us. That's how you deal with the taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen! And that was nothing but an exercise for a university of excellence at the time. I can only say that exercise you really did not succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14946	Mr Mitterlehner spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e14970	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only join him: The urgent question has not been very successful either, because I am really shocked by what Mr Zinggl has just said, but also by others. Now he is already trying the principle of hope. Somehow I have the impression that you all hope that this whole project will not succeed. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Exactly!]] You cry at the wrong time on the wrong tombstone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before the founding committee has even presented and completed the concept, come and say: [[Abg. Sburny: The Founding Committee?]] No one has yet spoken in favour of him going to Maria Gugging. Yes, it is only then that we should vote in favour of it once it is established, as at all, with which research priorities are being started, but not now. For the failure of the project you bring the site question into play, exclusively the location question. That's where I've got to say: They judge from a distance, as a remote diagnosis, that the project is set up at the wrong location. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Bird perspective!]] In my opinion, there is no absolute project that will only have advantages or disadvantages. I'm a little surprised that you're coming up with such arguments and that you're coming up with Professor Seilinger as proof of this. I know his PowerPoint presentation from the beginning, and Vienna was planned as a location. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Always only Vienna!]] This says that he has a good personal and an equal opinion, because in his charts he has the state opera, the New Year concerto and the Vienna location inside. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Lipizzan!]] But in the final effect it is impassable if he cannot differ from his opinion in the event of an objective call for tender and says either Vienna or nothing at all. This does not mean, therefore, that this has not been done objectively, but is actually speaking to Professor Seilinger, which I regret, because he has brought in a lot of ideas for the project in the form. What surprises me, too, is the access of Professor Van der Bellen. Professor, I have to say, somewhere I find this discussion or your opinion almost small when you come by foot to measure the distance of the university's location from the centre of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: From the campus!]] We live in an internationally networked world, we have virtual thinking. When the European Institute of Technology is spoken of, the question also arises: How do we connect in Europe with which cities in America? – And you come to the campus by foot! That's where I have to say quite honestly: Which world do you live in? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point is: Mr Zinggl has just mentioned that the board of trustees is so composite. – I regret it if you think so. Here your thinking is actually exemplary, but negative, because take the Styria, what would be there? It would be just as politically questioned if the location were there. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, eh!]] Then the head of state or the head of state would have survived. Therefore: Let the decision be made and see that – and now the really important point – we are coming to implementation! We need the location for the economy, we need basic research. And there too I have to say: I regret your wording in the urgent request. Why? You make fun of yourself on the one hand, Mr. Zinggl has illustrated it with these 2 billion € or US dollars that the MIT has available. On the other hand, he said: 300 scientists want You just got there! That's ridiculous! And Professor Van der Bellen then appears on the next occasion – the last time it was around the educational budget – and says: An insanity, we have too little resources at our disposal, we need funds there and there. But the net deficit must not increase either. Now I ask you, Professor: How do you do it? Where are you taking the money? – On the one hand Page criticise that we don't have $2 billion, on the other hand, you say we should do this and that carefully. That's kind of ghastly! Secondly, I also notice that you always measure, compare, and then say: We still have too few graduates compared to other countries. – You should measure the researchers, Professor! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Both!]] Look what India has, what China has, what others have! And that is why we need basic research on the one hand, and on the other we need university research. What about the one billion that has now been made available in a ten-year plan? - Both are here. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where? Go! There's nothing!]] I believe that this decision has taken a time frame. I was there myself and I heard when Seilinger and Schuster were told that we needed the decision quickly. [[Federal Minister Gehrer:... a year!]] - Right! One has made this decision – and now it is not right again. Now I'm asking you: What do you want? Once you want this, once the opposite! I will come to you with this, Mr Broukal. They're somehow pursuing a curve policy. First: No, we're going to revise that. Today you have already said: Yeah, but. – I find all this interesting. It's probably going to be. You then come to it exactly as at the universities: Actually, you've always said Gugging is the right location. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I believe in the final effect, that is the right decision in principle. On whether the details will also vote: I am relatively confident that this too will be the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15150	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15171	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kößl: Start with an excuse!]] For me, the project Maria Gugging is with high probability the next publication in the pearl series entitled “How to Do Something Not Do”. It's a synonym for missing project management. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How do I get it? If you consider the conditions of success for a project, for this Elite University, what is the result? There you have to look: What are the success factors in Cambridge? What are the success factors at MIT? What are the success factors at the Basel Institute? What are the success factors at the Weizmann Institute? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is more than 70 km outside the city!]] You can continue. – No, first of all, these are only 20 minutes from Jerusalem, second, you know very well that you have no place to expand in Jerusalem. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Are we seeing Tel Aviv?]] – 20 minutes, that's in between. What is the first condition? – The first prerequisite for the success of such a project is that there is a so-called Blue Ribbon Panel, a committed group that is driving forward the ideas of such a project. You can watch this anywhere in all these successful institutes. And this is broken by the way out of Schmidt, by Schuster, but also by Zeilinger. This is a very important point. There was also such a project in Austria. There is still a successful project in Austria today from the 1960s, the Institute for Advanced Studies, IHS, within the framework of which Oskar Morgenstern and Paul Lazarsfeld have brought social scientists to Austria with the highest education. Mr Felder has done this a little bit in the meantime, we already know. But that was a postgraduate elite training in Austria, in Central Europe. That's not gonna happen now. The second point, which is important, is that you need young, hungry, obscene scientists who do unconventional research. And if they lose these mentors like Schuster and Seilinger, then they don't come, then they don't have these mentors. That is why this is an important point. This professorial soil is falling away. Therefore, the location is important. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: “This is why the location is important”! That's right!]] A third important point is scientific freedom. Everyone who worked in science knows what that means. It is important to research freely, regardless of any pressure from outside. And what is equally important for this young elite is that it has an interdisciplinary feeding ground. Whether Maria Gugging is an interdisciplinary soil with the environment there? - I don't think so. That's why the location is so important. A fourth point, which is repeatedly mentioned and displayed in all evaluations, is the financial equipment, not the unique, but the permanent one! Therefore, you have to consider when assessing – whoever has done so in a professional way – whether you can compensate for permanent misbehaviour or location disadvantages with a unique equipment. In this context, an American has once told me: You can't get the basics. – So: If the location isn't right, you can't balance it with money. The example with the opera before was perhaps a different approach. In this context, Mr Mitterlehner, I am already interested in saying one thing: The economy is financing. The industrial union has said that it wants to give 30 million to do so. I'm afraid Veit's worried about whether his money will be properly invested in this location. A fifth important point that one finds time and again is that there must be no application pressure. Basic research operates without application pressure. But if an application is possible, then there must be the possibility to implement incubators, scientific institutions and science parks so that something can be settled there. And of course, this is not in this area to this extent. However, this must also be supported at the same time with risk capital and with appropriate management. What are my conclusions? – Some experts and the exponents have rejected Maria Gugging as a location. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: No! Seven to one!]] Also bowls, forks and prölls must accept: You can't get the basics. And a costly pilot effort at the expense of the public, at the expense of Austrian and Lower Austrian taxpayers in the country of the intellectual spearhead of the ÖVP, where one claims that he has only read a book, namely “The Treasure in the Silver Sea”, I think this is a blow to the face of this project. I am convinced that the next publication in the Perlen series will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15288	As the next speaker, Mr Brader spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15309	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The decision to settle this institute in Lower Austria, specifically in Maria Gugging, a beautiful place, is forward-looking. I say it is another milestone in the Austrian and Lower Austrian educational landscape. If you, Mr Moser, or Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, have weathered so much against this location, then I can only take this back to a sudden arousal of jealousy in Lower Austria and the successful policy of the head of state Dr. Pröll and the Lower Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Listen!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you look at the successes of Lower Austria in recent years, I mean, you may also be jealous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I just remember MedAustron and other projects. But remember that: Jealousy is looking. And your look seems to be sad, because fact is: Lower Austria has already made a top offer early in October 2005, Vienna has only made an offer in January. One recognizes the real interest. Number two: Lower Austria pays € 180 million, Vienna pays only € 120 million. This fact also recognises the importance of education in Lower Austria. Payments for the current operation amounting to 3 million and the building value of 35 million were also mentioned. The fact is that number three is: The location of the area and its size are excellent. Your argument, it's not close to a city center, is grotesk. I can already tell you – Mr Mitterlehner has also pointed out – that networking is not done with the bim these days, but in other ways. I think that nowhere are Excellence Institutes close to the city center; the Weizmann Institute has already been mentioned. Number four: The location is good because it is embedded in a landscaped, culturally historical region and not least also culinaryly unique. I believe that this is also very important, especially as regards culture. I'm just referring to the Essl Collection and others. Number five: Mr Broukal, I do not think, as you have said, that Elite University is not a target-leading place, but – on the contrary! – for the expression of the humanitarian development of our society. Spiritually, economically and architecturally, this university is certainly a great challenge, but I am convinced that federal government and country will solve this perfectly. I would just like to give an example: the Danube University. I remember the discussion, Mr Niederwieser, how much you have weathered against this Danube Union. All your colleagues were jealous of Lower Austria and have worked against this project. Today, the Danube Union with the Krems Campus is a European model project with more than 3,000 students. And you don't leave an opportunity to present yourself there. Please note, especially my colleagues from Lower Austria: You can not slow the forward development in Lower Austria, yes throughout Austria! I find it shocking that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Lower Austria, are opposed to this project or are not clearly referring to it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You will recognize it and you will know it secretly, too, but it would be nice if you could admit it: Lower Austria is on its way to a top ten region in Europe. [[Abg. Gaál: You must forget your hostility!]] And this institute is another milestone.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15377	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Donnerbauer reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15402	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In his speech, Mr. Moser said that several scientists have spoken out in the decision-making process concerning the location against Klosterneuburg. [[Abg. Brosz: You can't correct that!]] I'm actually correcting: Eight people were involved in the decision-making process. Seven of them have opted for the Klosterneuburg site and one against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15450	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Decliner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this very interesting discussion, after I thought the most remarkable contribution by colleague Bleckmann came. Mr Bleckmann already knows that this project is going to be a fiasco. Mr Bleckmann not only knows that this project will be a fiasco, but also knows the guilty. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: That wasn't my words!]] Here at this speaker's desk, Mr Bleckmann, you made it clear about an hour ago that the opposition is to blame if nothing is done on this project. Because we are committed to criticizing it because we dare not to welcome this decision by the Federal Government with incense vessels, but to critically judge it, we are to blame for it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: You are professional!]] Mr Bleckmann and Mr Scheuch! The right to criticise the Federal Government cannot be taken by you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This goes in the direction of your former party chairman, Haider, who meant that if someone abroad says something bad about Austria, he should be imprisoned. – Far from this opinion, you are not. [[Abg. Scheibner: They all wanted to lock us up once!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I know he's got nothing to do with you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable! If you have nothing to talk about, go back in!]] There is, of course, already a good reason for this hurry, for wanting to get over the stage so quickly, and there is a good reason to put pressure on the scientists, as Mr. Seilinger said very clearly: The National Council election is about to take place. [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk to your scientist once so you know where you are and where you are against it!]] It is not only when choosing the Gugging site and when ordering the respective Gugging bodies, that is to say, if you want to occupy the party political, just as you have done all these years, but also at the pedagogical universities, where I have already experienced this. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's apparently the only topic you're interested in!]] [[Federal Minister Gehrer: Seven years!]] This also needs to be done quickly so that the relevant bodies can still be well occupied in black and orange. It's just like Gugging. And this is an admission to the fact that you know what is ahead of you at the next National Council election, namely the end of this coalition. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have seen what the scientists have called the conditions for the success of this project. I think if you read this, it'll be hard to believe that Gugging is such a great location. Even colleague Brinek found at least the word ‘suboptimal’ for it. I quote from the expert group's report: The connection of the new facility to an international airport as well as to urban, very good public and private transport links to other universities and scientific institutions must be ensured. – End of the quote. I ask you: Which of your speakers has claimed that this condition would be fulfilled. - She's not fulfilled! Or: the possibility of clustering, the proximity to other universities, the possibility of settlement of science parks. – That’s still a bit of a deal. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Read our request!]] Or: good accessibility from international schools, a first-class leisure and cultural offer. – Mr Brader has at least tried to justify it with the example of gastronomy in Klosterneuburg. That's also something – but I don't think the authors of this paper meant that, colleague Brader. What the experts are still saying and what you are neglecting, on the other hand, is that all decisions, according to the two scientists, Seilinger and Schuster, are to be borne by a broad consensus of politics, science and economy. That's a basic condition! So there can be no consensus in politics unless consensus in politics is that the Federal Government is in agreement with the head of state of Lower Austria. Whether this is a broad political consensus is put on the table. As to the broad consensus in science, colleague Brinek, I must say: I have heard a single name in the whole discussion, that of Professor Buchberger. I need to take a closer look at this. With all the other scientists who have so far spoken about this, a broad consensus was already the subject of a broad consensus, but a broad consensus against this project. That's where I think you're breaking something about your knee, which shouldn't be and what this project certainly doesn't do well. One thing would be important: a research excellence facility. It is important Europeanally that we keep the best scientists, bring them back and be available to others from all over the world as a location. This is also a European concern. If we see this as a European concern, namely that Austria is in question as a location for such a European institution, then, I think, it looks bad with Gugging at all. And if every European country – and as we know, there should be about five to ten such institutions – begins to make such small guggings, then this European project will also be a failure. We therefore appeal to you: Listen to the objections that come! Don't turn it off like it's party-political! We are also concerned with our scientists in the goal. We are concerned with this location – but not with this decision and not with this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15633	Mrs Dr. Brinek spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15658	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Niederwieser said that I would have said to the site Maria Gugging or Klosterneuburg in the way that I called it “suboptimal”. Mr Niederwieser may have called on a "standard" quote. I need to protect the “standard” from the Dutch. I quote the “standard”: ‘VP-scientist Brinek, long advocate of a two-country solution, criticized ‘as Wienerin’ the lack of commitment from Vienna to the application, but also admitted that the word ‘suboptimal’ used by Seilinger and Co. is not the wrong one:’ So the word of Zeilinger is proclaimed. Now Brinek in the O-tone – see “Standard” –: “The decision for Gugging is not one that is 99 percent correct and one percent wrong.” That's what I'm standing for! It's already 60 to 40 percent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15698	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[17:07:48]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15721	We now come to a brief debate on the request made by Mr Ing. Kaipel, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 464/A by Mr Ing. Kaipel, colleagues in a federal law which amends the federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability, a period of up to 28. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes to justify the request. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In 2001, the government groups here in the Hohe Haus passed the Federal Procurement Act. Since then, all federal institutions have been providing centrally over Vienna, with the result that these deliveries, which once produced thousands of small companies, have today taken over a handful of large companies. These now take a monopoly position on deliveries. This change in federal procurement has resulted in the fact that many small companies are practically no longer partners of these Federal Offices, and this has caused their revenues to go against zero. In the end, many jobs were destroyed. There are also numerous complaints about lack of quality. One also complains that today's deliveries are partly very long and that there are false deliveries and deliveries that are not in order. In order to claim the Minister of Finance that this institution would save costs – it is spoken of as 50 million – I must say that the Minister of Finance has not been able to prove these savings to this day. In return, I can prove that many procurements are sometimes much more expensive today than they were at the time before the establishment of the federal procurement company. There are products that are bought today at a price of up to 700 percent higher than at the time. The tenders also contain conditions in which small businesses no longer have a chance. There are many examples of this; I would just like to mention two. There are 360 products in large baskets of goods and more, and if a product of them cannot be delivered, then one is no longer present or one has to be able to prove that in recent times orders in the order of one million euros have been implemented. This means that the conditions are always adapted to certain suppliers. Of course, it is necessary for these companies to try to make a compensation if they do not want to die. However, this is only partially possible, and if, then often only with much higher effort and much longer delivery lines. The Curiosis is that the former customers are today supplied by other, new, large supplier companies, who in turn prefer the products over very wide distances. You have thus established a system, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, which is inconvenient in both economic and environmental terms. In this question too, as so often, you have ordered consultants. It should only be noted that: This is a very “moderate” law with 19 paragraphs; Cost: 3,6 million €. They are now – and I see this as a very essential danger – to extend the opportunities for the federal procurement society. Their proposal for legislation, which was already under review, provides that the Federal Procurement Society will in future also be able to work for the distributed societies of the countries and municipalities. If you allow this to happen, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, then you will cause another death of small businesses in the regions, and this will destroy further jobs in the regions. I have been trying in the last three years to draw attention to this development or problem together with many interested parties. Thankfully, many of the companies concerned were also willing to explain their own concern. However, the majority of entrepreneurs do not dare to do so because they are afraid of repression. [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe in Vienna, where the SPÖ rules!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Your reaction – including your colleague, Mr Neudeck – has so far been that you claimed that all this is not agreeing that it is all wrong. In this context, I should just like to point out that the former President of the Chamber of Commerce of the Burgenland, Mr Kröpfl, said a year ago that he was not aware of any problems. – This is how you deal with your companies from the Chamber of Commerce! I assume that you too have been aware of the SME RESEARCH AUSTRIA report, in which all these my criticisms have been confirmed and many more critical comments have been made. If the indication is that the number of SMEs in the BBG is increasing, then this will probably only refer to the part of the MUS. The small and micro-enterprises are hardly there. Although they account for 90 percent or more of all companies, according to this report, they are only about 15 percent partners of the BBG. In addition, all cultivating services are subject to a fee today. This report also states that the damage done to the companies by the work of the BBG is greater than the savings to be achieved by this federal law. It is interesting that for a short time now – probably the pressure will also be greater for the ÖVP and for your party, Mr. Neudeck, on the part of the parties concerned – you too will speak of the government parties. Mr Mitterlehner, who prefers not to speak on this issue today, was elected on 3 March. In February, BBG’s procurement practice led to major emotions among SMEs. He also stated that the advertised lots were technically and practically designed in such a way that SMEs could not participate in the tenders. If he believes that SMEs need stimulating conditions and no further restrictions, then I give him the right. But what prevents him from making these too? We are willing to give our support. You too, Mr Neudeck, accuse the procurement company that only more large corporations and universal providers would be on the train. You're right! They compare the BBG with the centralist plan economy of the Soviet Union, which today, as you think, no longer exist in Russia. [[Abg. Neudeck: He reads my press services!]] What does the practice bring? – Your answer, Mr Neudeck, is: only additional costs for Austrian unemployed. – You’re right! I'll invite you to: Let us try to improve this situation together! However, I would like to add at this point that the evils are not the officials and employees of the BBG, but actually those who created this law – or the Minister of Finance who gives these orders for implementation. I think it is not the State's task to pursue corporate policy. Rather, it is the State's task to make a compensation. There is no doubt that there are disadvantages for the regions in relation to the central area or disadvantages for small businesses compared to those in the urban area. There is, I think, a policy call for a balance. If we want, it's all right. There is also the possibility in the question of eco electricity that federal services can rightly buy expensive eco electricity, because clean environment is something worth us. In the same way, we should also make arrangements for small businesses in the regions if they are worth something to us. They're worth a lot to us anyway! We oppose the fact that job relocations from rural areas are taking place in the urban area. What we want, we have made this very clear in our proposal, namely that the smallest companies are particularly supported. We also want the region to be defined in accordance with the EU's utility scheme, that a region is also to be seen as a region. We also want to report to Parliament in order to be able to check that small businesses are actually entering into contracts. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You've been talking for ten minutes, and your group has never slammed!]] We also want to thin the procurement catalogue for those products that are more expensive today than before. This request was submitted a year and a half ago, and the deadline is to be made today. I hope you will also support this deadline proposal. If you, Mr Mitterlehner, and also you, Mr Neudeck, have seriously meant what you gave of yourself a few days ago, I may call on you to ensure that people's reason comes from your ministers and your Chancellor. I invite you to give your consent to this deadline request so that we can deal with all your requests together very quickly, both your requests and our requests, in the interests of small and small enterprises and their employees in the regions and in the interests of rural areas. We, the Social Democrats, will not rest for so long as we have not produced a viable situation for small businesses and their employees, especially in the regions. You can count on us to fight very consistently for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15838	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15859	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaipel has just presented the situation of Austrian SMEs in a beautiful flowering manner. As a typical representative of a small medium-sized company, I am now in third generation – we are celebrating our 40th anniversary this year. The anniversary, and we currently have 15 employees, can very well put me into the situation in which the individual companies are, not only as entrepreneurs, but also as representatives of the Austrian machinery trade on the Chamber of Commerce as well as as as representatives of the Salzburger Maschinenhandel on the Salzburg Chamber of Commerce, as well as as as representatives of the Austrian machine dealers on the WKO, since we have been dealing with this problem for years now. Mr Kaipel! We represent not only the trade in machinery, but also the area you have addressed. This is primarily the computer trade and trading with all that has to do with computers and computerized systems. You write in your request: "The Federal Minister for Finance shall, by regulation, determine the goods and services to be obtained under this Federal Act. In this context, it has to determine how to consider the regional supply structure by micro-enterprises and by small and medium-sized enterprises, jobs and value-added. The Federal Minister of Finance shall report annually to the National Council on the results of this consideration. A ‘region’ within the meaning of this federal law is a unit of territory smaller than a federal state.’ This is a beautiful request, originally we have also worked on it through the Chamber of Commerce. He only contains a few mistakes, unfortunately. Firstly, the SME sector is a problematic area from terminology. There are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at Austrian level. We know that 80 percent of Austrian SMEs, the SMEs employ an average of ten employees, 90 percent already employ 20 employees. And there is, of course, a discrepancy at European level: According to EU definition, today we have 250 employees in the SME sector or, as it is so beautiful in the international jargon, in the SME sector, at the small and middle-sized entrepreneurs. However, these companies make an average turnover of €50 million at a balance sheet total of almost €43 million. There is also a very big difference to Austrian farms. De facto, however, has been taken care of by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of your request. Two issues have already been issued by the Ministry of Finance and a so-called procurement control has been introduced. As part of this procurement control, you will ultimately do what you demand in your application, namely the 100% review of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in relation to the federal procurement company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] I am not discussing with you now, Mr. Colleague. I've listened to you. Fairly, you're listening to me now. To give you only a scale of what this procurement market is all about in Austria: The complete procurement market in Austria accounts for around €220 billion. The federal procurement company accounts for around €0.5 billion a year, which is almost 0.25 percent. Comparing individual markets is, of course, a very difficult matter. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,]] Mr Kaipel, I understand your problem, since I know that you are coming from the south of Burgenland – I am a wine lover, I am not looking at it, have great preferences for the South Burgenland – and of course you are being cheated and needed by your company because these certain institutions are no longer able to supply. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] But nevertheless: As far as the regions you mentioned are concerned, there is now also a requirement on the part of the EU. The whole will be based on the so-called NUTS classification, the ‘Nomenclature des territoriales statistiques’ unit, as the individual regions are precisely defined. I quote: ‘The NUTS classification in force in Austria, in accordance with Annex I to the Regulation (...), on the establishment of a common classification of territorial units for statistics (NUTS) in Austria also includes individual or multiple political districts at level 3’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] My final point, Mr President: We cannot agree to your request on the basis of the applicable European laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15917	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15938	Mr President. Obviously, members of the government are not interested in this issue, whether it is possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to continue to exist. All right, that's it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Mayor, they have to rule and not lead shame!]] I know they don't have to be there. My previous speaker said he had a preference for the central and southern Burgenlands. Mr President, the preservation of small and medium-sized enterprises is not a question of preference for a rural region, but it is a question of survival in rural areas as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] And if I imagine that for more than a year this request is untreated here, and if I continue to imagine how many words I have heard from the members of the government, how necessary it is for us to support SMEs, and how important they are for jobs and for our rural regions, I wonder why we need to debate a deadline here in order to get into the debate on this request at all! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, is the rural area really worth nothing more to you? I read in the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ that MEPs will vote against the novelle, which will ensure that municipalities and countries are also served by the BBG. There should be a mistake, because the municipalities and countries can already be served. The issue is that distributed companies can continue to benefit from this. I am already excited how Mr Mitterlehner will then act in the vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural area is on and on it, drained, depopulated. Take a look at our rural communities: How many bakers have locked up, how many carnivores have locked up, how many businesses are there still out there? – And precisely with this BBG this development will be further strengthened. And now we're told communities: Friends, why don't you use this BBG, then you can also buy sparingly! – Can anyone tell me what the communities are really saving themselves? Mr Kaipel has already mentioned it, there are no figures. Can anyone tell me about you what it means to lock down one farm after another?- Oh, my God! Can any of you show me what it means if we no longer have jobs in the region?- Oh, my God! So this is dual-use: on the one hand, to highlight SMEs over and over again, which one must promote and so on, and then not be prepared to discuss a request that would help these small and small businesses and enterprises in particular. Let me give you an example from the practical contact with the BBG. The municipality of Schwerberg once tried to check its telephone provider. We have a contract with a telephone provider, have a regional mobile shop that cares for us – wonderful. We once wanted to know how we were lying, and tried to make an inquiry at Telekom/A1. You know what I heard from there: I can't do that, the community can't negotiate with us! The municipality can only contact Deutsche Telekom through the agreement with the municipality. So we couldn't get an offer. Do you know what we should have done? – We should have signed an obligation that we pass on nothing of what we do with Deutsche Telekom to the public. If we say something publicly, we will be punished for it. First point. Secondly, If we want to take advantage of this agreement with Telekom and the municipal government, then we have to become a member of the BBG, i.e. pay a member's contribution. And if all this has happened – we have to pay for performance – then we can make the contract with Telekom and use this tariff. [[Abg. Neudeck: There is no membership!]] They are no longer able to negotiate with us! This is free market economy?- Oh, my God! That's your idea! You're on the free market! – No, we must first sign a declaration, then we must pay and then we can conclude the contract. Interestingly, the other providers have already accepted this issue, and the regulator is dealing with this absolutely unfair competition, which is being run here, ladies and gentlemen. And the small mobile phone shop, the small provider in rural areas will certainly have nothing of it. If the rural area is really worth what you suggest if it is worth not only large farmers' support, if it is really a concern for you that the people in the rural area also have employment and work, then at least you agree to this deadline!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e15999	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Gaßner, if you're calling A1 for mobile phones, then you're probably the wrong steamer, because they're gonna charge you the conversation fees and put the phones at most as goodies on it. I think you don't have one in Schwerberg who has a wired network that will give you the talks. So that's where you misnegotiated. And I think it's quite common that if you make a price with a big customer, then it's said, but I don't want this price coming to the public, because of course it's a battle price. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: I can't! He's not negotiating with me!]] – Yes, because you seem to have not been willing to keep silent about the price that is agreed with you, because otherwise everyone wants to have it. But you could use the BBG, which seems to be negotiating as I could now recognize it from your illustration, better than you, and then you are once the first to save for your community. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: I did not understand, Mr. Cot!]] I declare it to you afterwards, my colleague, I do not have so much time to speak. Mr Kaipel, you are so against the BBG, and I say that we could bring together a close to our shoulders on many things, from the ÖVP to our group up to you. We also believe that there are things that are changed in this area. Only: We do not change them with a deadline proposal, we do not alter it with media scandalizing, but we have to talk to each other once. Just, you haven't come to us yet. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: One year and three months he is there!]] – You have never talked to me about it! On the one hand, it is double-buffed to say that the BBG is so disastrous and terrible, which is certainly not true, because especially in the case of energy and other large-scale purchases it does not meet the micro- and small-enterprises. I am no longer talking about SMEs, because in Austria, as we know, 99.6% of SMEs are SMEs. We are not such a small business country, so we need to talk about the micro and small enterprises and not about the SMEs. But back to your double-beddedness: They speak against the BBG, and the Austrian Town Association, which is dominated by my knowledge of Häupl, or at least by the Social Democratic Group... [[Abg. Ing. That's a distraction now!]] There's a letter to me from the 20th century. year(s) The Austrian Urban Association welcomes the draft amendment of the BBG Act, which was partly developed through the initiative of the representatives of the local authorities. In particular, the possibility that federal procurement can now take place on its behalf and on its account of award procedures for distributed institutions of countries and communities will lead to savings in these institutions. So over one and a half pages, the social democratically dominated city government praises the BBG. You know, to make a deadline request where you are on other important issues... – Yes, but there we are d’accord. [[Mr Gaál and Mr Mag. Gaßner.]] Only if you interrupt committees on other important issues, or if you don't give any dates, as happened with the Committee on the Interior and others, where you are chairing, will I have to laugh at a deadline and, of course, I cannot agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16103	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16124	Mr President. High house! The overall objective of the federal award or the right of award is to bring about fair competition. However, consideration should also be given to the promotion of other public interests, such as environmental protection or social law. What is definitely in the background of the contract law is the question: How is the regional economy, I am not even saying, being promoted, but at least not destroyed? Because what is happening at the moment about the federal procurement is that small or micro-enterprises, businesses with one to five employees and very small turnovers are being reduced in such a way that their turnover can and will result in a resolution of the company. In the end, therefore, it is not only a question of whether public procurement makes sense, from the point of view of the economy, because it is cheaper, but also of the total cost of the economy. And it is also necessary to look at how this affects the medium and, above all, small businesses. It has already been said several times today, as representatives of the ÖVP and also of the BZÖ have said, quite skeptical. And if Mr Mitterlehner is looking for intelligent ways of public procurement here, I can only support it, but I wonder why you do not now agree to this deadline proposal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the end, this request for a deadline is nothing but to address this matter. And if Mr. Neudeck says no one has yet approached him, then I can only say: Do it like me. Read the request, and say Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think needs to be changed or changed in order for you to be able to agree? That's how it's very easy to do. What you are doing, and this is a proven means in this government, is: You press ahead to position yourself here by pushing the treatment of this application to the long bank. It is a very common method of this government that you are going to postpone the treatment of an application for more than a year or more, so that you do not have to say no because you know that in regions such as the Burgenland, but also in the forest district, so in economically disadvantaged regions, the businesses would very well thank you if you did not agree to such an application. In this sense, we will, of course, agree to the deadline proposal so that the request is put to the vote at all and the government parties are here. Once again, we must declare how they stand on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16179	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Ing. Kaipel, colleagues, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 464/A by Mrs Ing. Kaipel, colleagues in a federal law which amends the federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability, a period of up to 28. ==References== I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the request for a deadline, to give a sign of approval. – It is the minority and thus rejected. [[17:37:26]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16215	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 to 9 of the agenda. We have two more speakers before the vote. As the next speaker, Mr Deputies has spoken. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16239	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So I continue the debate on the new passport law and come to the following conclusions: Today, organized crime has quite different ways of falsifying travel documents than it had in the introduction of the current passport. That forces us to act. The EU Parliament has already agreed on new uniform safety standards for passports and travel documents. The implementation of this EU regulation will be decided in the National Council today. This will significantly improve the falsification of passports and thus support the fight against terrorism and cross-border organised crime. In concrete terms, this means that a digital image of the pass holder will be stored as a biometric feature on a microchip in the pass. These biometric data guarantee in origin for the identity and authenticity of the passport holder. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We must give our police those instruments that they need for a successful crime fight. This is an important step in particular with regard to the entry regulations of other countries, such as the US. In Austria 500 000 passports are issued annually. They are produced in Austrian state printing. The price of 67 € for a passport remains the same in the future. Citizens will no longer be able to take the passport immediately, but will receive it by post after request. For children, there will continue to be the possibility of entry into the parents' passport. However, a children's passport will be introduced. It will cost 26 €, which is close to the fee for a co-registration. I also see an essential point in the fact that the application for a passport will continue to be possible at the municipal office. Especially the rural population can benefit significantly from this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again at this point: The chip on which the biometric data are located is falsifying as the experts assure us. We are obliged to make our passports safe from counterfeiting, and hence also from other EU countries. In the interests of all EU citizens, I can therefore ask you to give your consent to this government template. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16285	The next speaker was Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16306	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kapeller, come back to your comments on the Committee Chairman, Mr Parnigoni: If it is said here that the interruption is an arbitrary exercise of power, then I must reject it. [[Call the ÖVP: What else?]] This is not only an unfair choice of words, but it is also legal and contently wrong. First of all: § 34 para. 4 The Rules of Procedure Act states exactly who, when and why such meetings may be interrupted. And remembering the statements made by Mr Finz's Secretary of State, it must be said that these are totally unacceptable! If, in the face of the risky and burdensome use of the executive – Mr Neugebauer, he has rightly said today, one is obliged to look at the danger and you, as a colleague from the executive, will have to confirm it – then when it comes to heavy work and its recognition in this area, the whole thing is very flappy, salopp and disrespectlessly reduced and the executive comes to the head and then is not prepared to take back these accusations, then this interruption is more than justified! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the agreements that have been reached, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Bundesminister, we will, of course, agree. On the one hand, with regard to border crossings on tourist routes and in particular cases, it is simply a question of facilitating tourism, of deepening and developing friendly relations, and of hoping for a general revitalisation of tourism and a revitalisation of the border area. As far as police cooperation is concerned, we are all jointly interested in improved coordination and even more efficient police cooperation. This activity can be seen comprehensively, of course, also applies to the border area and is to be developed, as you rightly say, Mrs Federal Minister, towards genuine security partnerships. Common centres for training, continuing education and training are set up here. What is it about me, Mrs Federal Minister: It is to be hoped and ensured that the additional officials required for the strip service will not be used as personnel thinners, nor as a plan reduction, but as a means of providing adequate qualified security officers.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16346	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. - I'm asking to take a seat. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we arrive at the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the passport law and the fee law, including the title and receipt in 1340 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Notification Act, in 1341 of the Supplements. Mr Kößl, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Hizu have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Kößl, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – This was adopted by a majority of the majority at the third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1272 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we have the opportunity to vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1194 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[17:45:09]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the opposition of the Federal Council (1286, e.g.) against the law decision of the National Council of 6 June 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons at the right of residence in the Member State of residence. December 2005 concerning a Federal Law amending the National Citizenship Act 1985 (StbG), the Reimbursement Act 1972 and the Fees Act 1957 (State Citizenship Law Novelle 2005) (1342 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16450	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16477	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is not possible for us to agree to the current novel – we have already presented and justified this at the December plenary session. We are already among the three countries with the most restrictive citizenship rules in the EU – which in itself proposes to facilitate. We do not need any intensifications, ladies and gentlemen, from the government, which only lead to a strengthening of the integration deficits! Already by setting deadlines, your line in this area was clearly expressed: You go with all the hardness, with all the sharpness, without regard to losses. [[Call the ÖVP:Toni, you don't believe that yourself!]] We have no state emergency, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere was there a danger in delay, and the urgency could not justify you either. We were in favour of a comprehensive discussion, discussion and clarification of this very sensitive area, because in the end we are dealing with human intelligence and, after all, with the poorest of society in need of our help. That is why we should have acted with much more sensitivity in this law, because I think we need to help people, but not in addition to building barriers and obstacles. Therefore, no understanding of this rapid approach, for this rapid move through! As I said, The tourism package is a sensitive area that should be discussed more comprehensively, and we simply do not go away from it. There was no thorough preparation, no detailed consultation and discussion. I missed it, ladies and gentlemen. I can recall December as your experts – the experts nominated by the government group! – in the Committee, in part, very, very critical of the new provisions: They are not objectively defined, in particular as regards the social field, but only politically defined. There are no abatements, no reliefs, but essential limitations and, as I have said, very strong and additional obstacles – everything has been made more difficult and tightened. This citizenship law novelle, ladies and gentlemen, is not necessary! We don't need her! We want to go a path for which the Wiener Modell is considered an example, where we have set up an integration fund – a successful communicator between people of different origins, who supports with information, with advice on the handling of conflicts: local, but of course also from Vienna. You should go this way, ladies and gentlemen! We rely on integration instead of exclusion, on a co-existence instead of a mutual, on quality of life for all – and unfortunately you do not guarantee with this novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16511	Mr Lopatka has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16532	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really couldn’t follow my previous speaker – thanks for the “nets” calls! – because, of course, what my previous speaker has put down here is intended to do with this novelle. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] What is the main point of integration? – These are, of course, language skills. Language knowledge is a prerequisite for integration! And this is unfortunately rejected in Vienna. In several interviews by the competent councillor Wehsely – I can show you – these mandatory language courses in Vienna are rejected. This is the difference between you and us: We are for integration. We also need appropriate legal bases to be able to meet commitments, and it is an obligation for the new to come to us to learn our language, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: To read our local tables!]] You can make fun of it – we don't make fun of it, I tell you, because just think: [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: That's what you're doing!]] In Vienna alone, we had more than 18,000 citizenships in 2003; and if there were only 4 cases in the case of more than 18,000 citizenships, which were rejected in the absence of German knowledge, I think this is too lax in this area. I also do not understand the red-green majority in the Federal Council, which has given four reasons why it is against this law: It is claimed that the new citizenship law would be unnecessary intensification. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not unnecessary intensification, but a necessary measure to be taken, of course! We had between 7 700 and 9 900 citizenships from 1980 to 1990. We then had an increase in the 1990s, and the number of citizenships was between 10 000 and 18 000. And in 2003 we went up to 45 000 naturalisations! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this: From 1980 we had 457 595 citizenships. There is no need for anyone to blame us for being restrictive, because only in the last five years there have been 215 810 citizenships! So integration and reception capacity is huge in Austria anyway, but there are limits which we must not exceed, because then we actually have problems, and here it is necessary to act in time and not to take the steps too late. It is therefore completely wrong to say that this novelle would be counterproductive. The opposite would be counterproductive: to close your eyes and not to see that there is, of course, a great challenge here: starting from school and also on the labour market. Take You can only look at Vienna as an example, and see the current unemployment rates: Where is the rise? Where is the biggest problem? – With those who come new to us. In the case of The problem of foreigners in the labour market is greater than in the domestic sector. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek:... Foreign Employment Act!]] And that is why I cannot go back to where there are already major problems, and I can still raise the problems in this area. That is why I say to you: With this innovation, we take our efforts to integrate very seriously and continue. And what you say goes in the wrong direction. Integration is only possible in the case of language skills, and with integration there are limits of reception ability which we do not want to exceed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16605	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16626	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Lopatka, take Please note that the local panel debate is really not funny, but that you should take it seriously and lead it seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: But what does it have to do with naturalization? What does it have to do with the citizenship law?]] What this has to do with citizenship law comes from the context you always produce yourself. I should like to explain this to you, Mr Deputies, if you have not yet noticed it. You represent more or less openly in your novelle, which you present, something that you have summarized in Germany under the term "guided culture debate" when you look at the wording "the orientation of the alien to the social, economic and cultural life in Austria". And how does that look? – In your perception, at least the one in Carinthia – and this certainly supports your party massively – obviously primarily in German. But that's not Austria. Take note of this! [[Abg. Ellmauer: That's completely wrong! That's totally wrong! There are... for the autochthonic minorities, every year! - I don't know!]] I know you're uncomfortable with this issue. I would also be super embarrassing if I were a somewhat serious politician – and I suppose you have such a one – if I had to cover what is happening in Carinthia in connection with the local panel discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that's what you have to do with yourself, not me. What you can read well from the novelle is that it is first of all about whipping through your line, on which you have set yourself for ideological reasons, against any resistance to any expert opinion simply. This is the procedure you chose: They drive over it, as well as in other materials, about what experts say about what human rights representatives and organisations say. Your foreign exchange is as follows: We're sharpening on devils coming out! We have seen this again and again in the entire package of foreign rights, we can understand it here in x details, that is what the Federal Council has said, and also MP Lopatka has just said that again. He painted some numbers on the wall, as if people from abroad were coming in and being citizens of hundreds of thousands. Tell me the background! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka, keeping a paper in height.]] I also have the numbers: For demographic reasons, it is declining again in 2003/2004, for the same demographic reasons it has increased previously. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: 2003 was the highest!]] And tell them that a third of them are children! Do you really want to go here and deny Austrian citizenship to children born in Austria if they have their parents? [[Abg. Ellmauer: This is also about immigration!]] - That's what you're doing! They say: We first check these children if they can do enough German. – What you're doing is education with the wood hammer. This is your philosophy, which you also have elsewhere: And now you learn whether you are willing or not, otherwise I react with structural violence – namely, with the refusal of citizenship, in the worst case for a whole family! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Are you against learning German? Are you against it?]] You go here and try to do what you want to sell as an integration with Sanctionsand threat. What kind of integration policy is that? Don't tell me that it's your concern to actually enable people in Austria to integrate! This is not just a question of learning languages, Mr Lopatka. What opportunities do I give people to have access to the labour market? [[Abg. Ellwall: The condition: the language!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: It's not a disadvantage!]] Look at... [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] Yes, you can see in the UN that only the German language is the prerequisite. – Been You're not that simple! You're making it so easy! If I were to approach Austrian children on the same scale, we would look funny. Note that integration includes far more than pure language acquisition! [[Call at the ÖVP:But the requirement is the language!]] Take note that language acquisition, like any learning, only works really well if there is a beneficial environment – and not if someone stands and says: You'll fly out of our country right now if you don't pass the exam! [[Abg. Ellmauer: Such a nonsense!]] Excuse me, what you are doing here is pre-pre-emptive, and it does not even mask some sort of what you are doing with your foreign legislation, including citizenship law, namely worship to the right edge. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Once again, they have more civil rights and human rights with their feet!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16812	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16833	Ladies and gentlemen! It has made it easy for the Federal Council to object to this opposition, for it is so unspeakable and inconsistency in such a way and in reality has no reason at all why this law has not been accepted. First of all, it is justified that the countries would not have been involved in the negotiations. – That contradicts the facts! We have held a very extensive hearing in which all possible representatives have been able to express their opinion. And I remember that a representative of the Citizenship Department from Salzburg was present, and this one also made it quite clear what most citizens of citizenship are about: It is about getting the passport first, then going to the Social Office immediately with the new Austrian passport, so that one can obtain social support, and the third is to consider how to achieve the family estate as quickly as possible. – This is the statement of an expert who, as has been said, has been heard in the Committee. Furthermore, the opposition is based only on two points: The country's representatives – there's already a contradiction, because first you say it wasn't a country's referent, and then you're based on the country's experts – say that the current law is so great anyway, it's enforceable and practical. In the Committee, in expert hearing, we have only heard the opposite: that it is not practical and not feasible. The Committee also expressed the opinion of the representative of the municipality of Vienna, who obviously joined the Federal Council. You must be careful of what this representative of the municipality of Vienna has said. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] This representative of the municipality of Vienna said: We cannot really examine in Vienna the grounds for refusal – that is why citizenship is not granted – since 16 000 applications are submitted in Vienna; we have neither the time nor the opportunity to review these applications. – That means simply breaking the law, you don’t comply with the law! It is similar with the German knowledge. These are not asked because there are so many applications. But this does not matter to the representative of the municipality of Vienna: People get citizenship. In Vienna, the number is very high; I think it was 15 000 in Vienna alone, who received citizenship. [[Abg. Ellwall: 18,000...!]] Interestingly, this representative says: In Vienna applications for the award of Austrian citizenship have been rejected only in five cases for lack of German knowledge. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Each of us knows a lot of people who know the Austrian passport – now: EU passport – have in hand and have no German knowledge. There the municipality of Vienna has simply granted without checking the conditions. That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. The opposition also states that it is unnecessary intensification. I can only point out that we want the laws to be respected and that there is a law that will be implemented in such a way that there is no detour around it and that one does not say: We cannot examine the proposals in detail, because it is quite simply too many. We must try to ensure that those who gain citizenship are truly integrated, that they have their own income, that they speak the national language, and that they have a legitimate stay in Austria. Mrs Weinzinger, you have complained that children can no longer get citizenship. According to the law in force, a child does not even have to prove his rightful residence in Austria and is already receiving citizenship. It really can't be that! We have now put everything on the basis that everyone has to prove the rightful stay here in Austria, only then he gets citizenship. Citizenship must be the final light of integration. It is also necessary to have and prove the German knowledge. Someone who can't get German, someone who can't speak the national language can't take part in life. He can't get a decent job, he can't deal with the teachers in schools, he's just excluded. We in my group are committed to the so-called intensification. Those who are long enough in Austria and meet all the conditions are to be granted Austrian citizenship, and the others have to wait so long until they have fulfilled the conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16887	Mrs Hlavac is now speaking to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16908	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said this in the first debate on this subject: This novelle is unnecessary, it is counterproductive. It is unnecessary because there are hardly any early awards at all, and it is counterproductive because, in this way, the people who want to acquire Austrian citizenship, who live in Austria, who work here in Austria, are only faced with difficulties and, in reality, in no way It takes into account how far they have already been integrated. If you say that the award of citizenship should be the conclusion of a successful integration, I wonder why the criterion of sustainable personal and professional integration for awarding is deleted after six years. This would have been something that makes sense that there is an additional incentive for integration. But that is what will be abolished, there should be no more exceptions. I find that very unfortunate. As far as the children are concerned, I think it makes sense that if the parents get citizenship, this also applies to the children. If the German note in the school certificate now decides whether a child receives citizenship or not, I think it is absurd and cynical. They have addressed the language courses and the need for people to learn German. That is something we do not question in any way. Especially Vienna is doing a lot here and is exemplary. There are many language courses in Vienna, much more than anywhere else, and all these language courses are booked out. The city of Vienna is not at all able to offer as many courses as there is a need for them. This means that people are very interested in learning the language and integrating themselves. Vienna shows how it is to be done; the Wiener Modell is undoubtedly an exemplary model, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. If you now address the figures of citizenship as the reason for this innovation, I must remind you that the number of citizenships has now decreased again. Only a few days ago, the new figures were presented: Citizens have gone down without these novels. Why did this happen? – Because the many people from the former Yugoslavia, who have found refuge in us, are now citizens. The fact that this naturalization was correct was that it was right to give these people the opportunity to live in Austria, it will hopefully not question anyone here. [[Abg. It's not about this one! It's been done for a long time!]] In conclusion, as follows: This novel is counterproductive. It would have been better to follow the proposal of the Federal Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16949	Mr Ellmauer is the next speaker. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e16970	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The number of awards of Austrian citizenship has grown very high in recent years. If there were still 24 320 people in 2000, the number was already 44,694 in 2003. There is therefore a need for action to counter abuse accordingly and to advance integration. Now, briefly, to the focus of this novel: Citizenship only with appropriate language skills and basic knowledge of the democratic order and history of Austria and the respective federal state, uniformizing the deadlines for obtaining Austrian citizenship as well as legitimate residence and security of living without transfers. This ensures the integration of the new Austrians, and these are important points for the achievement of citizenship, especially since these important rights, such as the right to vote, are linked. On the other hand, this novel provides for important measures to combat abuse in order to prevent the release of citizenship by decriminal counterfeiting, false certificates or shaming. It is surprising, therefore, why this is clearly put on delay tactics. Instead of acting, the opposition always tries to push everything to the long bank. With the blockade of social democrats and Greens in the Federal Council, thousands more can come into the country with some dubious documents than we could prevent through the law. If you look through today's and tomorrow's agenda, you realize that seven important legislative instruments are unnecessarily delayed by some very questionable grounds for opposition of the Federal Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Austria does not let anyone down, who is really in need, proves the recent story. At the beginning of the war in Yugoslavia, some 90 000 Bosnians were admitted to Austria at the beginning of the 1990s, and more than 60 000 of them have already been integrated into Austria or have acquired Austrian citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For our society or for our citizens, it is of great importance that the award of Austrian citizenship be very carefully and thoughtfully regulated. This new law provides us with the basics.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17023	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. She wishes to speak for 3 minutes. [[There will be a short delay before the honourable Members turn to the floor.]] After that, the next speaker will be Markus Fauland. I'm asking you to get into the supply rooms because otherwise we'll be sitting here until 3:00 in the morning. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17056	Thank you, Mr President, but I think there has been a change in the list of speakers. Mrs. Minister! High house! We are now talking about the change in the citizenship law, and I think that Mr Ellmauer is not actually allowed to call the grounds for opposition of another legislative body questionable. I think the reason is very clear. [[Violent calls to the ÖVP and to representatives of the liberals.]] If you would just read the statement of reasons! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of integration or citizenship, you are always talking about the need to tighten up above all in order to ensure the successful integration of foreign citizens. – I think that’s very strange. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister has at all said that it is very important for those people who gain citizenship to feel at home, at home and, above all, integrated in Austria. I think that sounds pretty good, Mrs. Minister. But it sounds very, very surprising to me, when one looks at the citizenship law, which clearly and irrevocably brings real intensification to the very restrictive citizenship law that we have. No one in this House can really believe that extended deadlines and new obstacles are a positive signal to our foreign citizens or also a positive signal to the Austrians for the people seeking citizenship. I don't think – and I don't think that You can think of this – that the way we talk about foreign citizens is right, even here in this House and again today, if I recall Mrs Partik-Pablé's speech, which all foreign citizens would like to put into the Social-Smarotzer corner somehow, or by colleagues Lopatka, who simply juggle with numbers that do not vote. [[Abg. Fauland: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: These are precepts!]] – She said it! [[Interlocutory calls to the ÖVP and to representatives of the liberals.]] I do not think that this kind of discussion can create an open climate in our country... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't even watch!]] I've been watching! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I said that's what an expert said! I said that!]] I do not think that this kind of discussion can create an open climate in our country so that integration can actually take place in our country. That doesn't help. I think that only contributes to the fact that there can be more resentments against foreign people in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Stay with the truth, please!]] Integration, Mrs Partik-Pablé, means more than just talking about German. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: An expert who has to do with citizenship every day said that!]] It means, above all, a process that – which is so well-founded in social policy – is a process through which previously outsiders or groups can become members of a larger social group. However, integration does not mean perfect assimilation, but it also means that those groups that are to be recovered may retain their own identity. You talk – I have at least this impression – in political everyday life, when you speak of integration, mainly of assimilation. This is not my understanding of integration. In this context, I would like to give you a few thoughts to conclude, namely synonyms on “integration”. “Integration” means inclusion, integration, integration. And the answers are: Absorbing, decoupling, exclusion, isolation and isolation. Perhaps all of us who are in political mandates should be more aware of these thoughts when we talk about integration. I am convinced that our statements contribute a lot to how in Austria the climate is in dealing with foreign fellow citizens. In my opinion, we have the responsibility to create a positive climate.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17195	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17217	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the European People's Party. With reference to the statements of social democracy, I was very pleased today that the passport law of the sense of reality of the social democrats has just sprung up and one has asked for a topic which is really necessary in this case. But how often we were taught here in the shortest time of a better one: The statement that there is no need for an optimization of citizenship law is certainly not sustainable. If it says that criticism of the Federal Council was expressed here, I must say that this criticism was certainly justified. For if you look at the opinion of the Federal Council, you can see: That was very, very poor. As far as Mr Hlavac's statement is concerned, I would like to make a few comments on this very good integration policy in Vienna. Let's take a look at the realities. We have a ghetto formation through immigration, through the concentration in individual districts, and in these ghettos one is not spoken, namely German. We therefore have a massive limitation of German knowledge. But one, ladies and gentlemen, should be clear to us: The German language and the knowledge of the German language is probably the first stage for a reasonable integration, and without language knowledge there can be no integration! [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] As far as integration is concerned, integration must also be seen as the end of a path. It is not the beginning of a path, but the end of a path of people who want to gain Austrian citizenship, and at the end of this whole process is integration. Austrian citizenship is just a valuable asset, and you have to work out a valuable asset. Therefore, integration cannot be a one-way road, but it must also be expected that those people who want to gain Austrian citizenship will also meet us. That is why I believe that this draft law has created rules which, and I do not dispute, are certainly one of the most rigorous in the European Union, but which explain one thing: For us Austrian citizenship is valuable, and someone who wants to get it has to go a path, even if this path is sometimes covered with thorns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17269	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17290	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Language is the integration factor. Only those who learn the national language actually have access to the labour market and thus also opportunities in their new home country. In reality, the national language also allows social integration. I believe that a certain amount of pressure on learning is necessary at the beginning of immigration, citizenship. I would like to give you an example from practice, from my district, but probably this also works for you, in your environment. In many foreign families, the phenomenon is that women do not speak German in the second generation, often born in Austria, because this is not wanted by the family or the man, nor is it permitted. This is therefore an integration factor, especially for women. I don't understand: Why Decline For these reasons, do you disapprove of this citizenship law? Why should we not allow these people to learn German and do not exercise a certain pressure? – I do not understand your policy on this point. I think you're running total opposition here. It is also good, because you will also sit there for four years from November.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17327	Mr Bösch is now speaking. 4 minutes of welcome; he doesn't want to exploit them at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bösch on his way to the speaker's desk]] - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17354	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, and I will not vote in favour of this government proposal today. The same applies to Agenda item 13. We have already explained this at the meetings we had on this subject. I agree that there are some good approaches in this law. It cannot, however, take the last step towards real implementation. I believe that citizenship is such an important asset that we should deal with it much more carefully and also introduce a clear paradigm change legally. Paradigm change should be that the achievement of citizenship is not dependent on certain deadlines, but on the clear achievement of criteria for the one who wants to be established. We must also make it clear in the law that not only does society want integration, but it is also shown by those concerned that they want to be integrated. To promote both sides' willingness to integrate this will is, in our view, also to anchor it in the law. It can't be that in school classes where only 10 or 20 percent of German language is in control of the German language, there is a possibility of integration. The integration we are all talking about and we have been leading in our mouths for years, ladies and gentlemen, is also a matter of quantity in their feasibility. We shouldn't be careful of that. We should also harmonise and define clear rules at European level, Mrs. Ministers, citizenship schemes and immigration schemes within the framework of the European Union, ensuring that, in the next few years, it will not be possible to develop parallel societies in Europe, but also in Austria, parallel societies that develop not only themselves, but also in a radicality that surprises us all, our social order in Europe, but also in Austria. I would therefore also like to ask you to clarify at European level within the framework of the EU Presidency and also to make it clear that clear rules are needed by the European social order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17390	The last speaker was: Deputy Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am always surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that a debate on citizenship law is about integration, i.e. citizenship is seen as a means of integration. However, it is not an integration tool, but the award of citizenship is the last point after successful, completed integration. That is, I think, the mistake of thinking that some of you are making here, ladies and gentlemen. There is no longer any discussion as to whether to learn the language in the future, whether to integrate itself in the future, but since he or she already has to be fully integrated, he or she has to rule the German language completely, since he or she has to confess himself fully and unconditionally to this Republic of Austria and the value system that this Republic includes Austria. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I already know that you have a problem with this, because you want to see - and we have seen that in the Constitutional Convention - the Institute of Citizenship preferably abolished. All the people present here are equal. Of course, they are all equal, but not all equal, because there are human rights to all, and citizenship rights, which can only be granted to citizens, because this citizenship is not only linked to rights, but also obligations, obligations to the Community, obligations towards the Republic. That is why we differ here, and we are quite conscious. And I'll tell you: We are proud that with this strict citizenship law, we have given this very signal, namely that someone who wants to exercise the rights of a citizen must, of course, also fulfil the obligations and the criteria – and they have already been listed – must meet from A to Z. It is clear that we will not find your agreement here. We are proud of this regulation, which has been achieved in very difficult but ultimately good negotiations. The fact that the others are still too little may be. But it is important for us: There are no two categories of citizens! Whoever has this citizenship is Austrian as well as anyone else, but the way there must be defined accordingly and the criteria must also be met.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17454	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Committee on the Interior in 1342. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee shall submit the application, the original decision of the National Council of 6 June. December 2005 concerning a federal law that amends the citizenship law, the eradication law and the fee law (State Citizenship Law Novelle 2005). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That doesn't make him better!]] 018.24.1911. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Act 1986 and the Federal Finance Act 2006 and adopting the Civil Service Act 2006 (1343, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17493	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. The rapporteur, Mr Ellmauer, will make a pressurised correction, and I give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17511	Thank you, Mr President. I present the following print error correction to the Committee Report 1343 of the Supplements: In Article 1 Z 6, the quotation ‘§ 54 para. 4’ rightly ‘§ 55 para. 4’. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17529	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer was the first woman to speak. She speaks up to 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Freund: It speaks Colleague Wöginger!]] Here with me stands Baumgartner-Gabitzer and I give her the word! And my orders in this regard must be followed. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There's Baumgartner-Gabitzer! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer is on his way to the speaker's desk.]] I have to apologize! The wrong debate was started by the computer. In the case of civil service transfer rights, Deputy Wöginger is the first. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17573	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for your words. For two years, civil service has been dealt with intensively in Parliament: 2004 the establishment of a reform commission, 2005 the civil service novelist, which has made a significant improvement, a reduction in civil service from twelve months to nine months, and today the Civil Service Act 2006. I am particularly pleased that there is now a very positive final result, which is also borne by all the political groups in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What does today's law include, today's presentation? – Again, significant improvements for both civil servants and support organisations. For the Blue Light Organisations from 500 € to 580 € and for the Social Institutions from 310 € to 390 €, the federal government raises the flatrates for the support organizations by 80 € per month. ==References== The flat rates were increased by €70 this year. That is what we decided last July. So in total in a year there was an increase of 150 € for the support organizations! Our Federal Minister Prokop has reached this agreement with the institutions, and I think this is in a very excellent way because the institutions were involved in multiple rounds and discussions. I should like to express my sincere thanks to the support organizations, Mrs Bundesminister, for this kind of process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This money is also available retroactively per 1. February 2006 because since then the food regulation has entered into force. This regulation fully takes into account the constitutional court judgment of autumn 2005 by Mrs Federal Minister Prokop. There is either natural food for civilians or payment of up to € 13.60 per day. Discounts are possible: minus 15 percent for constant service or minus 10 percent each, if either a kitchen facility is available or there is a low physical activity. This law also deals with the old demands of civil servants. Civil servants operating from 2001 to 2006 shall have the possibility of asserting their claims until six months after the entry into force of this Act. The institutions shall pay the difference amounts upon notification and may recover up to €4.20 from the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. An example of a civil servant working at the Red Cross: €6 was paid by the organization. According to the new regulation, a civil servant at the Red Cross now receives €10.20. The difference amount is thus €4.20; the multiplied by 365 days results in an amount of €1,533. – A total of €100 million will be made available to civil servants by this law. What does the future regulation mean? – It is also very important to me. – Again in the example of a civil servant at the Red Cross in Upper Austria: With February 2006, he will receive €200 more than in February of the previous year, €74 more by raising the basic fee and €126 plus the increase of the fee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is really a great achievement for our civil servants. This law also means a very good result for the institutions. This is contrary to the opposition's requests, and I would like to conclude by stressing that. We discussed these yesterday in the Committee, and the SPÖ cost sharing model would have included paying €8 to €9 per day. This is between 240 and 270 €. The Greens have said that the support organisations should pay 350 € per month. Our proposal is: With us the federal government pays €8.50 per day for civil servants, and the rest is paid by the institutions, and that is €1.70 per day for the Blue Light and Social Institutions. Now I ask the question: Who has the better solution for civil service and support organisations? – These are the only ones and we alone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this scheme, civil servants receive as much money as never before, and the institutions also receive a very good discharge and therefore a very good solution. Therefore, there is a high degree of satisfaction between civil servants as well as support organisations. I know this from many conversations over the past few days and weeks. At the end of a very intense discussion a very positive, unanimous result for Austrian civil service – so we make politics, ladies and gentlemen, very much! I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17663	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. [[Abg. Friend: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Darabos) It's gonna be hard!]] 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17700	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Wöginger, I do not know what you were talking about. They confuse apples with pears. It's really incredible what you've delivered at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Lentsch: Now you can say what things are!]] The fact is: Today, it is about legally assigning the same money to civil servants, by means of legal measures. The SPÖ has achieved through two constitutional court proceedings that civil servants receive the money you have retained for over six years. That's why it's about no more and no less! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The good news is that today's legislative decision actually assigns this money to civil servants, and I am quite grateful to the Minister that, in this sense, after six years, she was at last ready to accept constitutional court judgments and assign to the civil servants the money that is due to them. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Finally a reasonable word!]] At least 40,000 to 50,000 people are affected. Today, this decision is about assigning an average of €2,000 to civil servants who have been deprived of them by the EIA and the government. In this respect, I say quite clearly, even if we already had a trade mark, a mesh discussion in the Committee on the Interior, so to speak, who is responsible for it: I am glad that the civil servants receive this €2,000 on average on the basis of the two proceedings at the Constitutional Court, which the SPÖ has put forth for civil servants, Mr Lopatka. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: We already heard that!]] It is also a fact that we have been fighting for years for this just problem care, and that will be recognized by the others, for it is clear that you have tried – and Minister Straster has also expressed this in public opinions – to deny civil servants their fair reward. It is nice that it has finally succeeded in fighting this just reward for the civilians. If we agree on this today in a four-party decision, we can say: Justice has won! But there are some mistakes in beauty, which I say quite openly. The civil service organisations believe that it will be relatively difficult to win this money, because today we also decide that this has to be done through the organisations. We as SPÖ will look very closely at the fact that civil servants – there are 40 000 to 50 000 in number – also come to their money. It's a nice day for civilians. Whoever wants to put up a political hat for it, it is so to speak allowed. The fact is: This has been achieved on the basis of the Constitutional Court judgments and on the basis of the SPÖ's struggle. We are happy about this and see this day, which is also decided by law, as a good day for civil servants.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17775	Mr Fauland is now speaking for 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17797	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There's some kind of a little mesh fight going on. This reminds me a little bit of a sand box in which different scenes are inside and one starts to argue about the scavengers. Then, following my speech, Mr Haidlmayr will stress that it was only the greens who made this possible. But let's put that down. The facts speak for themselves: There has been a constitutional court of law, and this knowledge has been implemented. Thank you to Mrs Bundesminister for being able to do so in this short time. Today, we decide retroactively for the civilians, and they – and this, Mr Darabos, cannot be left in the room as such – not to withdraw the money, but to increase the money very well transmitted on the basis of the legal situation at that time, simply on the basis of the findings of the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. May. Worm: There were several!]] It is almost presumptuous to claim or assume an intention that we or the Mrs Federal Minister would have abstained from the money. This law will be passed today. Civil servants will then receive up to € 13.60. As a military, let me also say one thing: It is of course also interesting for the recruits and also an interesting legislation, if one considers that a recruit has only €3.40 a day, with which the Austrian federal army must then find the way out so that it is spoiled. 13.60 € is only the highest rate for a recruit of the Austrian federal army if it is eaten somewhere – entrepreneurship food calls itself – in a guest house. That is why I would also like to see, in the sense of equal rights, that, as far as this is possible, natural care is used in order not to create injustices with which we will eventually have to deal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17831	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Your welcome time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17853	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We don't need to play the game: Who put something on the flag? We don't need to attach it to our flags, because it was always our opinion. We don't need to attach anything that was always clear! To document this, I would like to remind you – Mr Fauland has not been in Parliament for so long – that he cannot know how history has gone – that it was only the greens who have always existed on the 13,60 €, and that since 2000. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From this line I am not a millimeter – up to date, and now we have reached it. Because Mr. Wöginger said you were so good and you didn't do everything: I don't know if you're still on the 1st, Mr. Wöinger. ==References== At that time, there was a study by Mr Pfannhauser – perhaps you can remember – and then there was a broadcast from your colleague Matthias Ellmauer, in which said: Opinion supports previous findings: €4.88 per day and civilian officers would be enough. So that means: 4,88 € you have so far awarded the Zivis to no more cents, but no less than a cent. However, it is not possible to live around €4.88. It's official, a paper from 1st century. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not official!]] You can then have the copy right away to perhaps pick it up for memory. Now to the SPÖ, who also pretends to have been, oh, so good. You agreed last year to a civil service novel that did not guarantee the €13.60 for civilian officers. You said: All right, then it's only six, rather six, than nothing, but we agree to the Civil Service Act! They have also done so and have not only shocked civilian officers but also betrayed them. The only ones who have kept their line are the Greens, and I am really proud of that, quite honestly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The judgment of the Constitutional Court of October 2005 also shows that we Greens have kept a right with our request. The Constitutional Court has prescribed € 13.60 as the basis. Mrs Minister, that is exactly the amount we have requested. They have now been forced by the Constitutional Court judgment to implement it. That is why we have to decide today on this novel – and not because the EIA has suddenly become generous and dispensable to civil servants – the liberals were not at all – and the SPÖ would have rethinked, but because the Constitutional Court has carried the demands of the Greens. We have always known that this is the only way, and this only way, which is also the only right one, is being implemented today. Mrs. Minister! In 47 cases, civil servants will report to you in the near future and have their money that you owe them since 2001. This is up to €2 500 per civil service unit. Mrs. Minister! It is embarrassing that in a Republic so rich, we have been avoiding this amount for five years and longer. I hope that the procedures will now be dealt with quickly and that the institutions will not allow an evil game and prevent or delay the disbursement to civil servants. I would also like to say one thing: In principle, I would like to have a further arrangement, but you are still in the government. It will change, and then we will change something – to the positive for civil servants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A major change, which is still necessary, concerns the payout mode. Mrs Minister, it is absolutely not and no one can see why the civil servants are on the gang of the organizations. They do not have a contract with the organizations. Sorry! They do civil service because the covenant requires it of them as a substitute for military service. Therefore, they must also be financed by the federal government and not by the institutions. That means quite specifically: Civil servants must be paid out by the federal government and, as was the case in the past, the institutions should deliver their costs to the federal government. The 350 € you have so criticized is not an invented amount, but exactly the amount specified by the Blue Light Organisations, namely the amount which they are currently costing a civil servant in the month, in accordance with the old regulation and not the new one with 13.60 €. The Blue Light Organisations have said that they have a cost of €360 per month per civil servant. If they pay this cost one to one to the federal government, they have a zero sum game, yes, they have a plus, because then the entire administration is regulated by the federal government and the institutions can save personnel costs and other costs. That means that this would not only be an advantage for the organization, but also a “relief” – under quotation marks – for the institutions, which you have not yet heard, just as you have needed for the increase of the food allowance for five years until it was in your heads and until you got it. Maybe I have illusions, but I think you can be trusted that you can still get that and we'll be standing here in a few years and you'll say: We're so great, now we pay the civil servants off and the facilities we pay off by paying only €350 to the federal government. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gahr: You should understand that your choice of words is not all right!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What should we hear?]] It takes his time. We'll give it to you, but not too long. You can rely on that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17955	The next speaker is Mr Lopatka. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e17976	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was John F. Kennedy who once said that the victory has many fathers – and even today we have this situation, because of course there is something to be welcomed here by all of us, namely a very good arrangement for civil servants. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Kennedy has said a lot!]] But today I say a little salopp, this victory has above all a mother, that is the Minister of the Interior, because you have managed not only to reach a four-party agreement, but also – and this distinguishes me from my previous speaker – to find a solution with which the carriers are also satisfied. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] I tell you, the performance and the work of civil servants is very important for us. [[Abg. May. Worm: But you only needed the Constitutional Court!]] But also the interaction with the carriers – you should not forget that completely – is of enormous importance to our society. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Why did you first need the Constitutional Court?]] Whether these are the blue light organizations, whether this is the popular aid, whether this is the caritas, whoever, these are very important institutions. There we are now at a solution with which we can all be satisfied. That is also the reason why you agree with this solution. I have not now understood from your side that the attacks have come in this form, because what has succeeded here, Minister of the Interior Prokop, shows that we are on the right track. [[Abg. Dr. One: The Constitutional Court has succeeded!]] We've shortened the civil service. Because the former Minister is reporting to one of them in between: SPÖ ministers have never shortened civil service. [[Abg. Dr. One: Because the ÖVP failed!]] I just want to remind you of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, that's it. [[Abg. Broukal: Why that was so, we can remember that already, Mr. Colleague!]] Mr Broukal has also woken up. It is true that we have, of course, done this in a form that we can answer. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's how you really are!]] In fact, we are: We're doing something for the civil servants and the civil servants! You're right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You only try to defame personally!]] We do something not only in the reduction of civil service, but also in the financial field. Look forward to finding this solution together. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Be glad that we have gone through the process, otherwise you could not say that now!]] Well, I'm sure not. We have always said that we have a clear timetable: Reduction of civil service, then we see what comes from knowledge, and then we act. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh, that's it!]] Yeah, that's the way it is and not the way it is. Now we've acted. Have a good time with us. Civil servants will rejoice. We have found a good solution here together. A warm thank you to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18156	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18219	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out once again, Mr Lopatka, that there is very much a constitutional court knowledge...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18235	Mr Parnigoni, the measure has soon been reached with you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Wurm is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18259	... a Constitutional Court of Justice has required knowledge so that the government has finally become active, and it has taken a long time to finally implement these constitutional court knowledge. That's the grief of this story. Now, thank God, I say, ladies and gentlemen, there is a compromise proposal, which we too agree with. But we are not really excited and totally satisfied for a long time, so I am talking about a compromise here. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You're always running!]] Yeah, you say we're always running. If you don't like something, it says rauncing, and if you do something that everyone should like, then everyone should rejoice. Democracy doesn't work like that, Dr. Lopatka! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We now, after considering all the fore and resistors, have gone on to agree to this provision. 40,000 to 50,000 civilians are affected. Reimbursement is €2,000 per civil servant, which is a lot of money for a young person. That was a reason for us and for me so that we can finally end this long and sad spectacle, Dr. Lopatka. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Constitutional Court – I quote – has, in its knowledge of 15. In November 2004, it was found that the fee for civil servants of €6 per day is too low. The Constitutional Court stated in the statement that the same rules for military service were applicable and not the rules for the supply of asylum seekers, as was suggested by the Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP. – I would like to say: It is an absurd idea to want to balance the remuneration of civilian servants with the expenses for asylum seekers. That's a really absurd idea! The Constitutional Court made it clear that civil servants are entitled to € 13,60 per day. Now it is true that the total recoveries amount to approximately €100 million, in old currency they are 1.3 billion schilling, which the civil servants were prevented from doing in 2001 to 2005. This can and must also be said, ladies and gentlemen. Let me conclude by saying that civil servants are not only tolerated but have a very important function in our state. They are not cheap workers, they deserve our highest appreciation for their contribution to rescue, disaster aid, social and disability assistance, old-age and health care and other important areas of life. They have now become a pillar of our social state, our community. They should be thanked for this, so we agree with the bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18315	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 2 minutes speaking time. – The next speaker is Jochen Packund then Vinzenz Liechtenstein, each two minutes. – The arrival takes two minutes, Mrs. Colleague. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18339	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that, after we have been able to carry on a great deal further for young people both in the field of attendance and civil service in recent months, it is all the more gratifying that we now have to conclude, even though the Committee on the Interior has had to be interrupted once, in order to be able to continue, even though the SPÖ has today attached its success to its flags – you should not have been able to delay, but to agree as soon as possible, Mrs Trunk, then it would have gone a little faster and easier – today we agree that we must do something good for civil servants. We have reduced civil service time by a quarter to nine months, there is a voluntary extension to twelve months. We have also opened civil service to women. The flat-rate remuneration was increased by € 71 to € 256 in comparison to the presence service. And today we also decide on the food allowance scheme, which can and will apply to future civil servants, but also to those who have been calling themselves former civil servants since 2001. This is a fair rule, and I believe that there should also be no dispute here, who said it first, who will say it last. The fact is: The Federal Minister is the one who led to the agreement with the institutions of the institutions. it has. That was not easy at all, and that is why it is also very high. I would also like to thank you very much for this, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18371	Next speaker: Mr Pack. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18393	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the civil service allowance to be paid by the federal government and the possibility for former civil servants to receive a repayment of the fee are really a great success for our youth. After improvements in the presence service – keyword: Reduction to six months – the Federal Government has now also achieved further improvements in civil service. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18438	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pack, by Mr Wöginger, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Darabos, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr President, on the evaluation of the system of civilian services, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18492	The last speaker was: Mr. Dr. Pilz. His welcome time is 20 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18514	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how the speakers of the ÖVP come to the absurd idea of calling the current regime a success of the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fauland.]] If there's a success here, then that's exceptional – exceptionally! – both government parties comply with a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's all it is. Congratulations! - First of all. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank you!]] Secondly, If it had happened after you, we would still have a discussion about whether the food and nutrition of civilians is sufficient at all. The Austrian Constitutional Court must meet to ensure that civil servants, whose work They have suddenly discovered that there are enough calories per day at all, because the Federal Government and the government parties refuse to pay them part of the necessary calories for forced labour in the service of the Austrian state. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does “compulsory work ” mean?]] And this is a success of the Federal Government? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What do you mean by “compulsory work ”?]] So, and now we're still talking. Forces, ladies and gentlemen, are prohibited under the Convention on Human Rights. With a single exception – there is perfect justice to Mr Scheibner – that is the obligation to do so. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Civil service call you “compulsory work ”?]] This makes the Convention on Human Rights a great exception. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your speech is a compulsion!]] If I hear what is discussed in the committees, I note: Have had earlier They always said that civil servants are pressing ahead of military service, making it easy and so on. Today, you argue with civil service in order to be able to justify the military service at all, because you can no longer justify why there is a general obligation to do so. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: It is well justified, only the Pilz Member does not know!]] The ÖVP, the Freedom Party and the BZÖ have discovered the civil service. We've come that far now. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] However, the justification for military service will not be maintained because, by 2008 at the latest – and again in the Committee, the Minister of the Interior has pointed out – the new members of the European Union will join the so-called Schengen area at the northern and eastern borders of the Republic of Austria, thus avoiding the need for the assistance of the German army and thus the last security-political justification for the military service. They will then not be able to make it clear to young people or the economy that young men are being pulled out of training or from the beginning of professional development, just to stand around and sit around, although no one can tell them what this is good for. Every reasonable person – it is not about party membership – knows that it is a damage to the economy and a harm to the education system to maintain the presence service against any security-political reason. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will be faced with the question by 2008 at the latest – not who replaces the work of the present servants, because it becomes superfluous, but –: Who replaces the work of civil servants? For if the service falls, the civil service also falls. And you haven't prepared for it again. However, civil service will have to be abolished together with the presence service, and civil service is currently nothing but an indiscriminate castration of a long-standing care emergency by a social force. That's the problem. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You said “compulsory work” earlier!]] And if social forced service is gone, we have an acute care emergency from one day to another. [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of car stand?]] Don't tell us! You, Mr Scheibner, and your party colleagues, will probably not be responsible for government. Whoever then carries responsibility for government will then face an acute care emergency, which is the main responsibility of the current Federal Government. What does security policy mean? – Security policy is to be seen not only militaryly, but also in the interests of old and sick people in need of care. Security policy means, in time and in time, planning so that it does not come to this care emergency. That is, to train in good time, to qualify people in good time, to convince young people in good time that there are professional perspectives in the exercise of the care profession, and also the possibility of qualifications, income and professional reputation, that the care professions are up-to-date and so on. This is security policy and not a commitment to something that ends, namely the general obligation to do so. What we decide today is just a few more calories you didn't want to admit to civilian servants. This is not a success, but we owe it to the Constitutional Court that the people are at least decent, under the measure of some sort of satisfactory commitment, in the event of a poorly paid service. – But it’s about something completely different, it’s about the future of caring for old and sick people. It is about a core area of security, namely social security in Austria. It's really a shame that you haven't even broken your head for a minute. In 2008, the care situation is coming, and the next government will have to do what politicians and politicians like you have put in. [[Abg. Lentsch: Don't worry!]] The only hope is that this new, other government will have conditions for the electorate to make something really different, because then we will be able to solve the problem of attendance service and the problem of civil service late, but not only in the sense of young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18702	Mr Scheibner has now spoken. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18723	Mr President. Of course, this dangerous threat has to be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard some of the red-green government programme on security policy – the election campaign is already accompanying us. If this comes from some desired form of government, then the first step will be the de facto abolition of the federal army – that is what we have heard now – and the abolition of civil service, because – and there, Mr Pilz's right – if the general military obligation is abolished, then the constitutional basis for compulsory civil service falls. These are the first programme points. Mr Pilz, you were in the Federal Reform Commission. They voted in favour, and the obligation to do so was included accordingly. So, what's the matter now? – Are you the fungus in the Federal Force Reform Commission or the fungus in the waiting room for the ministerial post? – These are questions you have to answer here! Do not act as if you were presenting serious security policies, nor do you pretend that Austria would come into an emergency if the civilians were to fall away! No one says that the civilians are blackmailers! Mr Pilz, you are acting as if the civil servants could or should replace professionally qualified nursing staff, that is just as wrong, you know that very well. In order to avoid a care emergency, it is not enough to employ civilian servants, but we need highly qualified care staff. And we also ensure that we have improved the criteria and training in particular for the care service and ensure that the entry is improved accordingly. This is an active policy in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They also know quite well that there have been some 3,000 civilian servants at the time of the Civil Service Commission, after which the number has increased exorbitantly, and they have tried hard to find, ladies and gentlemen, that waiting times in civil service are not too long, different areas of action that have nothing to do with constitutional reality. It is therefore important to ask the question of the benefits of civilian servants – that is, those who are in charge of military service in truth, civil servants – then to sit in any office or to do auxiliary work, only to save some organizations the staff. This could be questioned, ladies and gentlemen. They say that those responsible for military service are useless, they would harm the economy, and they are harmed themselves. You have said before – I remember very well to the discussion in 2002 – 6 000 soldiers are enough. A few weeks later, I did not hear anything more from you than we used 12,000 persons, in the majority of the military officers, to give the Austrians the necessary help in the flood disaster. There's nothing left to hear about this campaign. I too believe that we must move step by step away from the general obligation of military service towards a voluntary thought, a voluntary army, towards professional soldiers and also volunteers in the military system. However, as long as the money, infrastructure and the necessary legal bases are not created, we must rely on the general obligation to do so. Unfortunately, this military obligation has already been reduced by two months without a basis. As you know and as Mr Murauer correctly described, there are already problems with the snow disaster, ladies and gentlemen, but these are just the realities. Whoever tries to organize party polemics and distribute election sugar – no matter what the party – is at risk of the country's security. Headlines are quickly rewritten, political speeches are quickly forgotten, but the people in serious cases cannot give the help, which is then rightly demanded that a politician should answer first. I don't want to. As you can see, it's your business. I'm just saying that's one point more that we need to prevent this red-green adventure coming to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18777	Mr Pilz has made a further statement. 13 minutes legal time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e18799	Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But don't go home afterwards when you talk!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner, I would like to have you explain as your party's care expert: How should the highly qualified caregivers in the various institutions of the Republic carry out their work if the care services, which are fought to a large extent by civilian servants, suddenly cease to exist? How should the nurses work in the hospitals? [[Abg. Scheibner: You want the abolition!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] We do not even talk about whether there are enough people there today and whether they are paid well enough, that is another chapter. [[Abg. Scheibner: You demand the abolition!]] It is about how these people should work if the Blue Light organizations, especially the Red Cross, can no longer maintain their travel services and so on. There is no care without care services, that should have been talking to the care spokesperson Scheibner. - That's the first one. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you want to abolish civil service!]] The second is: There's no transition. Schengen comes, Schengen II comes, the eastern extension of the Schengen area comes from one day to the next. There is an hour zero, and from that hour on there will be no more assistance, because the boundaries will no longer be guarded. There is no slow transition in assistance, there is no slow transition in the service, and there is no slow transition in civil service. That's from a hundred to zero. This will probably take place in 2008, at the latest in 2009. Nevertheless, you continue to say: Attendant. Do we need this for the flood, for a flood that takes place every few years? Are we making young men out of combat tanks for this? [[Abg. Fauland: That's incredible!]] Are we making young men out of far-reaching artillery for this? Are we young men in the fight for this? Do we continue to obtain tank guns, storm guns to be able to transport bags in good time in case of floods from A to B? You can't organize this cheaper and more meaningful? That's your concept of flood control? If we have nothing else to do with the employment of our war tanks, then must the high-throat and the century avalanches hold for it? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is annihilation of the soldiers of our federal army!]] That's the concept? That's the future of the federal army? [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you want to get rid of it?]] I would like to place the Austrian army on a more solid basis than on the Scheibner's floodwaters and the Schüssel's avalanches. This is a very poor and thin basis for maintaining Austrian armed forces. We in the Federal Force Reform Commission – and we have even convinced some of them of it – have developed something quite different, namely a concept for participation in international peace forces with highly specialized men and women, who can help with UN mandates where the use of military forces needs. [[Abg. Murauer: Also!]] There is no place – there's an opinion – for presenters, since the presence service does not have a function at all, as well as the Eurofighters. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is it then?]] What remains for armed forces in the interior, apart from the high-thousanded centuries and the avalanche? What are there people present with training on weapons? – There is obviously an old freedom principle regarding the employment of present-day servants following the date of accession to Schengen II. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Stich hour!]] – This old principle means: Greet everything that moves, clean everything that doesn't move. Something else will not be left for presenters then. There is no security policy task! Do you really think that you can convince young men and their families to relocate into a barracks for half a year, even though they want to continue studying, to learn a profession, to enter the profession, to start their career, perhaps want to take care of their families? [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is red-green!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Remember, the command “Go into the barracks! sitting around for half a year is a message to the young men of this republic? Do you think that, according to all that we have heard about the education system, about the conditions in the Gehrer Ministry, it needs another supplementary programme for young men, namely, six months without meaning to be sitting around in barracks? - That's completely absurd! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] You know you don't keep that! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Pilz, you don't just keep it! You're pretty alone!]] I also represented the following position in the Federal Force Reform Commission – and it was true that there was no majority for this because of the representatives of the Federal Government –: We must prepare for the exit from the 2008 presence service, but not because of the Austrian federal army. They would not even notice the new armed forces if there were no more present servants, but there are only reasons for social security. And it is a question of how important it is to a nursing service – that sounds so little – how important it is to you that it works at least as well after 2008 as today. Mr Scheibner, once again: This is security policy to prepare in time for it and not to divert from the coming problems of the Austrian Republic in the social areas with a completely outdated German army populism. Try to distance yourself from your old client policy once and recognize a problem in time. In 2008, the presence in Austria will be abolished by 2009 at the latest. There will be no more majority in favour. And if you do not create the conditions for maintaining the care of old and sick people, then others will have to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19010	The debate continues with Mr Scheibner's second speech. 3 minutes welcome; 14 minutes legal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19032	Mr President. The debate is quite exciting, because it is precisely now that there is a fundamental political distinction that is important. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: They're just interested in both of you!]] – Mr Commissioner, I hope that this is not just a matter for both of us. Especially your party should also confess to these principles that the home country is something of a protective value and that you should make a personal contribution to it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz, this is exactly what we are talking about. If you're asking if I think there's any more people sitting in a barracks instead of studying, I have to say, Yeah, I hope so. And that is also one of my basic policy approaches when I started security policy. I would like to work to ensure that precisely these principles are maintained in this country, that we want to make a personal contribution to the community, not as a burden, but as a joy, as a challenge, regardless of whether this is the case with the social services, whether it is with the voluntary fire brigade, the Red Cross, in caricatative organizations or also with the Austrian federal army. One should make a personal contribution to the protection and further development of Austrian society. I hope so, and I believe that in contrast to you, Mr Pilz, this is also an ideological difference. If you, like you and how many here in this half of the House, have explained for years and decades the population and youth: You do not have to take responsibility for the community yourself, because all of this is taking away your society, the state or perhaps the political parties and their organizations!, then we do not need to be surprised that precisely these voluntary organizations have more and more problems getting sufficient volunteers. Mr Pilz, it is my goal to refrain from military service if we achieve it by means of appropriate principle work and also by creating framework conditions that sufficient volunteers are available in the social services and in the Austrian federal army and contribute freely to maintaining the security of this country. This is my ideological and fundamental policy approach, which I will continue to pursue. I will like to distinguish myself from those who say this commitment, this personal commitment, in which one puts one's own health and, if necessary, even life at risk for society, be resuming, fading or whatever. That's where I like to distinguish from you! I'll tell you one thing: Hopefully this distinction remains long, so that we can win many Austrians without intervening from the other areas to work and work exactly according to these principles.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19074	Mr Murauer has now spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19096	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dr. Pilz, it is unlikely, even though you may now be grumbling with joy, that you are telling us today that military service is “compulsory work” that civil service is “compulsory service”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He said that!]] Mr Pilz, I reject this in the sense of these young people who commit themselves to military service or civil service, and in the sense of each individual. Perhaps once you will be very happy for a service done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We from the Austrian People's Party, of course, confess our commitment to general military service. They were in the Bundesheerreforms Commission and have also agreed to all the strategic bases laid down there. And among them was also the general obligation of military service, and from that we can derive God's thanks to the service of military service. We will be able to train young men in the future, we want and must, because we are finally obliged to do so from the Constitution. We have taken on obligations both domestically and abroad, Dr. Pillow, which you should take note of. It would be a pleasure if you would stand by what you have decided in the Reform Commission. The differences of the individual parties are already apparent to God in all clarity. Ladies and gentlemen! You of the Greens are against the Federal Army. I have always said so, even if other shawls have come from you, Dr. Pilz! And after the applause – I have also seen applause on the social democratic side – the SPÖ is also opposed. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Inwardly you were happy, I have seen that!]] That's all right, and there's just the difference. Red and green are this opinion, and we from the People's Party are for the Federal Army, for the general military service, for the protection and help of our people and for our Austria. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's not true! Truth is forbidden!]] That's the difference we're going to explain to voters, even if you don't want to, gracious woman!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19182	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1343 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign at the same time. – The draft law also receives the unanimous approval of the House at third reading and is thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Darabos, Mr Haidlmayr, Mr President, on an evaluation of the system of civil service provision. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is done unanimously and is therefore unanimously adopted. (E 172.) [[19:21:28]] 12. Point The Federal Council's opposition of 25 June 1989 was based on the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament and of the Commission. January 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 6 June 2006. December 2005 concerning a Federal 13. Point The Federal Council's opposition of 25 June 1989 was based on the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States of the Member
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19256	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. With regard to these objections of the Federal Council, the Constitutional Committee had a period of up to 24 years. It was set up for reporting on 1 February 2006. Negotiations on these items should therefore be opened at this meeting. There is no wish for oral reporting. We are entering the debate. It is not Mr Wöginger who is now on the list of speakers, but Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19290	Mr President, on this issue I really feel called to take the floor, not to the Civil Service Act – this makes Mr Wöginger. I will say very briefly to the opposition of the Bundesrat concerning the Registering Act. I have, of course, dealt with the opposition of the Federal Council, and it is quite interesting to follow up the political discussion. This registration law, which we have already adopted here, has basically welcomed all parties, although the opposition parties have not agreed here, on the grounds that data protection problems are against it. For precisely these reasons, the opposition parties have also objected to the Federal Council; the opposition was further justified by the claim that data from the countries and municipalities are linked by means of the registry, thus causing a great deal of concern to these countries and communities and the relationship of trust between citizens and administrations to be disrupted. In terms of content, nothing is right. If you look at the opinions of the countries and the municipalities, especially the countries, in the review process, you will see quite clearly that this is a point that has never actually been relevated. On the contrary: The only ones who have dealt with this problem of the linkage and the affectedness of the data of the countries were the Vienna, and they have only provided legitimate suggestions for this. As a result, the accusation that there would be data protection problems here, or the whole claim of the Federal Council – in reality the opposition – is nothing but a delay; you cannot prevent it. And here I tell you: I am sorry if the Federal Council is used as a very important instrument of federal legislation to make such political players. I therefore make the following requests: Request [[according to § 77 GOG]] by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bucher, Colleagues, on the opposition of the Federal Council of 25 May. January 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 6 June 2006. December 2005 concerning a Federal Act on the implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungsstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Reporting Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act (1283 d.b.) The National Council wants to decide: ==References====External links==* Official website December 2005 concerning a Federal Act on the implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Reporting Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act, shall be amended in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 B-VG repeated. Request [[according to § 77 GOG]] by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Bucher, Colleagues, on the opposition of the Federal Council of 25 May. January 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 6 June 2006. December 2005 concerning a Federal Act amending the Constitutional and Residence Law: The National Council wants to decide: ==References====External links==* Official website In December 2005 concerning a federal law amending the Constitutional and Residence Law shall be amended in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 B-VG repeated. To read this was necessary in order to take account of the circumstances so that we can pass this law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19382	Mr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Bucher, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer's request, which was just tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, and the opposition of the Federal Council of 25 March. In January 2006 against the Constitutional and Residence Act in 1284, the Supplements are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the opposition of the Federal Council of 25 May. January 2006 against a federal law on the implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Notification Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act, is sufficiently supported in 1283 the Supplements and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wittmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19416	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in this register law, unfortunately, the child was poured out with the bath, which is why: In itself, there is nothing to stop a register counting – that would be a modern form of counting – but here there is already a special feature: In fact, reporting registers, social security registers, educational institutions, tax registers, labour market service, business registers and building and housing registers are linked. – That would not be tragic, too, but every administrative unit can produce its sector-specific personal identification – that would be all right – and can order a service provider to do so. However, this personal identification should remain within that administrative authority, and the production of data with a person should be carried out only in the administrative unit. But what did you do here? – The Ministry of the Interior has been made a service provider for all ministries, so that the Ministry of the Interior is able to link all these sector-specific personal labels with personal data. That is, in reality, the Ministry of the Interior has the key to all personal data and can then link it up – which is not desired by a register law and has also been avoided in many international registry laws. One could even have taken private service providers or the ministries themselves, but the field-specific number of persons should only be available to the ministry, and there should be no place where one can link these numbers with personal data. We all know that, if such technical possibilities exist, even sometime the reference to the persons is made and thus a grid search for stocks is actually possible. I believe that here one shoots far beyond the goal of giving the Ministry of the Interior valuable data into the hand and ultimately the link between all these data in the Ministry of the Interior – and that's wrong! To make the Ministry of the Interior the service authority for the parent register authority is a data-protective dispassion. [[Abg. Broukal: Super-GAU!]] I believe that this law is really opposed, because the Ministry of the Interior, if it has the technical possibilities, must also create this link, if one believes there that one needs it – and one will also produce it. Technically, this is not a problem at all. In addition, this law also requires that, if the registers contain incorrect information, i.e. different information between the tax authority and the reporting register, one is even obliged to produce the personal relationship and thus even the order is given to provide all data. I think this is unnecessary and far beyond the goal. This law will concern us for a long time, as it has many, many abuses in it. This law must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19467	Mr Scheibner is now speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19489	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann's argument was already interesting. In fact, he said that an institution, a ministry, in this case the Ministry of the Interior, all the possibilities it has theoretically, will also be exploited, and this will probably be misused. Mr Wittmann, you are nodding now. I'd have hoped you said, You got me wrong! What experiences do you have with the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Wittmann? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: As the Schelm thinks, he is!]] For decades, the Ministry of the Interior was subject to SPÖ ministers, who were themselves in a SPÖ-led federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The driver's license polls were not an abuse?]] If I imagine that's what you're going to put to the Ministry of the Interior, I have to say: But then there is really fire on the roof, Mr Wittmann! If the Ministry of the Interior, if the security authorities take advantage of all the possibilities they have, then thank you! [[Abg. Broukal: Why can you rule this out?]] Then we don't need to make any phone calls anywhere, because there we'll be heard everywhere, then the existing data will be linked anyway, then we'll be constantly sniffed and whatever, and then all these data will also be made public. [[Abg. Broukal: Can you rule this out?]] I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that's not true, what you're saying to the Ministry of the Interior, what you put under the security executive. I assume that the institutions of the Republic of Austria are acting in accordance with the law – it seems not. If we assume that any regulation is misused, then we need nothing more at all, because: Any law can be broken, any regulation can be abused. Of course, you have to put in place appropriate protection and security mechanisms, but to say tax-free here, that is definitely being misused, I think it's cool – hopefully! – because otherwise I would have to think about it: What experience, what information do you have about the practice in this area that we do not have? We could then discuss this, Mr Wittmann. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Who did the abuse? Wasn't that a party colleague of yours? Small Service!]] Yeah, that would be a good story. That is where you can see how you are doing politics, how you use such things to get against politicians, and where, at the end of the day, nothing comes out, Mr Wittmann. It would also be interesting to consider: Where are your archives, where you say you already have a file about each of us, that you then pull out before the elections? - Ah, now he's laughing! Now we've caught him! That's your understanding of institutions, that's your understanding of data protection, but keep it. Please do so with you at the party headquarters. Keep this there, we don't want to hear that from us. We have confidence in the rule of law, we have confidence in the institutions of the Republic. We also have confidence in the Ministry of the Interior, and it's not true what you said that because this data is being thrown together somewhere and then the evil officer is looking for the sluggish hat and finding out the names he just needs to put this to some party headquarters. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Small Service!]] No, these data, which are summarized, are anonymous. And I'll tell you: I think this is reasonable because we know that we need censuses at regular intervals. There is, I believe, no discussion about this. And now there are two ways: Either we do the antique system as in the past and interview every 10 years with a huge burden, administrative burden, budget expenditure, each individual Austrian with these miserable questionnaires – or we use the modern techniques in the form of anonymizing things that have already been raised, and save the citizens much tax money and the Republic. – I think that makes sense – and your mistrust in the administration will be yours. Of course you have to control, you have to explain, but such a tax-free evasion, I think, we do not need to support here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19614	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19635	Dobar vecer! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! – Mr. State Secretary Morak, are you aware that you are here today as Federal Chancellor, as Minister of the Interior, in all kinds of functions? I'm glad. Meetings with you are always a pleasure to me. It shows, however, how seriously the government parties take this question of parliamentarianism, who takes what is serious. Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer says: That's preventing, that's delaying, it's terrible that the Federal Council is taking advantage of the legal possibilities! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] It's understandable that you don't like that. The fact that you do not take parliamentarianism seriously shows that the competent Federal Ministers are not present at the debate today. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It is the competent State Secretary...!]] I'm talking about the ministers. Mr Morak must always stand for everything. I'm sorry. Don't send me off, Maria! What can Mr Morak do for this? [[Abg. Mandak: He wanted to be State Secretary!]] Yes, State Secretary, but for art – for culture not – for art and media. This has to do with art and media in that it will be an art to create these links that Peter Wittmann spoke of. And now I am on the grounds why, as then, when the law was already passed in the National Council, and then in the committee, as before, I still reject this law, Herbert Scheibner because I do not wish to embarrass officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Police, at all, that the evil assumption that they are misused is applicable to them. Yes, how do Austria's police officers, staff members of the interior resort, get that this imagination, which is admitted now still fiction, could actually be reality? [[Abg. Scheibner: There must be no telephone station!]] How do they get to it? How do officials and officials come to see that we are incredibly complex and extremely expensive censuses, like the last ones in 2001 with the notes, the registration of the board of directors and all this dispassion, thank God, I say, abolish – this is a trend of time – and carry out a registration, but that is being taken as an occasion to carry out a possible search of grid – and that is the keyword – the most sensitive data about the Austrian population, knowing that this is not good people doing this? [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: That's not true, you know that!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you can't do anything anymore!]] But can you guarantee, Herbert Scheibner, that in this Austrian interior resort, monitored by politics, only sitting good? I can't guarantee it. I can only tell you that I also want to protect officials from this, and that is one of the main reasons for my rejection, and that is also what the Federal Council of Ministers has defined with the possibilities it has, in this way, also in the opposition: What does the census have to do with the police? You, ladies and gentlemen, are doing this, and I reject it. I also reject – and this is the last – the local and residence law. – Is that already on the agenda? That is a good question, because it is also an objection.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19729	That's with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19744	Yeah, that's with you. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll bring you an agenda next time!]] I also reject this, because this with the foreign rights package is a coup, Mr Klubobmann Molterer! I don't mean pussy in the legal sense – not only in the legal sense, but also deeply in terms of content. The Pentecost was that on the same day that the law was passed, it was already brought in the novelle to this law. That was in July last year, before the summer break. You can see that you are not even able to shirk a foreign right package in such a way that it does not have to be innovative before it enters into force. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Knitting!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Schuren do you!]] This is not yet an opinion on the substance of the matter, because I have already delivered it intensively enough in the foreign rights package. But: For this you also want to cover back from parliamentarians who take their work seriously, namely, seriously in the sense of serious laws, which hold at least until they enter into force? - No, not with me!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19820	Mr Praßl is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19841	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition of the Federal Council regarding registration law is not in order. Ladies and gentlemen! The fear of the opposition parties is not justified that, in accordance with the registrar law, there is the possibility of bringing together and correcting different registers within the framework of these registries. It must be borne in mind that the quality assurance required by § 5 of the registrar law does not result in a balance of data between the different data providers. If contradictions now exist over the same date from different data sources, the statistics in the Bundesanstalt are displayed by a software. The respective registers are therefore subject to a review. The machine indexing works through the formation of the sector-specific person identifications. These are regulated for the purpose of counting and are different for all administrative applications. Thus, there is neither a data exchange nor a data return to the owners of administrative data. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore also clear here that the fears and concerns expressed by the SPÖ and also by the Greens do not apply, so that neither in the Federal Institute of Statistics Austria nor by the Federal Ministry of the Interior can in any way lead to a grid search. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19882	The next speaker is Mr Winkler. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19903	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! High house! In my contribution to the registration law, I should like to say in principle that I am very sorry that the SPÖ and the Greens do not agree with a law that brings huge administrative simplifications and therefore huge cost reductions. I really think it's a measure – not to say a commoner – if you're evading a whole group of servants, so to speak, by putting them under injustice because something might happen. But as we are so glad to say: The bad guy thinks he is. I would therefore like to say that the present registrar law leads to a huge discharge of citizens and a cost reduction of more than €22 million. They often complain that the bureaucracy burdened the citizens and criticized the huge administrative burden and the completion of questionnaires during the last census in 2001. Now this Federal Government introduces a modern and modern electronic census, and you reject the law again by painting the ghost of the grid search on the wall! Appreciated ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the Rasterfachung can be carried out in Austria, as you know, only after judicial decision and serves to find dangerous persons or groups that might threaten the state, among other things. The present register law, on the other hand, only serves to collect important data on citizens quickly and unbureaucratically, so that the state can fulfil extremely necessary tasks, such as financial compensation. With a grid arrest, I can say once again that this law has nothing to do with it. I would like to point out once again that the opposition raised by the SPÖ in the Federal Council is not based on federal interests. But it is certain what the SPÖ is for, not for less, but obviously for more bureaucracy. If you want to prove the opposite, you agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e19957	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each request separately. First of all, we shall vote on the opposition of the Federal Council against the decision of the National Council of 6 June. ==References====External links== Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues and Mr Hiezu have tabled a request for the original decision of the National Council of 6. December 2005 concerning a Federal Act on the implementation of Volks-, Arbeitstätten-, Gebäude- und Wohnungsstellungen und Bundesgesetz, which amends the Postal Act 1997, the Reporting Act 1991 and the Education Documentation Act. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. This means that the National Council has, in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. Finally, we shall vote on the opposition of the Federal Council against the decision of the National Council of 6 June. ==References====External links== Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, and Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer have also made a request for the original decision of the National Council of 6. In December 2005, a Federal Act amending the Constitutional and Residence Law is to be repeated. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This sign is given by the majority. That is why it is accepted. This means that the National Council has, in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. [[19:48:09]] 14. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-eightth Report (III-160, e.g.) ==References====External links== Years until 31. (December 2004) (1292 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20043	We now reach the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Donabauer with a 4 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20070	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! With the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Parliament, the Public Prosecutor's Office not only provides an impressive certificate of performance, but certainly also provides the National Council with important information. The work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Austria can be considered as an example – such that there are few in Europe. In this way, as in many other areas – social, budgetary and labour market areas – we are a leading country. I think that has to be said because we need a much greater awareness of the value of what we are doing and developing in our own country. In particular, the new democracies in Europe are taking an example of what we are doing successfully for years and decades. The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is about 400 pages strong, also includes representations of specific complaints. These are, of course, located in different legal areas. I think that the People's Procuratorate – and this is what she says in her report – would like to contribute to strengthening the awareness of fundamental rights in the administration. Of course, the public prosecutorship as such is an uncomplicated point of contact for many citizens who feel extremely overwhelmed in everyday life. Many laws, regulations, directives, regulations affect citizens, they are often unorientated and do not know where to turn. In addition, the public prosecutorship is the institution, which is also a very successful intermediary role between the authorities and the interests of citizens. In the work – I observe them very closely and have also dealt with the report in concrete terms – it is very clear that the public prosecutorship not only communicates, but also fulfils an enormously high advisory task. This is commendable, because I think that the citizen not only needs such institutions today, but also seeks and urgently needs them. The number of people who turn to the People's Procuratorate is increasing slightly. The Public Prosecutor's Office was used in 16 189 cases in 2004. This means, as has been said, a very slight increase in cases of processing. However, the number of examination procedures initiated has decreased slightly with 6 502. Of the examination procedures initiated, 4 100 were for the federal administration, the rest for state and local authorities. The 7 500 examination procedures concluded also found that some 21 cases are particularly serious. I would like to point out – that is, I believe, important – that in 5 444 cases the public prosecutor's office has declared itself incompetent. I think that preliminary work is also necessary, because it is a valuable task, on the other hand, but also time, energy and resource-consuming task and activity. In view of the advanced period, I would like to refer briefly to a number of questions: Of course, it is important to point out from you that, for example, someone in a pension insurance institution had to wait six and a half years for his orphanage. – It is very crucial that you have helped in this case. That must be said, and it should be praised. I have also read out a second important approach: They write, for example, rescue helicopters after accidents are not always justified. We must also be more determined in this area, more responsible and more relevant. Of course, life needs to be saved and all the aid structures offered, but on the other hand, it also needs to be critically questioned about the need, effectiveness and cost question. - I think that's very important. The report also clearly shows that most of the complaints in court proceedings have a very long processing period. With regard to the number of complaints, I have found that there have been 123 cases in Vienna and only 40 cases per 100 000 inhabitants in Tyrol. [[People's attorney Mag. Stadler: They have a national attorney!]] It is far more important that you return to different emotionality on television, and I think that these broadcasts are accepted and also fulfil a good purpose, although I speak less of the presentation, but rather of the solution and information. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, for your work, but above all your employees, who are very much involved in this successful work. I hope that you will continue this activity in the service of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20107	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He too speaks for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20128	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Yes, of course: The public prosecutor's office is to be and must be praised. Great work is being done, and I would like to join in with the praise. But, Mr Donabauer, it may not have been alone! One should also take seriously the recommendations of the People's Procuratorate. To give you an example: As far as government publicity is concerned, Mr Donabauer, the Public Prosecutor's Office recommends that guidelines be drawn up. . You can now support the People's Procuratorate with the motion for a resolution that I shall make. The Public Procuratorate clearly notes that purely party-politically motivated broadcasts and advertising measures, where content is missing or clearly abandon unilateral influences, raise questions about funding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the evil opposition that is outraged by advertising expenditure, but it is the public prosecutor’s office – and it is the Court of Auditors who has been calling for binding regulations for years. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the only existence you have!]] The opinion of the Federal Chancellery on this request of the Court of Auditors cannot be outlawed to cynicism at all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Does that apply to the head?]] Mrs Fekter! Do you even know what this Court of Auditors report gives of itself by the Federal Chancellor's Office, when it says that the Federal Chancellor's Office is based on the principles recommended by the Court of Auditors? - Don't do it! That's not exactly what happens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Does that apply to the head? How's the mayor? He doesn't even know what cost he has! He's not even responding to the request!]] And not “only” – under quotations – the People’s Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors are outraged by government advertising, no, also the Constitutional Court! There is a command at the Constitutional Court of Justice of the purity of the election – in a way the antithesis of the dirty election campaign by Mr Lopatka – that it must be quite clear that no ministerial means should be used to influence national elections. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How high is the information budget of Mayor Häupl? Mayor Häupl refuses to disclose the data! That's where the public attorney is supposed to look!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] There are these seven rules of the Court of Auditors. Mrs Fekter, you are invited to go along with a motion for a resolution so that we can finally bring order there. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker holds a newspaper page with the Federal Government's advertisement to cut off Austria at the Winter Olympics in Turin.]] It can't have been! I do not want to go any further into the spelling errors in this listing, but this has nothing to do with the rules set out by the Court of Auditors. Even if you do not believe the People's Procuratorate, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors – the competence and objectivity of the former President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Franz Fierce, is, I believe, undisputed. He was the chief controller for twelve years. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] – Because They laugh like this: Do you know what he has to say about the question? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Did you choose him the first time?]] What did Fierce think of himself in today's daily newspaper when he saw the government's Olympic Councils? [[Abg. Neudeck: Your red glasses make you blind!]] – Technical information is not that, she thought. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How is this in Vienna? How's mayor Häupl? He's hiding the numbers!]] If you want to know who won in Turin, open the sports page. - That's so simple. He's not dependent on ads. Beetle clearly notes: This is an advertising measure because the government is linked to a positive message. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how I think it can't go on! This is not the “evil opposition”, which there agitates, but the People’s Procuratorate, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court and Koryphae such as Dr. Franz Fierce. So I can only appeal to you: Follow the SPÖ's request!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20299	Mr Dr. Mrs Klepsch's motion for a resolution, tabled by Mrs Klepsch, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20369	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20390	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr Gaál said in an interlocutory call that I had already spoken enough today. - I can't save you, dear Toni Gáal! Above all, your speakers love you, and you have to give the answer so that these half-truths do not remain in the room. It is really interesting that Members of the herbs are also involved in today's discussion, which is really about the public prosecutor's office – that is, the lawyers of the population – which concerns the legitimate concerns of the population, in which it is about representing the rights of the population and the problems that one has in relation to the public administration, in which it is also about talking about the wishes of the public prosecutor's office so that it can better fulfil this task, misused in order to revisit with his posters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs]] But, dear colleague herbs, you have said what interests you, what any mayors use for self-advertising. Interested You probably don't want what your ministries were wasting on self-advertising at that time either. have. I just remember that at the time of the Ministry of Transport, there were these commercial spots where the trucks exploded, and so on. If you are not interested in any mayor, then at least your present mayor in the Federal Capital of Vienna! You'll be interested in it. – Or interested Neither do you, Mr. Herbs? Then go ahead with a good example, and explain to Mayor Häupl that he can't deal with information policy like this! You, Mr Herb, are acting with information that has given you this Federal Government and the resorts, because there is the relevant information – and there is really no concealment! But how is that with you, where you have opportunities for information from SPÖ? Colleagues, what regulations do you have from the SPÖ? Read in tomorrow's newspapers! But maybe you didn't have time to do it because you had to prepare for this four-minute speech here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] In any case, the editions of tomorrow’s daily newspapers have been up since 6 p.m. Read more about how this is at the SPÖ in Vienna! In June 2005, a request was made regarding the self-advertisement of the mayor of Vienna Häupl. There was no answer to that! 26 times – and then finally came the answer that there were 6 000 interventions in the years 2000 to 2005. 6 000 deployments! But it was not possible, on the basis of the high administrative burden, to determine what this cost on taxpayers! – Dear colleague herbs, 6,000 interventions, but in the municipality of Vienna you don’t even know what it cost! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, we know exactly how many million euros the budget for public relations, for the self-advertising of your comrades, Mr. Herzegovina, is in the state capital of Vienna, where before the elections there are not pages with advertisements, but rather books as inserts from the city of Vienna! For each city councillor a separate booklet to make your own advertising! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] And you, Mr Herb, are trying to play here as a great discoverer! Come, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, once in your own field! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Create it at least that will be informed about your own advertisements! And only then do we discuss whether our information was justified or not! Ladies and gentlemen! But now it is up to the public prosecutors to support their efforts to deal with the ever-increasing complaints or suggestions made to the public prosecutors. That's why: As part of the Constitutional Convention, we discussed whether it should be a public prosecutor in the future or whether we should stay at three. – From my point of view, it can only be that one leaves this number, because the citizen has the right to cooperate with “his” public prosecutor accordingly that he can also keep in touch with the public prosecutor. And how a popular lawyer should do that in 16 000 cases, let me explain that! This will probably be difficult for three. Of course, it is also necessary to discuss the competences, because a stronger administration – equipped with new technologies – may also need to be adapted to control when, for example, it comes to improving the working methods compared to the ministries, such as the reduction of Information periods. All of this can be discussed, including the presentation of special reports. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that the People's Procuratorate is kept out of the day-to-day events. Each citizen should be able to go – unimpeded by any party-political membership – to “his” competent public prosecutor/to“his” competent national attorney and receive the appropriate support. Of course, we also need to be careful that there are no double competences between the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors – both institutions of the National Council. But otherwise, I think we can be very satisfied with this institution. As far as Parliamentarians are concerned, it would be good, as I believe, if we did not just break our heads in the reports of the People's Procuratorate's Office on Public Prosecution, but once again discussed very thoroughly what the public prosecutor's suggestions for improving their working methods can really be implemented – and then this will not be pushed to the long bank, as we unfortunately have in the Constitutional Convention, where there will be no result for party political reasons. One should therefore really take a serious look at how this important institution of public prosecutors can continue in the future to fulfil the task of presenting a real attorneyship for Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20515	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20536	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! I have now considered, after Herbert Scheibner has founded here, why the BZÖ party is for the maintenance of three Volksanwälten... – I am entirely your opinion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I have now come to my mind that there is a constant discussion here of “the lawyers” and a lady, Mrs. Volksanwälter Bauer, sitting here, that I actually do not know any institution in this Republic that was so occupied with women. For some 28 years now, there has been the establishment of the People's Procuratorate – and there have always been women in this body. I therefore warn you to reduce this body to a member, because I can already predict how many arguments there will be, why you cannot keep it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This should not be seen as a joke now, but it always bothers me when I hear from “the lawyers” – and here is Mrs. Volksanwälter Rosemarie Bauer. – I would like to thank all three for their work, as well as for their employees. In addition to the Court of Auditors – which has already been mentioned – the public prosecutorship is also an institution of the National Council, and it is that institution that is the most intensive and very soon at the work of the mandaters. People with problems are addressed to ambassadors and the Volksanwälte. And I am really glad that I can pass on many of these problems to me directly and directly to the public prosecutor's office, always knowing that the problem, the concern, the complaint – that's the key word – is in good hands. In good hands, to the extent that it permits the possibility of the institution's public prosecutorship: as far as the human and resource is possible, and above all, as far as the public prosecutorship has the competences for it. The number of 16 000 cases of the public prosecutor's office has already been mentioned. And why does this figure not rise significantly, where the entire public administration becomes much more complex and I already feel that people have far more problems with public administration than before? Why does this figure not rise? – Because it is simply and simply so that the public prosecutorship has been deprived of large control areas. I do not wish to mention the fact that the national council itself is the one who withdraws from the public prosecutor's office, so to speak, and therefore I would like to encourage him to discuss this issue intensively. I would also like to mention a new body of public prosecutors in their report, namely the fundamental legal part. This now fixed part of the annual reports is primarily concerned with reference to Article 6 of the MRP: fair procedure. It is therefore essentially a matter of delay in proceedings, of non-constitutional treatment of the complainants, of sending them to the “salt office” or of treating them in a way such as this: “Taste’s taste, pitchers!” and therefore the constitutionally guaranteed right to a fair trial is deprived of these people. I therefore believe that the public prosecutor's office not only provides good services to the citizen in concrete terms, but also works pro futuro, so to speak, that in the future, authorities facing such complaints will not be able to ensure a constitutional procedure by so to speak, so to speak, working correctly. Finally, ladies and gentlemen – I have only a little more time to speak – I would like to point out two points that concern us all. These are two points which have been discussed here in the National Council for years: the question of the appointment of lawyers, their choice and the proposal for this election, which has been criticised by the Green Group for years and which has also repeatedly been presented for correction and renewal, of the three strongest parties of the National Council for this election. – In fact, it is no longer a choice, because it is a proposal right of three parties. - That's the one point. The second point – which has been discussed many times already – is the question of the so-called deductibility of lawyers. In the respective occupation, the lawyers always enjoy the privilege of being sent to an office and not being deductible, no matter what happens. There is no comparable constellation in the Austrian legal system. What the Greens are pleading for is to implement a model – I am now saying a model, because it cannot be one – as well as the President of the Court of Auditors. We are not advocating this, but we are pleading for a serious discussion. There have also been enough signals in the context of the Austrian Convention that this is wanted; but that is all fallen asleep. I hope that Mrs Volksanwälter and Mr Volksanwälte are not frustrated on the basis of this sleepy discussion, in relation to the public prosecutor's office as a whole, their work will continue to be as committed as it has been, and I wish you and all your employees all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20619	The next speaker was Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20640	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the public prosecutorship is an uncomplicated point of contact for citizens who do not feel that they are being treated fairly by public authorities. On the basis of individual cases, the impact of the legal order will be reviewed and evaluated. The public prosecutorship not only supports those concerned but also plays an important role in the role of the authorities and the interests of citizens. I am particularly pleased that for the employees of the People's Procuratorate, the citizen and the citizen are always at the forefront, so in the first place. This will thus facilitate access to often very complicated laws. The public prosecutor's area of responsibility ranges from simple advisory activities to concrete reviews of complaints made to them. This review also gives the public prosecutor an important feedback to the administration itself, which may also show maladministration. Because sometimes legal behaviour by administrative authorities can lead to results that are unsatisfying for citizens. Therefore, direct contact with those concerned can be very quickly recognized and consequences corrected. The number of those who turn to the People's Procuratorate continues to increase, we have heard this even today. It rose by 400 from 2003 to 2004. The fact that family-law problems between individuals in connection with divorce and divorce are constantly brought to the public prosecutors shows the confidence of the citizens of this institution. Through its role as mediator, the People's Procuratorate plays an important role in the integration between citizens and the political system. I would like to thank the Volksanwälter and the Volksanwälten for this tireless work. I also thank all the officials and employees of the People's Procuratorate who work for the citizens of our country, and I still wish everyone much success in their work for the people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20677	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20699	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has presented very comprehensively the tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also a very essential task to keep a mirror on legislation and to point out regulatory shortcomings. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than enough occasions when the quality of legislation leaves more than to be desired. Apart from inconsistencies of purpose, more and more errors of form become apparent, which make life difficult for people. That is, the wrong thing is also misimplemented. The latest example in this report is the childcare allowance. Apart from the general need for reform of this law, which is certified by organizations such as the OECD and the Industrial Union, the devil sits in many details, as the rise in complaints also shows. Thus, due to a lack of clarity in the text of the law, a very strange practice of execution has intervened. Unmarried parents with a sedentary foreign service relationship were denied child benefits with an adventurous legal system, because they lack family status. So here, not on the family property as a child, but on the parents to each other. And even when the claimants changed, problems arose because a non-claiming of one part automatically applies to the other parent. So neither a mere declaration of termination nor a withdrawal of the withdrawal were considered possible by the Ministry of Social Affairs. That is why the People's Procuratorate rightly calls for legal clarification in these cases. It is particularly to be congratulated on popular lawyer Peter Kostelka on the numerous positive actions of complaints in the sense of family members. [[Abg. Neudeck: Everything else would have surprised me, Mrs. Colleague!]] Of course, the others too deserved praise, but I would particularly like to highlight the family sector here. [[Abg. Scheibner: But in the Convention you left him in the rain, your party!]] In 2003, the Minister of Finance discovered an apparently particularly lucrative source of revenue, namely the recovery of the grant to the benefit, which many, mainly fathers, often met with surprise, especially as they often did not know about the grant. In response to this, at least the information of those concerned was expanded, so that they do not fall out of all clouds when the repayment request suddenly floats into the house. A permanent burner of complaints is the longer procedure duration. For example, a decision on the extension of the family allowance took more than two years. In particular, complaints of long-term duration in the field of care benefits, which, of course, have a particularly serious impact on people who are urgently dependent on care. Care money is even such a chapter. While the consensus paper on the uniform assessment of the need for care has been revised, it remains to be hoped that the further suggestions of the Public Procuratorate will be taken into account, because there are special hardships and incomprehensibles in identifying the need for care and care for children and young people. In the case of infants and infants, the actual need is not sufficiently taken into account, on the grounds that the same age-old children are also in need of care. What it means to do with a child constantly special exercise therapies or similar things is apparently totally foreign to some desk dancers. As a result, bureaucratic illiteracy is very often at the expense of the population. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why we've already changed the law!]] In particular, it is due to the People's Procuratorate that these abuses are highlighted. It is up to us to take these suggestions seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20764	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20785	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! You have reported more than 16,000 cases in this report, which we have discussed in the Committee and which is debated here today. I thank you for this work, which you did not only in 2004, but also before and after. Mrs Grossmann, your party would have been in the Austrian Convention, which was just explained to me by our member in this body, to use more for the rights of lawyers than she did, and you would no longer have the need to insist on it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Volksanwälte also demanded more rights for their institution in their report. They have also encouraged the extension of the control power to distributed legal entities, municipal associations et cetera, the authorisation to challenge laws, the reduction of the time-limit for the speeding up of examination procedures, the submission of special reports to Parliament and, above all, the idea of merging the Federal Heaviness Complaint Commission with the Institution Volksanwaltschaft, but also of reforming the law on property, and many other points. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is up to us Members to ensure that not even in the next ten reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office these suggestions are contained, but that we set up a subcommittee in the Constitutional Committee, which is now finally dealing with these suggestions. And we are discussing party over and over again in the Bureau, but also in the committee, and we are trying to find a regulation here that is reasonable for the future and will help all of us too. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has tabled a request, Mr Herb, which sounds very reasonable. You want to have rules that bring the advertising of government members to the public's attention, and I assume that you have also adopted these directives in such a way that they apply to all parties, not only to those now in the government, but to all, including yours, you should come to the government once again. I and my colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, will be happy to agree to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20831	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20852	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! Yeah, surprises are there, you don't think so. The work of the People's Procuratorate is certainly also very important in this area, namely the suggestions made to the Federal Government. ==References== It has been noted that the preparation of guidelines on the public relations of the Federal Government or individual ministers would be useful. ==References== Report is Lapidar: ‘The suggestion of the VA remains upright.’ In good German: It's Nothing's happening! It will therefore be high time, from our point of view, for something to happen here, and in this sense we will naturally support the request made here by the SP. However, on a very specific case, I would also like to say something, on a specific example, because it shows how important the public prosecutor's work is in terms of helping citizens, especially in very difficult matters. I'm talking about the inn hours. It was originally fixed in the Industrial Regulation in 2001 that the opening hours for host gardens can be changed by the national authorities by regulation, i.e. at 23 o'clock and 24 o'clock. And that's what happened. For example, former head of state Klasnic in Styria did this at the time. It has made use of this possibility and has adopted a regulation for the whole of Styria – without differentiation and without any consultation with those concerned, i.e. without any investigation procedure, which, for example, concerns narrow alleyways, residential areas and the like. Neighbors, arrants and arrants are legally helpless, and in one case they have just turned to the People's Procuratorate with such a question. From our point of view, however, it is not about saying that this should be or should not be, the blocking period should be set there or there, but it is about negotiating with the neighbours, with the residents. And this is not really possible at the level of the national leaders. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also noted this in its report. The competent Minister Bartenstein has relatively little interest in how he really seems to be little interested in the concerns of the people on this issue. The public prosecutorship then gratefully took the initiative and presented this regulation to the Constitutional Court, which also made an amendment, in the direction that this was not constitutional and the regulation had to be adopted by the municipalities. From our point of view, this is much more useful, because it is a level where people can easily get directly into the conversation and make this differentiation. This means that a progress has been made here, which would probably not have been possible without the public prosecutorship in this form. Thank you very much for this because it is really about citizens' and citizens' rights and the opportunity to fight it better now. The question is whether there will always be political will at community level to really challenge this. One can only say that if this is not the case, we will hope again for the People's Procuratorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20894	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20916	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! I too can vote in the hymn of praise to my previous speakers, and I should like to stress this on the basis of a few figures. I should like to mention that in 2003 15 787 citizens have benefited from the public prosecutor's assistance, with 16 189 citizens in 2004. The People's Procuratorate's History of Success all on their professional competence and great commitment to citizens' rights. It is practically the last point of contact for many citizens to be able to fight a maladministration. The many contacts between citizens and authorities are very important in this context. For example, in 2004 it was 251 spokesperson of the People's Procuratorate and 1,984 interlocutors. The information service was used 8 831 times. The public works of the Public Prosecutor's Office are also impressive about their extensive information. This has been the case since 1996. In 2004 this homepage already visited 147 000 visitors with a total of 744,000 queries. 67 520 surveys came from Austria, the most frequently requested page being the page “Die Volksanwälte” with 27 753 visitors. There would still be a lot of positive things to say to the People's Procuratorate, but I may point out one thing: it is certainly also very useful to address proposals and suggestions from the Public Procuratorate in the sense of administrative simplification. I would also like to conclude by thanking Mrs Volksanwälter and the two Mr Volksanwälten and their officials for their extremely valuable and committed work for the benefit of our citizens. They and their officials have been able or can give justice to many citizens with their work, and thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20961	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e20982	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! Many previous speakers have already thanked the public prosecutors and their employees. I would also like to do this very much, but I would also like to invite all of my colleagues, if we share the view that excellent work is being done – many previous speakers have made it important – to take the suggestions and recommendations seriously. So at least the government groups, but also, of course, many other institutions have the power to actually implement these recommendations. If we share the view that the number of complaints is rising, then, as I believe, we should also try together to provide the public prosecutor with the necessary resources. Ladies and gentlemen! There are, of course, human needs and concerns behind these complaints. If Mr Donabauer has just referred to a case as the first speaker, namely those who are very sorry that a procedure for granting an orphan's pension has lasted six and a half years, I would also like to comment in general on the questions of the duration of the proceedings here. I don't think it could have been useful or intention that if two pension insurance institutions are grouped together, the duration of the proceedings will increase. But we still have an increasing period of procedure! We are currently at about a year and a half, and I think it is high time to take up the relevant recommendations of the public prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have 20 percent on the issue of accident pension taxation, which is still not done. We have a Constitutional Court knowledge, there are numerous cases and complaints pending at the public prosecutor's office. There the recommendations are made. – I think that we should also be careful to ensure that these recommendations are implemented accordingly in the interests of humanity and fairness. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We should remember, especially in the social field, but not only in the social field, what fates often stand behind the individual cases. Ladies and gentlemen in the People's Procuratorate must express our thanks. Let us try to implement accordingly those cases that have been made known to us, where recommendations have been made, in the interests of humanity, but also in the interest of the enormous work done by the lawyers and their employees! – Thank you and all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21028	Mr Praßl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21049	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! The number of those who turn to the People's Procuratorate continues to increase. This is reflected in the recent report. Thus, there were over 16,000 cases in which people accepted the services of the public prosecutors. That's about 400 complaints more than the year before. When I present a breakdown of the more than 16 000 complaints, about 10,745 cases concern the field of public administration, and in 5 444 cases the public prosecutor was not responsible. The public prosecutorship is repeatedly entrusted with family-law problems between individuals, such as divorces and divorces. In another 4 243 cases, no examination procedures could be initiated. Of the 6 500 examination procedures initiated, approximately 4 107 were for the Federal Administration, 2 300 were in about opposition to the state and municipal administration. 7 581 examination procedures were concluded in the 2004 financial year. In at least 3,626 cases, ladies and gentlemen, the three prosecutors saw no reason for a complaint. Finally, I would like to thank you for the advisory work in my constituency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21086	As the next speaker, Mr Prehauser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! In view of 16 000 cases of business, it is easy to say thank you. It is also questionable how much effort is needed to achieve it and to work it out in such a way that the persons concerned also benefit from it. We have heard it – also from my side here, thank you to the employees and to the People's Procuratorate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the task of thinking about whether the public prosecutor's personal resource is sufficient to continue to meet increasing demands in the future. I think that we can say together in this area that the tax money is used rationally. There are other opportunities where one has the opposite to say, but in this case, I think, we can say uniformly that the money is well established, we thank together once again. If we look at the report more closely, then there are some things that should not be contradicted. For example, in the field of justice, Mr. Volksanwalt Stadler, under “General” points out: “It has been noted that since the change in the head of the Ministry, the constitutional assistance provided by the BMJ to the VA has been reduced. For example, it should be noted that the VA is now difficult to understand in court cases. If such acts were previously transmitted to the VA in the form of BMJ, the BMJ now considers that granting access to the file is an act of independent case law, which could only be granted by the competent judge. This attitude clearly contradicts the constitutional arrangement of the kind. 148b para. 1 Federal Constitutional Act.’ I think that if such things come into play for the future, then we should at times think about whether we should not have the rails better to put them in such a way that the People's Procuratorate will be able to work unhindered. Next item, ladies and gentlemen: Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka said: “Debt-offering law – insufficient help for victims of crime”. Not often, but yet it is the case that, in the end, support that could have been used for victims of crime could have been called for late and therefore partly expired. We are asked to do something about it. The legislative suggestion of the People's Procuratorate, for example, to the Federal Chancellery on the approximation of the limitation period under the Act of Detention – ten years – to the limitation period under civil law – 30 years – has not been taken up so far. The preparation – and this is important – of guidelines on the public relations of the Federal Government or individual Federal Minister has been recommended and stimulated by the public prosecutors, but has not found any contradiction at the competent bodies. For example, if Mr Bösch said that it would have been more possible to play an active part in the Austrian Convention, I can say: The Social Democrats are not opposed to increasing the powers of the People's Procuratorate, the question is only, ladies and gentlemen, which is ultimately the effect of your projects. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You said that every consensus has been lifted! You left your representatives in the rain!]] If we recognize a disability of the People's Procuratorate from this, we cannot win for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21167	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21188	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! I found in this report from the People's Procuratorate that a survey was held on the issue of “necessary social assistance – impulses for effective poverty reduction”. The People's Procuratorate has encouraged the very different social assistance to be unified. I've been looking at the way that Austria looks. The lowest social aid, i.e. the largest poverty trap, exists in Vienna. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Vienna has the lowest social assistance, it is 405 €; in Upper Austria, for example, it is 532 €. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The second-lowest social assistance is available in Salzburg, followed by the Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! There would be a real need for action. Indeed, harmonization cannot be called a levelling down, possibly at the Vienna level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Herzegovina has today criticized the information policy of the Federal Government. Mr Herzegovina, I think this is quite peculiar when I look at Vienna. I quote the “curer”: “The concept of democracy of the SP is not identical to that of communist dictatorships.” In the case of questions to city councils, it is not answered when it comes to “how high the expenses of the city’s press and information service are for self-advertising”. The speech was by Mr Häupl and Mr Stadtrat Mailath-Pokorny, among others. Mr Herb, put these figures on the table, and then let us look at the waste policy that is being carried out there.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21253	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21274	Mr President. Dear Rosemarie Bauer! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the report noted that in the area of transport, the number of complaints increased by 25 percent from 2003 to 2004 and in particular complaints against the time-limitation of steering rights. It was also a lot to read in the newspapers. Especially numerous were the complaints against decisions of the Transport Office in Vienna. Thankfully, the public prosecutor has pointed out that it can be a huge financial burden, in particular for the poorer population, to have checks carried out at a cost of up to €500, and that such delays, especially for older people who depend on the car to be still semi-mobile, and who do not pose a threat to road safety, pose a threat to their quality of life. The decisions of the Administrative Court have already made it clear that the deadline may only be implemented if it is expected that a deterioration in the state of health will actually occur, but not in the event that this cannot only be excluded. This concerns mainly diabetics and people with high blood pressure. Furthermore, the public prosecutor has pointed out that the opinion of the official doctors must also be critically reviewed by the decisive authority and not It may also be accepted simply and that the order for medical advice may not be given arbitraryly, for example on the basis of an anonymous notice, but only on the basis of facts known to the Authority. They have made a very important contribution to legal certainty in this area which is very important for the people, and I would like to thank the public prosecutors very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21316	Mr Volksanwalt Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21338	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. As President of the People's Procuratorate, I may briefly address the questions raised. Mr Donabauer! The number of claims received at the Public Prosecutor's Office has almost doubled in the current composition of the Volksanstalts compared to that of the time. At a high level, we have a number of attachments to date, including in 2005, of about 17 000 cases. I assume that this will remain stable and therefore ensure the use of the People's Procuratorate at this level also for the future. Incompetence declarations are always associated with a test, which is perfectly correct, but also with a reconnaissance. We attach great importance to the fact that citizens who are not competently addressed to the Public Procuratorate are also served with a minimum level of information by the Public Procuratorate. The comparison of complaints between Vienna and Tyrol tends to be due to the fact that a national public prosecutor is present in Tyrol and a national attorney is installed in Vorarlberg. Mrs Mag. Stoisits! The women's rate is consistently guaranteed in the public prosecutor's office, especially in the workforce. So we are one of the few areas where the corresponding female rate in the workforce is guaranteed. At the beginning of the public prosecutor's work, however, it was an exclusive male occupation. At the time, it was the Volksanwälte Bauer, Weisz and Zeillinger. At the beginning it was a pure men's institution, but then we have always had ladies who have done valuable work, like my colleague Bauer, in the People's Procuratorate. Large areas of control are actually deprived of us, ladies and gentlemen, and I am drawing attention to the fact that this is not a concern to prove our general right to exist, or because there is a risk that it could become boring for the lawyers in the institution, but it is a problem that the legal protection of the citizens seeking legal protection through the public prosecutor's office can no longer receive this legal protection if he wishes to complain in the municipal area, for example through bath tariffs, bath regulations, in tourism establishments, at museums in the municipal area, but also at the Austrian federal railways or in the payment of fees in the context of the GIS or in matters of the Federal Forests at the public prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you to bear in mind that each of these outlays will always result in a loss of control as long as the House is unable to understand the public prosecutor's audit competence on the basis of the Court of Auditors' audit skills at these outsourced institutions. Mrs Sburny rightly pointed out the challenge of the Steiermark State Gastgarten Regulation. The Constitutional Court of First Instance then initiated a standard examination procedure and repealed the relevant provision in the Commercial Code. Now this is a matter of the communities in their own sphere of activity, where they would have belonged already. But the crucial point is not who adopts the regulation, but the crucial point is that a test procedure must be carried out beforehand. This has not been the case in any federal country. It is important not only to see the interests of the tourism industry, tourism and gastronomy, but also to see the interests of the locals, especially the urban population, who suffer significantly, especially in the summer months, from the host gardens, as well as the interests of other public institutions such as hospitals, schools and the like, as they are listed in the law itself. Such an examination has not been carried out before the adoption of such a blockage regulation. We hope that this will be ensured in future through the new competence of the communities in the process before a regulation is adopted. Mr Prehauser has referred to a wound point which I would like to point out here once again. The Federal Constitution clearly states that all courts are also obliged to provide information to the public prosecutor's office. It is not for the courts to check whether or not the People's Procuratorate needs a file. The Constitution does not set a standard here, where the judicial institutions would have to carry out an independent examination of this matter, whether they would now provide information to the public prosecutor or whether they would send a desired act or not. I have a practical case in connection with the examination of a complaint in the field of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, where it was crucial for the case of the test to also receive the file in order to assess whether the examination in the field of disciplinary law of the Federal Ministry of the Interior was properly carried out. I do not want to address the details of this case now, but it is not up to the courts to check whether the Republic's supreme body for administrative and maladministration control needs a court act or not. We must decide and do that ourselves. The appropriate handling of court cases can be left to us in comfort. I ask at all to see that a fundamental right understanding in the field of the Federal Ministry of Justice, that is not to say in the ministry itself, but in particular in the courts, still leaves very much to be desired. I would like to thank myself on behalf of my two colleagues for the excellent words and debates. I should also like to thank you, on behalf of our colleagues and members of the People's Procuratorate, for your recognition and for your praise that we have experienced and will be bringing with us today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21411	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21434	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Dear Lord Volksanwälte! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank you for your work, not only for those you do, but also for those who make your employees, because it is every year a confirmation of where people's concerns and needs lie. These are contained in this report, and I think you have not overlooked anyone who does not deliberately want it. The fact that there are 16 000 cases a year alone shows how great the need is and, above all, how great the displeasure of the population is that it has to come to you in order to get it right. It is gratifying that your offer for many people is a very despondent establishment, so you also trust yourself to present your problems and the abuses there. I think that's very important. I also think the show you make every week encourages a lot of people to say: So, and now I do, because otherwise I don't get through! This interplay, as I believe, is very important to give the population the opportunity to claim their rights. As far as the report is concerned, I must say, regret that certain things repeat each year. I have already taken the last report on the occasion and have tabled appropriate motions for resolutions to amend many of the things that have been shown where there are still shortcomings. As an example, I would just like to mention the care allowance in the application month or the death month. I made a request years ago that there should be care allowance in the application and death months. Although ÖVP and FPÖ and BZÖ – which I regret to say – have not rejected this request, they unfortunately do so in such a way that they can delay treatment for years and therefore no solution can be reached, and I regret that. We know this problem, this problem is also known by the Federal Government – with the difference that the Federal Government says: We know this problem, but that's our meat, and that's why it's constantly being postponed. But this should not be the solution, for the People's Procuratorate does not present its reports for that reason, so that everyone will say: It's what's in there for us! These reports should, in fact, encourage action to address these shortcomings or to eliminate these ambiguities. One of the ambiguities expressed in this report is the painful history of the Law on the Disabled. It is really so – and we Greens were against it – that the termination period has been increased to six months in the event of the recruitment of disabled people. There is no other group of people who are supposed to make six months of probation. This is a discrimination created exclusively for people with disabilities. Many people believe: Now I have the job, that's right, because now I have a cancellation protection! After five months, however, they insist that this was a mistake. They fly out and have nothing at all. As a rule, they do not have a right to unemployment benefit because they have not worked before and cannot therefore be granted this right. In addition, many thereby lose their family allowance, which they had before. That means they're worse there than before. – This problem is also known, whose However, a solution is not under attack by the government parties. Even that's your meat. You mean something's going to happen. Also with regard to the reimbursement of aid costs, i.e. the reimbursement of costs for the conversion of cars, for the conversion of dwellings, for Duschühle, in order to mention only simple things, there are great problems over and over again, in order to ensure that those concerned are also financed accordingly. Sometimes you have to submit the cost estimate in advance, or it means that you should not pay before granting the cost refund. There are many such stories. Then somehow coming to his money is not easy. There are major problems identified by the People's Procuratorate a few weeks ago in one of their broadcasts on the example of a car conversion. I mean, that can't be, it's really a joke that you have to serve the public prosecutor's office in order to get such self-evidents, I say now, funded. Even in the field of care money classifications – and that is true, we say again and again – there are still serious misunderstandings, because some people are much lower than they actually do. It then follows again a long way from the procedure that people get a reduced care allowance and cannot pay their assistance. There is still a lot of facts to be presented here, but unfortunately it is not enough time. I would like to mention something else, the so-called § 29b StVO. This one regulates the issue of park IDs you get when you're disabled. We know that there are completely different handlings among the individual exhibitors. There are federal states, there is no problem at all getting this parking card. Then there are communities, you don't get it at all, and in the cities it's quite different. It always depends on how many disabled parking spaces there are and how many ID cards have already been issued. Then it is decided whether there is another ID card or not. This situation is also unsustainable, because I think it must be obvious that disabled people who need this ID must also receive it – regardless of whether three times as many ID cards have already been issued as parking spaces, or not. These are things that can be changed. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, to finally take this report seriously and to implement measures that are constantly being put forward so that they do not have to be listed next and next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21505	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21526	High house! Mr Prehauser said that it was not at the SPÖ that we could not reach an agreement in the Constitutional Convention on the question of popular lawyers. Mr Prehauser! I believe you are also sitting in the Special Committee to deal with the results or non-results of the Constitutional Convention. This is the last time that we have clearly demonstrated who does not want a solution. That's you! We said: We are in the Constitutional Convention on Consensual Areas! We worked for 19 months. Her representative, Mr Prehauser, was a popular lawyer, Kostelka, who made compromises there, who also represented the People's Procuratorate. What do we hear now – unfortunately, I must say, Mr Kostelka – from the SPÖ? I've still asked: Please, what is it, Mr Kostelka has reached consensus? Mr Wittmann and some others said: We are not interested in what Volksanwalt Kostelka has negotiated there! We don't care! For us, only the SPÖ programme we introduced there before the Convention! – That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen, of course that is true! 19 months of work in the Constitutional Convention by us and by your negotiator at the Bureau, Kostelka, were for nothing because you said in the Committee that you are not interested in what Volksanwalt Kostelka has negotiated there for the reform of the People's Prosecution! That's the problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] At least in a discussion around the People's Procuratorate you should stick to the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21579	I call Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21600	Mr President. I would like to take a brief look at the statements made by Mrs Fekter. Mrs Fekter! 405 € paid the social assistance in Vienna, you said. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] I can tell you the following. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Without supplements!]] Aha, no extra charge. So we're not talking about the rental surcharge, and we're not talking about the heating surcharge either. We're not talking about that, but that's not so bad. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But I'm also talking about it, and I'm telling you: The number of Vienna social assistance recipients, who are homeowners and have their own forest to beat, is relatively small. You may not know that exactly in Vöcklabruck, but in Vienna. In Vienna, people who receive social assistance usually have a rental apartment and obtain heating aid. Therefore, single beneficiaries in Vienna receive €712, single parents with three children €1 102 and couples without children €942 in social assistance benefits of the city of Vienna. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But you know exactly!]] Today, these amounts have been increased by 5.3 percent – the largest increase in Vienna. [[Abg. Neudeck: And the electricity and gas prices by how much percent?]] I'd love to hear from you, Mrs Mag. Fekter, wish because I know you so long and estimate that you have a minimum degree of intellectual honesty if you go to the speaker's desk here and not claim such stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21681	Mr Wittmann spoke on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21733	Mr President. Dear Lady, honourable gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! In his speech, Mr Scheibner said that the SPÖ had left consensus in the Special Committee, where the Convention results are being discussed. – Of course, we have not left the consensus, but we have found that we will naturally respect all the results but that the outcome of the Convention is only a result if a consensus is reached on all topics and not on individual topics. [[Abg. Neudeck: The own, the inner party!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21784	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-160 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kräber, colleagues, on the establishment of rules on the conditions for the award of service contracts in the field of public relations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[20:59:53]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the opposition of the Federal Council (1282 D.B.) against the law decision of the National Council of 6 June 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons at the right of residence in the Member State of residence. December 2005 concerning a federal law amending the employee law (1311, e.g.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the opposition of the Federal Council (1287, e.g.) against the law decision of the National Council of 6 June 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons in the right to freedom of movement for persons and persons at the right of residence in the Member State of residence. December 2005 concerning a Federal Act amending the Labour Contract Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Land Labor Act 1984 (1312 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1280, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (1310 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21858	We shall now proceed to items 15 to 17 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Leutner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21887	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, through the opposition of the Federal Council, we have the opportunity to discuss together a development that has been rightly condemned in recent weeks, as I mean, publicly. Unfair contractual clauses are increasingly pressured by workers on the labour market. The situation is simple, ladies and gentlemen: If you have to make some efforts with 70 competitors for a job, you can sign all that is presented to you by the employer if you want to keep this job – even unfair clauses in contract forms. There are already real poison cocktails against the workers, ladies and gentlemen. Any changes to the workplace, which require hundreds of kilometres to be returned at once, are mixed with opaque flat-rate wages and one-sided working time breakdowns. In addition, the famous competition clauses, the training reimbursements, and as a task – I have seen that myself – there are contractual penalties that affect workers up to thousands of euros if they do not respond to the wishes of employers. – This is, ladies and gentlemen, a mass phenomenon of very recent times, that has not existed to this extent earlier. If we ask ourselves today, ladies and gentlemen: If we have given an adequate answer to this development with the draft law before us, then the answer is clearly no! For me, Mr Minister, it is incomprehensible that the total number of harmful contractual clauses which we have already included are dealt with only once in the present draft law, namely the competition clauses and the reimbursement of training costs. All the other clauses – and we have to say this today – can still be systematically applied against workers outside the working world, and that is not all right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The improvement in the competition clauses – the only ones you will then cite; I assume that – is achieved, if you look at the values, not even the protection standards of 1920. This is the improvement we are discussing here today. However, I am quite incomprehensible about the following point, and you, Mr Minister, have also referred to it: that in the reimbursement of training costs there are not only no improvements in the law, but two very explicit deteriorations for workers compared to the present situation. Firstly, the time limit for the recovery of training costs by the employer will be extended from three to five years; three years is the current court practice. – At a time when the half-life of knowledge is diminishing faster and faster, a completely cross-border process of the Federal Government! What is particularly disturbing to us, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have now adopted the law in such a way that, apart from the reimbursement of training costs, the wage can also be demanded during the training period. According to how this law is formulated, all employees will have contractual forms before them that employers can also demand wages for these times, on which you can already take a stand! – Again, protection for employers and the exact opposite of what we need here. We have repeatedly offered you, in the public discussions and also in the discussions in the Committee, to work with us, including at the social partners level, to develop comprehensive solutions to the problem. But what you are doing today is completely inadequate, even bringing individual deterioration, significant deterioration for the workers and has also been made bad. We've done a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21948	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e21970	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions that have been torn into parts of the labour markets in recent years have correctly described Mr Leutner. [[Abg. Riepl: And you have no answer!]] There are unfair contractual clauses. Since 6. In December, the National Council decided, there was a significant improvement on the table with regard to competition clauses. Most of the workers are even removed from the possibility of getting such a thing presented, and in the so-called training costs refunds, the removal of normal training as a special training cost is abolished. The freedom of contract is clearly restricted in favour of workers. - So far, so good. But what is useful if social improvements are not allowed to take place because they have been sluggished and slept for years by the social-democratic trade unionists? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Such a fool!]] Then one prefers to resort to the appeal of the Federal Council – Mr Leutner also owes us the explanation of which country interests are actually being tangled here. But that's what it's supposed to be! There workers' interests are put at risk because it does not fit in Party politics. The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen, do not even know the workers since the case of AMAG, where money is being displayed on the back of the people, not only since the case of BAWAG, where trade union funds are speculated abroad, but of something I would like to warn you, please: Do not use the Chamber of Workers as the SPÖ propaganda instrument! Don't use the workers' chamber to do this! You know and you trust that we are on the instruments of legal representation, but don't overrun the bow! [[Abg. Riepl: Is this a threat?]] The voices I hear become stronger every day – which I hear every day! – people wonder why their forced contributions finance the SPÖ propaganda. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Leave This course, ladies and gentlemen! You can with good conscience take the decision of the National Council of 6 May. In December, it confirmed that improvements for workers could enter into force. Let us not stop it through SPÖ propaganda!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22096	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22117	Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate members of the government! Mr Tancsits, I would like to say once again: What you've done now was actually a threat to the workers' chamber. Now I ask you: What else does the Chamber of Workers think? Just cheer up more government work? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am the first to criticize if I suspect that the Chamber of Labour represents a SPÖ position or only works for the SPÖ, but I already tell you one thing: The rules you decide here and today on the competition clauses, on the reimbursement of training costs, are not only controversial within the employee's representatives ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour, but also within the economy. You know that, and that's obviously the reason why you're going out here saying: Workers' Chamber, once again, then we will again have the debate about compulsory membership! That's how you formulated it now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Then perhaps we will be holding the debate again for the reduction of contributions. They are moving in the direction of Mr Haider, which is unfortunately to be seen in this context. I didn't think so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I wouldn't have thought of it at all. This is unique, Mr Tancsits. But now, Mr Tancsits, on the real issue. I was, like some others, of the opinion that it should be possible to formulate a common position for all parties on the subject of reimbursement of training costs, competition clauses, where all parties believe that training costs and competition clauses are no longer sustainable, as they are now in practice or in the competition clauses. I was of the opinion: In general, we exclude competition clauses and reimbursement of training costs and make it possible only in exceptional cases, in precisely defined exceptional cases! Example: the example you have repeatedly cited in pilot training. – Yes, I am of the opinion that a pilot training, which can be financed by the Austrian federal army for example, cannot result in corresponding fees being made at the AUA and the German army – or whoever – looks through the fingers as a training provider. This is a really expensive training. They are also available in other areas – not only in the public and private sectors, but also in the private and private sectors. There's something you should do. But: Please define it, Mr Tancsits. What you're doing, that's pure quackery. They say: We are now distinguishing between education and training for the first time! – Nothing distinguishes you! They may have the term “instruction” inside, but in which an education differs from an education, that is not defined in the law. I could give you dozens of other examples from this short text, where you worked sloppy, where you did not do exactly that. Next example: Actual training costs must be reimbursed. – What are actual training costs? There is a Judicature for this. What are you doing? – They make the Judicatur a law, but they do not define it. - That's sloppy! You can't work like that! That's how you can't formulate a law! At least in the explanations you could have done that, but not even there you did it. Actual training costs are not defined. It is also not defined what it means for an employer if he can recover part of the training costs, for example from the financial office or from the AMS. What can he then charge the employee of actual training costs: what the training cost, what the training cost, what the amount he himself received as a congratulation or bonus? Of course, I believe that it can only be the latter. – This is not defined in the bill! What does that mean? We then have a law under which people have to go back to justice and the courts have to define what you as legislators were unable to define. – That’s how it looks! So a bad law. I admit that there is little improvement in the competition clause – bought for the price of a massive deterioration in the reimbursement of training costs, where the deadlines have been extended from three to five years. I'll tell you: All the people in the IT industry, including the people in such companies, will “thank you” for what you have broken there. Otherwise, it cannot be said that training costs can be recovered for eight years instead of a maximum of five years from now, and at the same time the remuneration can be recovered during the period of training. Do you know what that means in the IT industry, where people each year make two, three training courses and are unemployed for each one month or three or four weeks, you know what they collect within five years, what can be recovered from an employee? Do you know? – No, I think you didn’t think of it at all, but you thought: Let's do something! There the whale and the tancsits sit together, perhaps with some official, to whom one then presses the eye so that he can bring it to paper later on. But, ladies and gentlemen, now I tell you one thing: That's sloppy! That's negligent! Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Council for correcting at least this massive Lapsus, which you have already made in a law which does not at all stand for it, namely that you have served the Committee for a few hours before the Committee's meeting without consideration and even without prior information, by carrying out a formal review procedure. You're upset about the Bundesrat that he's objecting? – The Federal Council makes use of its right to hold discussions with all interest groups. This has also been done in this case, and that alone is positive. You are no longer able to do this on such questions. This is a sad sign for parliamentarianism!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22238	Mr Walch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, what I liked about you was that you admitted that there is something positive in this draft law – for example, the competition clause. This one has been in existence since 1921. And I believe – and this is addressed to the opposition party SPÖ – that the problems do not exist since yesterday and not just since today, but that they have existed for decades. The question arises: Why did SPÖ not do anything in this area during its sole government? Why did she never come up with the idea of doing something? Why didn't the union shout after a change? [[Abg. Oellinger: I don't care about that now!]] I already have to support Mr Tancsits, who said that there is a suspicion that the ÖGB and the AK are a SPÖ party headquarters. I would actually ask the union to highlight the positive in the public and in this change of law... – Mr. Oillinger, listen carefully, otherwise you will object yourself! [[Abg. Oellinger: (imilation of the speaker's hand movements) You have to see this positively!]] Before that, you have shown the competition clause positively. In the past, the employer was able to go back and, no matter how the service relationship was settled, in reality demand back what he wanted. That's it. Many people approached me and said: Please, Mr Walch, do something now, because that is no longer to endure! What did we do? – We said: The competitive clause does not apply to those who earn less than €2,057. This is also the address of the opposition – I asked myself: The maximum basis of calculation of €2 057 gross for net, and the special payment is not deducted. This is also the case in the Judicature, because there is no special payment on the basis of the maximum daily or weekly basis. - That's the first point. The next point is: In the event of termination by the service provider, in the event of justified early retirement and in the case of corresponding short service contracts, training costs are not refundable. With regard to training costs, I really have to say that this has been regulated by law at least once. [[Abg. Oils: Sharpen!]] You could always make things better, at any time you can do something better, but that is the right step, that this is just legal and that entrepreneurs can no longer do what they want. Firstly, there is a works council in operation. Secondly, he must be careful when someone is hired and what is on the paper. Thirdly, the employee must first sign the training reimbursement. You can't throw all the companies into a pot. There are those who take advantage of this, that's true, but if that speaks around, then no one will ever be willing to train in these companies. It is now also regulated that those trainings that are completed in evening courses – whether that is the lift or something else – do not fall below them. I believe that the first step has been taken in the right direction with this legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22331	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22355	Mr Walch said in his speech that I had consistently seen the competition clause as positive. [[Abg. Walch: Yes, eh!]] - That's not right! I have probably seen a small improvement in the competition clause compared to the status quo, but not a continuous improvement. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You believe, because you are the Greens, you can squat all the time!]] Mr Walch also claimed that the current statutory status of the competition clause was an improvement in relation to the status quo in relation to precarious employment conditions. – This is not correct, because the competitive clause has already been classified as unscrupulous in the Judicature in precarious employment relations. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is an evaluation!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a speech, Mr President.]] Therefore, in the competition clause, you will only sum up the Judicatur.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22440	Mr Bartenstein has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22461	Mr President, Mr Principal! Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, you have, in any case, called a minor improvement on the basis of Mr Tancsits and Mr Walch's own initiative. Whether you can only speak of little, I speak there... – I quote you literally. [[Abg. Oils: In a small point!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr President, I believe that something that dates back to 21, in order to be precise here, Mr Leutner, in 1921, well 80 years after that, should be changed and, above all, should be recognized, and that it is undoubtedly an advantage for workers if a competitive clause cannot be valid at least under a monthly income of more than 2 000, namely about € 2 100. [[Abg. Oillinger: Say something about the training costs!]] This is not a minor one, but it is a clear improvement in the interests of Austrian workers, the majority of Austrian workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parent: So what?]] Of course, we are dealing with balances of interest between the interests of workers and employers as regards competition clauses, and we are only right in terms of training costs. [[Abg. Oils: An intensification!]] I do not understand why Mr Leutner – who is unfortunately no longer in the Chamber now; but I am speaking now to him as the head secretary of the ÖGB, particularly as to the fact that the time limit for reimbursement of training costs has now been extended from three to five years, because I am already in the committee a member of the ÖGB publishing house, not in another publishing house, because I am very grateful to you, Mr Leutner. [[Call the SPÖ: He's sitting there anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, but in the publishing house of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the textbook on the subject of labour law was quoted by Schwarz/Löschnigg and could. Here is expressly formulated – and I quote literally –: “As a benchmark for the permissible term of binding, three to five years have to be assumed.” – I read it in the Committee, I propose it again to you. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, and what? That's not the Bible! Three to five years!]] In your own publishing house: a recognized textbook and leitwerk by Schwarz/Löschnigg. There have been three to five years now and are now also legally fixed three to five years, usually three years to be assumed and only in exceptional cases five years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now five to eight years! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true! You're twisting everything, Minister! Now it's five to eight years!]] Mr Oellinger, even though the time has already advanced, I should like to remind you once again: We have made it clear that the eight years are only intended for special training for pilots, for example military pilots. [[Abg. Ollinger: What does the book say? – Three to five years!]] Therefore, because you are not right now, it also does not help you to strengthen your calls and significantly increase in volume. This is also referred to in the explanatory notes. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a clear advantage for Austrian workers. You now know what they're about. What has so far had to be combined from Judicatur, Jurisdiction and Teaching has now significantly improved the Members with an initiative proposal – behind which I stand and also my house stands. Accordingly, both measures which actually improve the safety and interests of the workers in that country, both in terms of training costs and their replacement, as well as in terms of competition.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22616	I call Mr Keck.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22653	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Tancsits said in his speech about the labour contract law adjustment law and the employee's law, the workers' chamber and the union are wasting money at the AMAG. Mr Tancsits, I would really not have expected a member of a government party to show responsibility to come up with such a statement, because one would also have to say what really happened at the AMAG. A 40 percent owner wants to sell his shares. This is legitimate and his good right, but he would get more money for his shares if he could still make it that the foundation sold its 20 percent shares, because then these 60 percent would be sold to an American or Canadian group. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Jobs would be lost in the AMAG, the location would no longer be secured. Therefore, I believe that it is excellent that the Foundation Councils, namely the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union, say, no, we do not agree that we secure jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the employment contract law-adaptation law. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a good thing contained in this law, and that is the care of children who are heavily intoxicated. [[Abg. Steibl: This is something new with the Sozis!]] An amendment has been tabled in the initial decision-making process, which also takes into account the stepchildren and the children of life partners. A big manko has been removed. I would like to thank you for having responded to this at the time. But a change still needs to be made: In fact, the term “common household” would have to be replaced in order to give real care to all children in Austria in the event of severe illness. [[Abg. Steibl: Such a thread-proof argument!]] If you had made this amendment, we could, at least on this point, agree to a separate vote. But since this is contained in the overall package, where the competition clause and the reimbursement of training costs are also included, we cannot, of course, agree with this overall package. We're going to reject it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22728	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22749	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would still have liked to communicate with Mr Pilz, but he always gives his comments on the matter and then adopts himself in a nice evening. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He does not agree at all!]] – He has not even agreed, but we know his habits. However, he is not the subject of my remarks, but I would like to come to the subject and now, as far as the matter is concerned, Mr Leutner, he has to say: All labour law is in itself a right which is not necessarily in the non-contractual area, but there are certain requirements with the Labour Constitution Act and a whole number of other relevant regulations. Therefore, only a part of the freedom of contract is left open, and the freedom of contract is then perceived in the design. Now it may be that the labour market is the same as it is currently equipped that there is some kind of design and one has to correct it accordingly. But: This is the case of the courts. In the Court of Justice, nothing else has happened but that this has been converted into legal terms in the field of competition clauses and training costs, thus making a new requirement, which is quite clear: The €2 125 already mentioned is a clear improvement as regards employees, as there can be no competitive clause. I have to tell you, that was not the opinion of all our entrepreneurs. There are sectors such as the hairdressing sector, where such sums are not at all achieved in wage, so the competition clause is no longer in place. So on the one hand not all agreed, but on the other hand this is a very clear improvement for the worker. Secondly, also with regard to training costs. Mr Oellinger, there is no such 3,000-€ rule at all. This is nowhere a matter of case law. Now it is precisely 5 000, or 8 000 are a result of civil service law. [[Abg. Oils: years!]] Years, excuse me! That's right. [[Abg. Riepl: Now you've messed up something!]] . I thank you for the note that the eight years are a result of civil service law, which is a consequence of the fact that this is a very clear clarification. [[Abg. Oils: An intensification!]] What surprises me in this context is that we should have a positive assessment of the improvements. What is still necessary in this way will turn out accordingly. - Off!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22829	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22850	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, the world is not as clear as you have now tried to do with the competition clause. You're missing a little practice, I'd say. I can tell you where. It has, I think, been three agenda items before: There we talked about the nursing professions in a different context. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now we don't start again!]] They all know that they are just expected from elderly workers, nurses et cetera, that they are flexible and practical, that they just keep adapting to the labour market. [[Abg. Neudeck: Just because you want to make an old speech...!]] As they themselves do, nobody's been asking for a long time. - That's one thing. Now, Mr Mitterlehner – and that's not funny, but it's a daily sad reality of caregivers, of elderly workers and of people working in health professions – it's someone who works in an association, for example in the public service, within the framework of a half-day job, has been training there and now has the chance to go to the relief work in the same city and work there. She cannot do that now because she is preventing the competition clause from doing so. That's what you want to call progress? Is that really a progress? – This is a step back, Mr Mitterlehner! Let me explain this, I know it better than you do! You can learn something from me! Whether you believe it or not: It is! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Mitterlehner, you can learn something from me not only because I know it, but also because I come out of practice and experience regularly that people working in the health and care sector cannot change their job because of this disgusting competitive clause. All those who have not yet been affected will also be included in this competition clause in the future. I already got a call from one of the club's employees, and she told me: Imagine, since you discussed this in Parliament and since you know it from Parliament's correspondence, we are also thinking of introducing it, saying: That's what we're going to introduce now! We didn't know that, that's a good story, because with it we can bind you! You have to do the training and further training with us, otherwise you will no longer be bearable with us, because it is necessary in this area to continue continuing and continuing training! Now, Mr Mitterlehner, explain to me how this will be regulated for this group of people in the future! These employees are really bound to an association and have to stay there whether they want it or not – except they take the great costs of repaying the training into purchase. If You are still saying that this is an improvement, Mr Mitterlehner, then I must say to you: Then tell yourself the untruth! That's what you need to do yourself. Look Why don't you take this a little closer? If you say, If it's different now, then we'll change it! I can tell you: It's not that easy! You should have looked at the Murks right from the beginning: Where may there be greater problems than benefits? This competitive clause, especially in the care sector, makes more problems for each employee and for the individual employee than it will ever bring benefits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22919	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e22940	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! This Federal Government has launched a number of major improvements for social families. An extremely important measure was the introduction of family hospice in 2002. It allows workers to take a break from work in order to be there for the care and care of dying or seriously ill children. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Not for care!]] The value of this downtime shows that some 800 applicants have been registered over the two-year period, i.e. the number of those who take advantage of family hospice. 200 to 250 children learn the terrible diagnosis of cancer every year in Austria. In addition to the terrible human suffering, the question arises for the parents of these affected children: How do we cope with the future? After cancer therapies usually last for more than half a year, it is necessary to extend the reference period of family hospice to accompany severely ill children from six months to nine months. Furthermore, the right to Karenz will also be extended to accompany the children of the spouse or partner, and this will also try to address the current forms of family life. This covers the essential needs of those concerned. It's a shame that the opposition is still too few. As these changes in the legislation mentioned by me are a further development of the current measures for the care-needed in Austria and should be implemented jointly, I would like to conclude by reminding the Federal Government that, since 2002, this German government has created a very good social network for those in need of care and their families in Austria by means of a hardness compensation fund and by making substantial improvements for caregivers in the pension system. So it's a shame that this change in law to family hospice can't be achieved in consensus. In any case, we are on the right path.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23001	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23022	It is bad, ladies and gentlemen, if the social spokesperson of the ÖVP is here to speak and even admits that, because of your missing labour market policy, 380 000 people looking for work – I have said work; if you had been careful, you would know it – are increasingly forced to sign in the employment contracts tricky formulations and “dirty” clauses if they want a job. [[Abg. Grill: 320!]] We all know very well that someone looking for a job is signing a lot to get a job. But it's strange that this is more and more about itself and that the Chamber of Commerce is playing their little games. In fact, contracts are presented which, on the one hand, make the maximum available to workers and, on the other hand, limit their freedom of movement more and more. And what are you doing with your policy? . They support this by extending the period of three years' reimbursement to five years, as has already been said, to cover the total cost of training. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] Mr. Minister, you don't always have to squat back there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What workers need is not competition. What workers need is not a flat-rate provision on the recovery of labour costs. What workers would at last need, these are fair rules for their working conditions. And we are far away, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties! And if someone like the Chamber of Labour shows this missing policy, a policy that is directed exclusively against the workers, then it is more than strange for me if the social spokesperson Tancsits is here and threatens against the representatives of the workers' interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23103	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23124	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask Mr Spindelberger whether he was so social. Mr Spindelberger, what was going on in the Styrian County Hospital before you became a Member? How'd everything go there? Was that all social? [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Or: Mr Keck explained to us the long and broad nature of the SPÖ, but said in the same breath that the SPÖ will vote against the family hospice improvement. It's definitely social cold! You have to show that once. You always like to turn the spear around. I don't want to do this any more. Ladies and gentlemen! The colleague, Mr Mittermüller, has explained exactly what this change of law is all about. At the beginning of the year, this change in law should have entered into force, but due to your course of action in the Federal Council, namely with your opposition and so on, it has not been possible to initiate this already. That is, parents, mothers, fathers and children must wait until the SPÖ is ready to say: Yeah, maybe that's a good thing! If we're not for that, many things could go down the stream! And when talking about “social cold”, I have to say: Although the SPÖ is always declared to be the socially active party, actions speak more than a thousand words, and your actions show quite the opposite. This is not only in family hospice, but also in the whole area of health care, where you demand additional benefits and whatever else else, and also in many other areas. I ask you to: Think about what you're doing for people on the spot, and only then do you talk about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23179	The next Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23200	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs Steibl, you already know why we are voting against the family hospice amendments. – Because they are contained in this collective law, we are voting against it. Just for that reason! I wonder very much about the course of this debate. I am thinking only of the colleague Mitterlehner, who turned out here and tried to sell deterioration in this adaptation law as positive. He turned out here and admitted that deadlines should be extended, and said: Everything else to be done will eventually turn out! - And off! That's it. Mr Mitterlehner, if that was your whole contribution to discussing a really serious problem, namely workers' rights, then I think this is really strange. Mr Tancsits, the social spokesperson of the ÖVP, stood out here and denied any criticism of the opposition parties as a nuisance, as a pity, as a propaganda, as a fairy tale. I really wonder if in this country only more can be said what you think is right. I think there is still criticism and freedom of expression in our country. Despite your power and driving policy, you simply have to accept this, whether it suits you or not, Mr Tancsits, it's just like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also wonder if you really believe what you are saying here, namely that this law is a clear social policy progress. I wonder where you see a social policy progress when deadlines are extended if the competition clause does not fall completely if workers have to become more and more mobile, more flexible and they prevent them from doing so by means of this law. Where do you see social progress? All the changes and new arrangements are deterioration and not progress. They are even more taxing workers. However, we have all made our criticisms available to the Committee. To sum up, I would like to say: This is a very bad law, legalistically a bad law, in terms of content a bad law, and in my opinion an absolute social policy strike on the back of all employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23243	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23264	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not want to address the legal situation, but I would like to make a few comments on family hospice, because it is really an important topic for me because of my work in the relief work. I very much regret that, although we have had a very constructive discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Mr Keck has also mentioned it in praise, we have also responded to all the arguments and, I believe, have created a very good legislative proposal, now we are faced with the fact that the Federal Council has opposed this law. And if you look at the arguments, then you'll see that there's really no argument in relation to family hospice in my opinion that's against it. I believe that what you have mentioned here, Mr President, has been brought to the hair. We have included everything that has also been brought in by the SPÖ: the extension towards the electoral and nursing parents, the extension towards the stepchildren, the improvements in relation to the hardness compensation fund, and so on and so on. I do not think we need to discuss it again, we have done it often enough. It is precisely because family hospice is the Austrian answer to the question of death in other European countries that we are going to confirm this law here today. And I really invite you to do this with us again – in the interests of those concerned, in the interests of those relatives who want to accompany the dying and the pedigree in their last and difficult days. I invite you once again to confirm this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23297	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23321	Mr President. Mrs Scheucher, not all SPÖ's demands were put in place as regards family hospice. Mr Keck has acknowledged that some important points are being implemented, but the question of the common budget is also one that should be resolved. But now to the employment contract clauses, which represent a diverse problem and which meet more and more people. There is a wide range of imagination in terms of which clauses in contracts of employment are most of course being installed more and more frequently. It's a long list you could mention here, but the time for that is not here. They only pick up two of these possible clauses and do not really make improvements, but, as has already been said and confirmed, deterioration. We must bear in mind that these are not individual cases, but that more and more people are affected, and that in the next few steps there must be more and more extensive reforms. But it is important to me in this case to also highlight the level of democracy. Once again, an extensive legislative matter has been whipped by the National Council by means of an own-initiative proposal, in the form of an own-initiative proposal for this – this suspicion is close – in order to avoid the review process. Thankfully, the Federal Council then brought this up to date. Then there was a critical, objectively well-founded, detailed opinion of the Chamber of Workers, but it did not like the social speaker of the ÖVP. This is your right – not content and subject matter – politically. Only, Mr Tancsits: The fact that you are going here and only on the basis of a critical, objectively well-founded opinion begin to threaten, is extremely embarrassing and testifies to a bad political style. You should consider whether this is really the right thing to do. I find it deeply embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23358	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23379	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! For me, it is completely incomprehensible that you block improvements to the opposition for workers in the Federal Council. As you can see, it's only party-political games. You can't do this if we're talking about the competition clause. So far, the agreed remuneration for competition clauses has not been decisive. Now, provisions that prevent people from changing work are no longer permitted with low incomes. However, the safety of companies in highly qualified and well paid specialists remains. Ladies and gentlemen! Adult education – and I mean knowledge in the companies – is an essential factor in the success of our economy. Our entrepreneurs are happy to train and continue their employees. But it costs a lot of time and money. In most cases these costs are borne by companies. Therefore, there must be a chance that investments in the knowledge of employees will not be lost to the company. Be_fore: All our small and medium-sized enterprises need this security in order to be motivated to enable their employees to learn and train. This Federal Government also stands for further training. Therefore, the amount of free education has also been created to provide financial incentives. As a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises, I know that companies and employees are living together daily. It is very important to have a partnership, to be willing to promote and support his employees and the enthusiasm of the employees for new ways. These are the winners of success to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23431	Mr Keussnigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23452	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a few comments on the Land Labor Act, which was also opposed by the Federal Council. This opposition is included in the long list of absurd and unnecessary oppositions to numerous acts of the National Council. This opposition has been justified by arguments regarding the rules on competence. For example: Agriculture and forestry: National competence; Commercial law: Federal competence. At this point the argument was hung. A very moderate extension of the agricultural and forestry areas has been carried out in the Land Labor Act. The core of this law is that all servants involved in the production, care, care or processing of animals and plants belong to the same jurisdiction, regardless of the legal form of the holding concerned. I cannot understand the fact that the SPÖ is opposed to these improvements for workers with legal persuasions, especially since all the arguments have been carefully examined. This is actually a question of ensuring that workers receive the best possible care, in continuing vocational training, in technical advice, and in the context of a representation of interests, a board which is highly specialised in a bundled know-how and can therefore best assist these employees. There is a good law here, which has been unnecessarily delayed – and which we naturally want to decide again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23487	Mrs Höllerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23508	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to focus once again on family hospice and express my disappointment that it was not possible to decide jointly on this extremely important progress in the field of family hospice so that we have to deal with this matter again today. We have discussed this very intensively in the Committee and, of course, we have discussed all the areas and also the benefits of this new law, namely that the children who are particularly ill can be accompanied by the parents in the hospital. This is an extension of the time when the family can be together and where it must, of course, be possible for this relationship, which exists between the parents and the child, to continue in such a difficult situation. That is why I am very disappointed that support for this law is not given by the social democrats. I have to say here that this will achieve a very important social policy achievement and that this law will go exactly in this direction: that the support will also be given to those who are most in need and need the most support. And with family hospice, a lot of positive things can be achieved for the seriously ill children and especially for parents and legitimate relatives, who are especially affected in such a case. Therefore, I very much regret that the consent to this law will not be given unilaterally.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23540	I call Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23562	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have looked at the reasons for the law adopted by the National Council. Objection was filed in the Federal Council. On the one hand, the competition clause, which criticises the training reimbursement clause, has already been sufficiently discussed and argued. However, the extension of the membership of the Chambers of Labour also served as a reason for the rejection of the Federal Council. I would like to hold on briefly to what we are talking about here at all. It is a question of including persons in a legal representation which is currently without any legal representation. These are persons who work without a valid KV, without training guidelines and employee protection provisions. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it embarrassing that a party which supposedly represents the interests of workers is refusing such a law for these reasons. But a brief word about the Chamber of Workers and the Party Policy of the Chamber of Workers. For the SPÖ in Vienna there is the member newspaper “AK for you”, it will probably be known to you. In the last period, a request for a minority group was rejected in the Chamber of Workers' Chamber by the votes of the FSG, according to which all parties represented in the General Assembly of the Workers' Chamber may also write “AK for You” in this membership paper. If this is not a party policy, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not living in the world that the SPÖ party propaganda is drawing us here and wants to pre-gap, but that we are living in a world where we are setting reasonable conditions for everyone living in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23608	I call Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23629	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! This winter has it in itself, not only because of the temperatures outside, but also because of the fact that the SPÖ has for the first time shown its social-political face of the social cold. Since 6. There is a law in place on December – in order to remain in your diction – for all those who work in the family hospice care and take care of seriously ill children. They have opposed this law decision in the Federal Council and thus prevented in-force cracking for months. In doing so, you have finally put yourself on the social policy side, leaving the path of the major social reformers of the SPÖ, who have been there for decades and who have awarded your party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Go here and confess to the social policy of this Federal Government! It doesn't hurt at all if you make the comparison, because the comparison makes us sure. Let us look at the social ratio: At 29.4 percent, Austria is far above the EU average of 27 percent. It has already been addressed by the Civil Service Act today, and many, including from your ranks, have agreed to accept the challenges of the future in the care sector. We know that over the next 20 years, we will have around 800,000 people with care needs in our country. This is a problem, but this is also a chance you don't want to see: That is 40 000 jobs in the next five years alone. Go along with us on the path of social reform, trust it, because that is good for Austria – and don't think it is party-political!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23673	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs in 1311 of the Supplements. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee shall submit the application, the original decision of the National Council of 6 June. In December 2005, a Federal Law amending the Workers' Act is to be repeated. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs in 1312. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee shall submit the application, the original decision of the National Council of 6 June. December 2005 concerning a federal law that amends the Labour Contract Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Land Labor Act 1984. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the Committee's proposal to give a sign of approval. – It is the majority and thus adopted. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, together with the title and receipt in 1310 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. This is the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this law at third reading, to give an indication of this. – This was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[21:58:46]] 18. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1273, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Romania on social security (1313, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23777	In this way we reach the 18th. Agenda item. First speaker is Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23801	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have today the day of the persistent decisions, I can assure you that this agreement between the Republic of Austria and Romania on social security will certainly not return to this House, but not only because we decide on this matter unanimously today, but above all because in this case there is no need for a decision by the Federal Council. Reason: This Agreement does not regulate matters of the independent scope of the countries. But now to the agreement itself. As it was foreseeable that Romania was not with 1. In May 2004 the European Union will join, talks between Austria and Romania were started in September 2003 to conclude this agreement. It is similar to the existing agreements with Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The purpose of this Agreement is to ensure social security for Austrian and Romanian citizens and their family members who temporarily reside in or are employed for a period of time in each other State. In concrete terms, it is about granting benefits in kind or in kind from health, accident, pension and unemployment insurance. This agreement makes it clear what happens when a worker or a worker in Romania, for example, has an accident at work. Or if, for example, pension insurance periods have been acquired in both countries, no one needs to be more afraid that claims are lost or in the worst case there are too few times for a pension relationship. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] The European labour market needs flexicurity. – This is what our ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein recently said in his speech to the European Director-General for Labour Relations in Vienna. The main topic of the Austrian EU Presidency on Labour Law and Employment Policy is flexicurity – flexibility through safety. Successful adjustment of labour markets is only possible through a balanced relationship between flexibility and social security. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Time! Time!]] - Yeah, but they're not three minutes yet. We can only expect and demand this flexibility from the workers if we also offer them safety. The condition for profit-making developments for companies is, among other things, the feeling of social security employees. This agreement provides this social security – security for a common Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23847	The next speaker is Mr Walch. His speaking time is 2 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23868	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that there is the consensus of all parties. The purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the social security of Austrian and Romanian citizens and their family members who temporarily reside in the State concerned or who have left part of their working life there. In concrete terms, it concerns the granting of health insurance benefits, accident insurance, pension and unemployment insurance. This is again a law in the right direction, and I am therefore seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23896	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23917	Mr President. Of course, we agree with the law as it stands, because it actually produces something that is natural in a united Europe. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to point out very briefly that it is not only a question of the fact that we have now announced social security agreements, in this case an agreement on social security; in recent times, there have been others, however, how good we are, but I would also like to say that we have announced agreements on social security in recent years, including those with Turkey and with the ex-Yugoslavian states, with services which we have agreed with these countries deleted on the basis of an internal Austrian savings package. but you promised by the government parties at the time that this would be corrected on “the next possible occasion”. – Seven years have passed since then. But now you have the opportunity to actually correct that shortly.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e23952	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1273 of the Supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – The sign is granted unanimously, the application is therefore accepted. [[22:04:37]] 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on the application 751/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Importance of Medicinal Products (Law 2002) and the Pharmacovigilance Act (1293 d.b.) 20. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1268, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (Patent Charter) (1294 d.a.) 21. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 778/A by Dr Erwin Rasinger, Barbara Rosenkranz, Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Medical Massage and Healing Act (1296, d.b.) 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 780/A by Dr Erwin Rasinger, Barbara Rosenkranz, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Dentist Law (1297, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24048	We shall now proceed to items 19 to 22 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Lacner. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24075	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am glad that we can talk in detail about the health policy of this Federal Government at a later hour, but still the other points on the agenda. This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because health policy is not, in fact, one of the strengths of this federal government. And that was mediocrely formulated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Less moderate, ladies and gentlemen, you could say: This federal government has simply failed and has taken a decisive step in the field of health policy. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Are you talking about England?]] - No, I'm talking about Austria now. But I know you're pushing everything out, you're nervous. I understand, Mrs Colleagues, but let me, however, hide back briefly. For six years now, this Federal Government has been working around the Austrian health system and does not even notice how it damages this health system in a unique way. “Reform policy” of this Federal Government means for the people in the clear text: All reforms – from the health system to pension insurance to education – have two key features: The costs are rising and the benefits are falling, ladies and gentlemen. And this is also reflected in surveys. The Austrians are giving a very bad witness to this reform policy. Only more and more every fourth thinks that this government or the ÖVP has competence in health policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'd think about what I've done wrong in this bad performance. But I leave the evaluation to you. In addition, ladies and gentlemen: Two thirds of the Austrians believe that only more rich people can be supplied medically in Austria in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] As a result, Mrs Colleague, no such expensive ads and no advertising that can cast this fact. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly draw attention to a few examples or concreteize this reform policy: a massive increase in the burden. As revealed in a magazine, ÖVP managers in the main association are already working on the next health-policy atrocities: the introduction and implementation of general self-retaining of 20 percent. That is, in the clear text, reductions in performance, and further reductions in performance. With this, Mrs. Federal Minister, you are breaking a promise that there will be no further new self-preservation. It has not bothered me very much that this is the case, because I am already quite used by this Federal Government to health policy, and these measures would only be seamlessly included in this unmistakable list of cuts and burdens over the past six years. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a short moment to remember... – Mr colleague, I am always in the scope of the truth. [[Abg. Neugebauer: But most self-retaining has introduced the SPÖ! At least stay in the range of the truth!]] The untruth, Mr President, I leave you with the better experience, as you are more convincing. We can't do that, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is: There are of course some other construction sites, such as the ÖVP chip card chaos in the main association. This now has a judicial follow-up, Mr Colleague – you do not want to see that – also has a parliamentary follow-up. And I hope that the Minister will also put the facts on the table when answering the questions I have put to her, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to address the promised training campaign for general medical professionals, which the medical chamber president has called “Fashingsscherz” – even here you were not overcrowded with praise – and so on. Perhaps a brief outlook on the cash deficit: Here too, great failure, ladies and gentlemen! They know that in the years 2001 to 2007, the outflows of health insurance funds amount to around €1500 million, although contributions have been increased and benefits have been reduced. [[Abg. Neugebauer: But you're not talking about the BVA, are you?]] Mr Neugebauer, you would actually have to know that you were there yourself when you just turned over the new employees in the municipalities and so on to the BVA. And you know exactly what impact this has, of course, on the local health phone. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You don't talk about trade either!]] No, let's stick to the truth! You just said you wanted to stick to the truth. [[Abg. Ellwall: It's so hard for you!]] I see it remains with an attempt – more is really not to do with you in this respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Newborn: But you didn't tell me the untruth! You don't!]] I'm sure I'll stick to the truth, because that's a fact, you know all too well, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... G’schlacht’ln!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen – there was still a lot to be reported – that you are leading the health system at great speed to the two-class society, to two-class medicine – this is not a way past – with the result that the socially weaker part of society in medical care is massively disadvantaged. I would now like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen: They have played the trust of the people and the health care professionals. That's a fact that doesn't go by the way. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24256	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24277	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We want a doctor! Not party-political!]] I don't know, actually, I'm patient today. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Who is your family doctor?]] But if I were a patient, I'd be confused now, after your speech. When I hear “successful”, “inquiries”, “unique injury”, I can tell you that I actually live differently on a daily basis, namely that Austria’s patients are very proud that they can live in a country where there is really a great supply – a great supply! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that you are a constant child-moving company, in that many social democrats have for decades had a decisive role to play and are still playing a decisive role in the health insurance system. [[Abg. Gaál: You're destroying all of this!]] I don't know which surveys You quote there, but talk to the people outside! I guess you did. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's what we do!]] And I'll tell you one thing if you don't believe me: The Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse has issued a pharmaceutical info – that is not the local health insurance fund that I am close to, but that is Mr Bittner – and it says within it that this whole reform of the drug supply, which was also strongly criticized by you, has led to the fact that the increase rate is sensationally low – quote of the Landeskrankenkasse – and, secondly, that it is confirmed that the supply of cancers and other high-quality means, innovative means, and that there are no signs of a drug-mind supply. – So far as the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. Otherwise, the following can be seen: For example, the Vienna regional health fund now sets up osteoporosis screening at the institutes. I wonder how this can then be reconciled with the question of women and prevention. – The Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse is not under the influence of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That bothers you, gal?]] So I think you should take your own nose. We also have a subject to deal with today, which has become necessary through the recognition of the Constitutional Court, namely the reorganisation of the demarcation of the public pharmacy to the house apotheke. The Constitutional Court annulled a consensus of the Pharmacy Chamber and the Chamber of Physicians from 2000 by saying that the priority of the public pharmacy is to be applied, but leaves a margin of time by saying: If it is necessary for reasons of medical care, but also by means of remedies, the legislator may take reasonable measures accordingly. I'll tell you: The supply of rural areas is a reason to justify such a measure! If I tell you that 20 percent of the practices in the former East Germany can no longer be occupied by 2010 and therefore are allowed to do house pharmacies there so that you can even bring doctors to the country, we know what time bomb we sit on theoretically. It is about the care of the elderly, the disabled and women. If I hear you are worried about the rural area today by the SPÖ, I remind you: Those who don't have a car probably don't have it easy if they have to drive 20 kilometers or more to a pharmacy in the night shift. It is therefore about the optimal supply of medicines for the patients. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I submit this request and request the President for his scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure for the distribution to Members. I would like to explain the main points of this request. First: In communities in which only one doctor of general medicine has his permanent place of work with a cash insurance contract, the provision of medicines is provided by the house apotheque. In these cases, medical care goes hand in hand with the secure delivery of medicinal products. The 4-kilometre barrier zone around a pharmacy is not enough in this municipality. This means that the house apothecary remains in any case. This is intended to prevent strategic relocations of the pharmacy. Secondly, In municipalities with two contract doctors for general medicine, a concession for pharmacies is possible. An existing house apothecary remains until the 65. The doctor's age, but not more than ten years after the award of the concession. Thirdly, New house pharmacies in such two- Medical communities have an inventory of only three years in the award of a pharmacy. Fourth: The time limit for the actual opening of a pharmacy after concession is extended from three to five years in order to increase the predictability for the actual opening of a pharmacy in two- medical communities. Fifth, you open a bottle In three-arzt communities – or more – house pharmacies must close at the opening of a pharmacy after three years. Sixteenths: The new rules will enter into force with culprits. Ongoing concession procedures shall apply until 31. ==References====External links== You see, we from the ÖVP have responded quickly to this recognition of the Constitutional Court and acted accordingly. It is about the extremely difficult border crossing between public pharmacy and house pharmacies, especially in thinly populated rural areas. We kept: We will do what is useful for the Austrian patient!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24418	The amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger in his key points, tabled by Mrs Rasinger, to the report by the Committee on Health in 1293, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. In accordance with § 53 para. 4 G.G. distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24702	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. She wishes to speak for 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24723	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Rasinger, a point of principle: Our health system is therefore still quite healthy, because you have taken over a very excellent health system from social democracy and because the local health phone still has something to say about self-government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] You have not yet managed to drive the health system completely to the wall – thank God, I add. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen Rasinger, it's not just... – That doesn't matter! [[Abg. Lentsch: (uplifting from their place and going in the direction of the hall exit) I have to go! I can’t stand that anymore!]] You could learn something, Mrs Colleague, but apparently you don't want to! Mr Rasinger, it is not only late now, but you have also introduced the amendment very, very late. He arrived at the club at 6:26 p.m. I can remember that at some point we agreed that we have a longer time at our disposal on such an important subject. I'm really sorry, but I think if we want to work something out together, then we should have this prepared a little longer in the clubs too. Furthermore, this is a completely new matter, so it would have been better. So I imagine that good cooperation in a health committee is different. But since this is a very important matter and is about the basic supply of people in rural areas and we as social democrats, which is an important concern – unlike many measures that have not been taken in the Committee on Health; but through many other measures, this Federal Government has thinned the rural area, but has been set up here as a positive measure – we will first give the law the consent of social democracy and second, the amendment. However, I would still ask you to comply with these long-term rules in the future, because only then can you do good work together in a very important committee, namely the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24784	Mrs Rosenkranz is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24807	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For a very party-politically motivated speech, health policy is actually not an appropriate topic. This will in no way bring us forward, because this is a particularly difficult subject. On the one hand, financing, which, because of medical and technical development, will of course become an ever-increasing challenge; on the other hand, the unfortunately – and this would probably be worth a detailed debate at a favorable time – is becoming increasingly poorer, especially for our young people, because of the civilization conditions that do not only work well for development. But that's not the time for tonight. So I will now focus on what was recently negotiated in the Health Committee, and, above all, since the four applications are almost exclusively consensusable, I will comment on that point which has posed a certain political challenge. In health policy, there are also strong representations. It is therefore necessary to bring health policy objectives into line with the political potential and feasibility. And that's exactly what the pharmacy law is all about. One point is to adapt to an EU directive, which does not allow us to join in the admission of pharmacies to citizenship, but – we do it now and we change it – we attach it to the pharmacies diploma. The second point was, as Mr Rasinger said, forced by a constitutional court's knowledge, a new regulation of the relationship between public pharmacies and house pharmacies. And on top of that, also for the many mayors among you: We have a principle which the Constitutional Court of Justice has recently confirmed, namely that it is useful to make a distinction between the prescribed doctor and the selling pharmacist. This, first of all, is because a public pharmacy can of course offer a more comprehensive offer in terms of its range and its maintenance; secondly, it makes sense – without imposing anything on anyone – because all economic motives are excluded in writing practice. However, this principle, which exists, cannot be maintained rigorously, in other words, where the general supply in rural areas would otherwise be at risk, because, in a reasonable time, a public pharmacy could not be there, because the patient's income would be too low. So there are house pharmacies there. And since finding a mode of Vivendi between these two groups, that's why it went. Ms Csörgits and Mr Dr. Grünewald: The amendment has actually come to you very late. However, we have had to change small things in the early days and, as I see it, we have now reached the broad agreement of both groups, and that is really worth it. That is why I am very glad to be able to conclude this matter and the last week that I was able to spend with pharmacists and doctors, so that it could lead to a positive outcome, and I am very pleased that we are getting a broad agreement on this point today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24853	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24875	Mr President. Mrs Rosenkranz, the financial problem of the health system is not to be seen so much on the part of expenditure, because expenditure is relatively constant in terms of GDP, but rather it is a problem on the revenue side because revenue is constantly falling in terms of GDP, because we finance the health system mainly on the basis of the wages and income of non-residents and it is less significant than income from profits from companies or from rents and leases, i.e. from capital income. This is more the financing problem: a structural problem of revenue, and not so much of expenditure. Mrs. Federal Minister, your health policy can be characterised in principle by three characteristics: that you do not solve structural problems, do not solve financial problems, and that you also do not really resolve conflicts, but rather that you drive a little bit of a hole-up/hole-to-strategy, that you are putting up problems and that you are very hesitant and very gentle about taking necessary measures in the health system. What I mean is that the Austrian health system needs a change of course, which is a courageous approach to resolving these problems, namely the financial problems that I briefly outlined in the structure, seriously and without delay, and of course also under the principle of solidarity. One of the reasons or one of the main reasons why there is social democracy is that we have seen in our history or in the history of humanity that there are a number of opportunities such as education and risks such as the risk of being old and not being able to earn enough or to get sick or lose work, which we did not want to solve individually, and that we cannot carry them individually – both the opportunities and the risks – but that we can only bear them in solidarity as a community, according to the principle that stronger shoulders bear a greater burden and weaken a lower burden. This is also something that distinguishes us and also our health policy. Mr Rasinger has not rightly said that, of course, the health system and the structure of this health system have been built up by social democrats for decades and, of course, is a very good system, but also needs adaptations and structural adjustments. What you have done in recent years is not to make these necessary adjustments, but to push the problems ahead. We therefore believe that it is time for you to make room here as well and allow for a change of course in health policy – among the principles I mentioned earlier. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24912	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. His preferred speaking time is also 3 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: (on the way to the speaker's desk)]] Do you want less?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e24969	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When I came to Parliament years ago, I thought I was sitting in the committees, so to speak – we had the topic – the elite, the excellence, the Creme de la Crème of the professionals, and surrounded for hours by laws, for improvements and for content for the benefit of the population. Somehow disillusioned, I note that today a law is to be passed that the light of the committee was not allowed to see, why: because the ÖVP is so fast, says Rasinger, because one does not want to limp after the time because it is rushing. Nevertheless, I believe that in a matter involving at least 2,000 pharmacies – public and domestic pharmacies, where huge revenues are made, where an important supply assignment is carried out by both sides, and where two groups with different interests struggle relatively heavily with each other – it would be necessary and responsible to talk about it. I cannot talk about negotiation if I have two hours in the middle of a plenary day to read it through. This is unsanitary, and I expect something serious and therefore will not agree – and I say it in a bit – whatever is inside, because I am not allowed to say by the pharmacist's chamber or the doctor's chamber that my decision was taken three hours after receipt of a paper without any discussion. Col. Rasinger is one of the very quick ones who then write letters to doctors: Natural discount: Greens want to destroy house pharmacies! The supply to the country, the old women, the little children are at risk! - I don't want to read that again. Please tell the people why we don't agree! Now maybe something general, so that we've dealt with this: The pharmacovigilance law is okay; Patients' Charter OK; Heilmassurgesetz and these changes are okay; everything else in general, too. But if we talk about house pharmacies now, there are a few questions that might be to be resolved in a committee. It is obvious, of course, that domestic pharmacies exist almost in the same number as public pharmacies, as not much is missing. Now you can say that Austria is so rural that many areas without sled dogs, without motocross machines, without jeep and without Saurer-Schützenpanzer are not accessible – but I want to prove that. I'm still saying that house pharmacies play an important role. But that, because there is a house pharmacies somewhere, someone says who has learned it – and it's 90 or 80 percent women – he can't settle there or only after ten years or only when the last drug expiry date is five years ago, that's weird. I'm not talking to doctors now, but I'm just saying to normal people with a sense of mind, which is freedom of a profession. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... aren't normal people with house mind?]] If there's a post somewhere in a small place and it's said she can't survive, why she's still running a confectionery for it now, and when a confectioner comes and says: I want to settle down there, and then the mail says: I can't do that, I'll continue the confectionery, and I'll find that a bit strange. So, not against house pharmacies, but already a fair competition, in which both have the chance of survival, economics and smart formulation, without getting tempted and losing it – I would have been there for that, and one could have concluded to discuss more. [[The speaker holds a map of Austria, on which numerous red points can be seen.]] Here I have a map of the doctor's chamber, on which is all that's at risk. I have one of the pharmacy chambers, which covers all of Austria and is also not small. One could talk about it, and I think that that is not the case in a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25014	Now, Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25036	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lacner and Mr Krainer: Either speak You're against better knowledge, or you haven't been careful. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Both!]] Your attention should have been lost to the fact that: You here – with your votes this has been decided here – have adopted the largest structural reform in the health policy of the Second Republic, namely the joint planning, management and financing of the health system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The financial questions also arise: Mr Lackner, €1500 million, if I have understood correctly, in the field of health insurance. - I don't know what you're talking about. [[Abg. Painter: Cumulated!]] Yes, perhaps still cumulate from the last ten years! Mr President, we have reduced the process every year, we have a measure – a measure! – increased contributions to health insurance funds up to €900 million, and we have also saved money through appropriate structural measures. I think that's the way that makes sense. They have also voted with God in some areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What the conflicts are going on: One can tell me a lot, but not that I am shy of conflict; many who sit here in this room know that. I only take a different approach, and there is a good example of the house pharmacies, the public pharmacies and the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. I assume that it must be possible to reach agreement to a large extent, even if both groups are not quite happy with this solution. It's difficult. We are concerned with ensuring the best possible care for patients, and this has succeeded. I would like to thank all those who have been involved – this is an amendment – and I hope that we have found a viable and good solution for the supply of Austrians, but also for the doctors and the pharmacies.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25099	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25120	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The health policy of this government is limited to words. We've heard some words here again. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We understood it differently! We got it!]] In contrast, it is already a matter of uncertainty in the population, namely uncertainty as to whether health policy will cost patients in the health system, be treated according to their wishes, and not have a thick wallet so that they can remain in the health system. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Causes the SPÖ propaganda!]] [[Abg. Head: Now promote again...! People will thank you!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Minister! If you are talking about how much money you have spent, then you also have to say that you have taken the money from accident insurance, for example, that you have increased health insurance contributions, so that these structural measures that you have mentioned are largely word aid and that the patients are more or less insecure and insecure. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister for Smoking-Kallat]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: It is caused by the SPÖ and its propaganda!]] They are responsible for the fact that people no longer have confidence in the health system. We will change that, we will make a change of course in this direction. [[Abg. Head: Make a course change without boss!]] I would also like to emphasize, as a very great point, that the Vienna regional health insurance fund has agreed with the doctors, with the doctor's chamber in contracts. This will for the first time make it possible for the domestic doctors to be available as a lotsen through the health system – an essential contribution, how to make structural measures in the health system, that the patients come to their right and are cared for by the domestic doctors who enjoy their trust. I think that this is an essential and crucial point, which is again to see how important it is that self-management can work successfully. I would also like to talk about the patient charter, which is being concluded with Vienna today. There are guidelines in the patient charter in the care of patients for health care, for example the right to respect for dignity and integrity, the right to self-determination and information, the special position of children in the health system and the interests of patients. This too is an essential contribution to the fact that the health system cannot be pushed against the wall by you, but that many influential and initiative partners in the health system are opposed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25225	Mr Wöginger is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25246	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lap, if you are talking about the money box that citizens need in the health system, you're probably talking about Great Britain where the Socialists are ruling. There you need a wallet if you want to be operated on a hip at the age of 70, but not in Austria, where we have one of the best health systems in the world. [[Abg. May. Lap: It was Thatcher! She's got a lot more...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Krainer: So flat!]] I'd like to give that to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: We don't even know you that flat!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the novel of the import of medicinal products law. This novel is a logical consequence of last year's novelle of the blood security law. [[Abg. Krainer: Talk a little less flat today!]] What does that mean? – We also extend the voluntary, completely unpaid blood donation to the import of blood products. Exceptions remain in emergency situations, as well as ensuring the supply of extremely rare blood groups. This novel is also a unanimous decision of the national conference of the Heads of State or Government of the 25th century. ==References== The aim is to eliminate the uneven situation for blood products obtained in Austria and to improve the competitive opportunities. The high level of protection and the very good safety and quality criteria remain natural. A commercialization, as it is, for example, in East Germany, where 20 € or 25 € are paid for a blood donation, would seriously endanger the high quality and thus also safety. That is not what we want, and that is why we are restricting the import of blood products. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress the very well-functioning Austrian blood donation system. We receive about 500,000 full - blood donations per year from about 300,000 volunteer donors. This is really an excellent system that we have here in Austria in the blood donation system. With this innovation, we allow this to happen even in the future and that we can maintain this system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25340	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. He too speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25362	Mr Wöginger, in the event that you have not yet reached your agreement: It was Margaret Thatcher who privatized the system in England at the time and who triggered what Tony Blair had to do with the current government. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But Tony Blair could have changed that a long time ago!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Poor! But he could have changed it a long time!]] In Austria, we have similar trends – and we must not forget that – because not only the health insurance contributions have been increased, but also, in some cases, undue burdens have been incurred on the insured by many, many increases to enormous increases in self retention. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But let me take a look at the item on the agenda of patient rights, which is enshrined in very, very many legislative instruments, and there are also many cross-sectionalities between laws from the countries and those of the federal government. It is certainly not easy to get hold of this when considering: Is a uniform federal law on patient law – with the requirement to change the constitution before, otherwise we could only resolve sub-areas – created, or is the Article 15a agreement with all the federal states now preferred, whereby the countries and the federal government undertake to respect patient rights? If you look at this government template – apart from all the differences of competence – which also ensures that a complete and clear summary of all patient rights is now made possible, and in addition, knowing that there is an opportunity to develop such agreements even further, we can only say: yes to this agreement! because this solution really offers the great advantage that both existing and new patient rights are summarized in a federal law and thus a clear and comprehensive information is provided in spite of the division of competence.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25421	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25442	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are negotiating four aspects of health policy, which are decided unanimously. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, it is the pharmaceutical import law, which ensures the quality of the blood canned, on the other hand, the Article-15a agreement, which essentially concerns the safeguarding of patient rights, where, among other things, it is stated that each patient has the right to treatment, care and self-determination, in which the representation of the patient interests is regulated. On the other hand, we also deal with the pharmacy law, which undoubtedly went over the stage very quickly. It would have been better if we had had more time. But the essential thing is that the care of patients can be specifically secured in rural areas. Of course, there meet two economic interests, on the one hand that of the doctors and on the other side of that of the pharmacists. In fact, there are very unprofitable pharmacies in the country, which often do not manage to occupy the night services with appropriate staff; then on the other hand, the doctors also have to jump in again. There are, of course, pharmacologists who say that it is a certain quality because they have studied pharmacology for five years; on the other hand, the doctors still prescribe the drugs. We have found here, I think, a very good solution, even if this has happened in the hurry. We are essentially concerned with ensuring medical care and also the provision of medicines for the rural population. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Previously, there have been words like “Mut zur Reform” and “Two-Class Society in Medicine”. I have to say: It is a lot of courage to get to the speaker's desk and make the Austrian health system bad. Because a look beyond the boundaries, a little far-sighted shows us how well we are actually doing and how well our health system works. I can only tell you one thing: You can be glad that you live here and get to enjoy our health system. To the two classes I would like to say: On the one hand, I think it is the class of people in Austria who appreciate the health system, and on the other hand it is the class that obviously cannot appreciate it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25494	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25516	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In the event of at least one obstacle, my previous speaker was fluttering. In fact, we do not think of agreeing to this extension of the transitional periods in the medical masseur and healing law, because that is not a solution at all. That doesn't matter at all, it'd be just a time window to finally make something reasonable – what you're not ready for. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Herbs, what do you want to do with reasonableness...?]] You're not ready for that! We have even gone that far – there is the request of Mr Groenewald – to give you time by the end of May to make something reasonable. But you didn't just respond to it with any gesture! This is about a uniform profession, which is overdue, in order to bring together training, quality assurance and control in a ministry. Mrs Minister, this is about people who are practically in front of hunger and drinking strike! There you can't say: Then we'll make some sort of solution. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You decided that together with us!]] “To reform”, said the previous speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Together we decided!]] Don't be angry with me. If you had a little bit of courage to reform, we would have done that! That is why we will not, of course, agree to this solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25592	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl welcomes you for 2 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25613	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lacner, I cannot fully understand what you said, namely that health policy is not one of the strengths of the Federal Government. I would recommend: Look If you look at the current account of our Mrs. Federal Minister, you will be instructed to another person. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer very briefly to this draft law, which is designed to adapt the legislation on the import of medicinal products, which has now become necessary by amending the law on blood security. The import of blood products is intended for direct transfusion and should not be possible in the future if the blood donation is not entirely unpaid. This total indebtedness of blood donations is an important factor for high quality and safety standards, and this ultimately also serves the security of supply. With the exception of this, the replacement of actual expenses in those individual cases in which specific listed donors of rare blood groups are called on to prevent an acute risk of life. A large increase in security lies in the motivation of voluntary, unpaid donors and donors whose selfless motivations to donate blood do not conflict with financial interests. Because paid blood donors can conceal their own safety risks from various considerations. This is also supported by the relevant literature. More recently, the import of medicinal products will also be subject to the necessary adjustments in order to ensure the same conditions for domestic blood donations and imports from abroad for safety standards. This also eliminates the uneven situation for products obtained in Austria and achieves an improvement in competitive opportunities without reducing the high level of protection for blood products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25660	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25681	I refer to the request, the federal law, which amends the Medical Massage and Heal Law. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It testifies to the lack of interest, ignorance and inconsistency of a professional group that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are getting rid of yourself with an extension of the transitional periods of your responsibility rather than innovation the law. – We do not agree. The current regulation is a massive disadvantage to industrial masseurs. For example, a 54-year-old industrial masseurin after many years of self-employment will be denied its original qualification test. In order to be equalized to the medical massages, this woman must complete an internship of six months without pay, for example, 800 hours of training at the WIFI. This means that, during this period, she must close her business, that she has to pay €4,000 for the education, and that means that after the internship and training period, she must re-apply to her client group of the assignees. All in all, the existence of industrial masseurs is most seriously threatened by this scheme. This also means that a large number of teaching and jobs are at risk. This cannot be in the sense of a good employment, health and economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! With all the claims of quality assurance in training and professional training in the most diverse health professions, the approximately 3,500 industrial masseurs do not benefit from a two-year extension of transition periods. It doesn't help them. An intelligent solution would be required in order not to endanger the existence of those affected. You missed it, Mrs. Federal Minister. This extension of the transitional period is therefore not approved by the SPÖ Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25718	Mrs Grander is speaking now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25740	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague from Vorarlberg, when costs rise, benefits fall – please talk to people who fly in the Air Ambulance! We don't have to fly far beyond our southern borders, things look different in health care. We don't have to go to England at all. Let's talk to the people who are directly concerned with these things, they tell us other things. I think they won't lie to me, because I also had employees who work in this area and say clearly: We are happy every time we return to work, because we are really good here – whether we have staff or patients. One could also bring examples from America, where an appetiteectomy, i.e. a blind intestine surgery, 150,000 S, we say we cost €10,900, which the patient himself has to catch. I have a former school colleague who was in America last summer and experienced it. That is what we see in what good conditions we live here. Structural problems have been addressed by the Minister of the Interior. There's the OSG. There's enough... – No, that's not a headline, that's all installed in a row, and that's just reality. [[Abg. Lacner: A headline!]] It is now hopefully happening everywhere in the countries; with us in Tyrol already. Health conferences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lacner: At least in Tirol!]] I would just like to say the following to the disillusionment of the population: If I listen to what is constantly expressed by the SPÖ Group of Insurancees here alone, and if the same thing is done outside with the citizen and the citizen, I am not surprised that people are being insecured. But if they need something, they realize that it is possible to get it under the same conditions as before, that nothing has worsened there. With regard to commercial and medical masseurs, there is simply a contradiction: A longer transitional period is required, which is also granted by simply extending this transitional period. In the period then many things can happen. [[Abg. May. Lapp: But no problem solution!]] – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25809	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25830	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== October of the previous year the dental law has been passed here, and today, four months later, there is the first novel to it. This is because the correct and meaningful distinction between dentists and specialists for dentistry, oral and oral medicine was originally replaced by a common, uniform name. At the time, they have erased all the arguments of the opposition and the professional group with the argument that European law does not allow this. For this and other reasons, we did not agree to the law at the time. However, eight days after the decision here in the Austrian Parliament, the European Court of Justice has confirmed that a different name does not contradict Community law, and therefore the professional groups rightly call for the full implementation of the ECJ judgment, and of course we want to support it. But it is already unshakable, ladies and gentlemen, that you are constantly trying to push the European Union into the shoes of what you are nationally stunned. It is precisely such a policy that often makes Europe unpopular. Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, who always want to present themselves as the European Party, should consider this practice very well. One question to the conclusion: Why is it so difficult for you to involve the opposition, especially in health reforms and in health debates? I think it would be good for Austrian health policy and also good for you, because you would probably fall on the nose less often. They should seriously consider whether it would not be possible to make laws together in the sense of the Austrian patients. You should think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25874	Mrs Hellerer is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25895	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I too am now concerned, I must say, especially after the speech of Mrs Lapp, who made himself here with a mourning mine and spoke of the Austrian health system as being as bad as anything. She has once again proved how to make one's own achievements really bad. We know, of course, that we're in the election campaign, but that really hits the bottom of the barrel. Mr. Dr. Grünewald also made very ironic comments on the rural area and talked about what would not only be achieved with sled dogs in Austria. – I am home in the rural area, and I live not in the mountain area, but in the Kamptal, a rather hilly area. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then you need a motor boat!]] I live in a very rural community with eight catastrophes, a community of which is provided with a doctor who has a house apotheque and all the other citizens have to come there somehow: the old people, the young women with the children, the disabled. And, of course, it is important that the medications are also available there. Therefore, of course, I also support these... – Just, but you have said that you will not be able to go here because all of this could not be discussed in your mind and because it is so difficult for us to be at home in rural areas. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Read the law!]] Mr President, as you have said today, this has been more devalued for rural areas. I can only tell you that precisely this uncertainty that existed with regard to the house pharmacies was very, very big for the people who are at home in rural areas and that it was therefore very, very important that there was a quick decision here. I very much welcome the fact that this decision is on the table today, also in the interests of rural people who need the best medical and, of course, medical care. I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Bundesminister, who has managed to put the health care system in a truly good, secure way for the future with her proposal on the structural change of the health system and also with its implementation, which is already in place in the federal states, in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25946	Mr Doppler is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e25967	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am really amazed at the discussion that is being held here today on health care. In any event, I do not want to miss out on thanking Mrs Böhne Minister for the courageous steps they are taking in health reforms and the courageous implementation of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is, of course, very interesting when Mr Lackner's assessment of the reform policy is very interesting, but it is also very interesting if Mr Green Forest is concerned about rural areas. and since doctor's practices, ordinations and pharmacies are equated with post-service and confectionery points. There, I mean, the right ranking can't be quite assigned. However, I also think that colleague herbs have really missed the subject today, because every time he speaks here, he attacks someone. Today, at my colleague Herbs, I really waited for him to say something to the LKH West in Graz or to the AKH Vienna, but: No word on this; therefore: In fact, he is voting on our reform policy. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The cost of health care will be met by our Mrs. Federal Minister. I am very confident in this regard, as the service catalogue in the local health insurance fund is not expanded. If the intention – as Mr Spindelberger has shown – is to include chronic regret, constant illiteracy and the operation of uncertainty in the service catalogue, then health costs would explode, and then these statistics, which clearly originate in the UK and which the colleague Lacner has mentioned here, could actually still be valid. In this sense: Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister! To the Opposition: Please be more serious about this topic – and ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26030	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26052	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I also welcome the few but valuable guests here at the visitor gallery! A profession that will become increasingly important in our society is the profession of masseur/masseur. Why is that going to be so? – In the course of the tension in the profession, but also in the form of leisure activities or, for example, noise development in public spaces, man will become more and more tense and will therefore be looking for relaxation; it will be a central professional topic. But also in the In the course of speechlessness and isolation in our society, the person, where one can finally let go, where one can speak, becomes increasingly important – and this is very, very often the masseur/masseur, which can often offer decisive solutions: Solutions for the muscle, but also for the psyche. However, we must distinguish something from that of a profession: the exercise of this profession in the healthy or infirm human beings. The diseased person has to work out the diagnosis accordingly after consultation with the doctor – in the case of the healing massage. I am thinking, for example, of the disease of the lymphatic vessel system, where, of course, a healing massage with lymph drainage can help. – An improperly trained force can cause enormous damage. I think we can really understand that only when it happens to us. I don't wish for it, but it could be. It is therefore extremely welcome that this highly specialised professional image offers opportunities for training and is used by the professionals. It has been shown that a training of industrial masseurs for medical masseurs and healing massages takes long time. This means that the transitional period is up to 31. ==References====External links== I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this extension, and I would also ask you to give those people a chance that they do not want to do so. I mean, especially a commercial masseur has great opportunities in our time. We should therefore support them as well as those who will take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26106	Further word message: Mr Donabauer. He too wishes 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26127	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you talk to the citizens about health policy in Austria, you will get a positive answer in principle. I think the problem is, however, that the opposition is still, not even in the least, ready to cooperate or to co-operate. Apart from bringing in imaginative and ongoing statements and records, it really does nothing to help us to take a common approach in this regard. The only thing I have heard from you is that you want to raise the maximum contribution base. – With this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, the problems cannot be solved! The problems are complex, and I think we all have to make sure that these things develop in a better direction. Mrs. Federal Minister, we can present what has been done. In many areas the right structural measures have been taken. If there are a number of legislative proposals to vote today, they will, of course, find our approval, precisely because they are necessary decisions, decisions which simply cannot be postponed. In principle, the subject of pharmacy is as follows: It is not a question of equalizing public pharmacies and house pharmacies, which comes about – there is a very clear difference – but it is a question of adding to the house pharmacies the importance it needs in order to fulfil its task in peripheral spaces. On the basis of a finding by the Constitutional Court, a new decision has become necessary. And that regulation that is now in place certainly leads to legal certainty and ensures the operator of such a pharmacy more guarantee and more quality of implementation than before. I think that's why we went a clear way. Madam Minister, the direction is right, the quality of work is right! Health policy in Austria is good – and we therefore continue this course.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26171	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Conclusions are not spoken. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Importance of Medicinal Products and the Pharmacopoeia Act, 1293 of the Supplements. Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosary, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr President, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 1 in Article I and the insertion of new points 2 to 14 in Article II. Whoever gives his consent to this supplementary request, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, as well as on the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Rasinger, Rosenkranz resulting changes to the number designations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This sign will now be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading may declare this by means of a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We now proceed to the vote on a request from the Health Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the present agreement on the protection of patient rights (Patent Charter) in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitution in 1268 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The sign is done unanimously. This has been adopted unanimously. Now we come to the vote on a draft federal law that amends the Medical Massage and Heal Law, including title and receipt in 1296 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – The sign is issued by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the dental law, including the title and receipt in 1297 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – The sign is given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – This too is done unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:10:24]] 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 777/A by Dr Erwin Rasinger, Elmar Lichtenegger, Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the manufacture and placing on the market of tobacco products and the advertising of tobacco products and non-smoking products (Tabak Act), the Tobacco monopoly law and the Tobacco Tax Act (1295, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26299	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. We are going into the debate. First word message: Mrs Schasching. Your speaking time is 3 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26330	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Right ahead: The SPÖ is unconditionally the principle of protecting young people from the effects of tobacco consumption by means of preventive measures. And it must be our goal to stop young people from smoking at all, even through a high selling price. – That is where we agree. However, today's decision-making paper provides for the amendment of this Tobacco Act to ensure that there is a minimum price regime. And this, Mrs. Federal Minister, does not agree with us! I'd also like to explain why. At a minimum price, we support manufacturers of cheap tobacco products by making the difference at the minimum price almost an additional profit from these manufacturers. So to speak, you support the maximisation of the profits of tobacco companies. However, there is a minimum price for tobacco products. Our proposal would rather be, Mrs Federal Minister, to achieve this minimum price on tobacco tax. This would be a much wiser measure, as we believe, because it remains this economic difference in the country and we could very well do something preventive in health care with these more revenue. It would also be a good proposal to make once again the increase in the minimum margin for Trafikans, just as it was consistently implemented last year. This would in fact help the Traficants to better compensate for the loss of revenue, and it would not, above all, disturb competition. Therefore, we believe that this would be a much more reasonable measure in the sense of the economy, a much more reasonable measure for our youth, a much more reasonable measure to carry out more health prevention projects, and that it would certainly not be useful to heal the balance sheets of tobacco companies. Mrs Bundesminister, I therefore urge you not to feel any longer responsible for the healthy balance sheets of tobacco groups, but rather for the health of the Austrian population! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26372	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26393	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! [[Abg. Broukal: You smoke, Mr. Doctor?]] Actually, I would have expected more than this slalom run: What is it like and what about it? [[Abg. Broukal: You should have listened!]] Mrs Schasching, you are active in sports, and sport is an essential element of health, I would say now that it is almost the most important element for me. [[Abg. Broukal: Are you a sports smoker?]] But in one we should agree: Austria has a very bad rate of smokers who enter the youth age. I believe that it should also be consensus that there should be something to be done against this current price competition, which you encounter on posters. And the experts say that the minimum price is the most efficient method. I just think and simple, you want: Hu, hot, “I don’t know! ” maybe, yes, no. - Say yes! Say yes, and you have peace! Say yes to health, say yes to the tobacco at least price, then show you that youth is a concern that it is your concern that we finally get away from the top place among those countries – alongside Greenland and others – in which much too much is smoked! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, because it only serves the tobacco industry!]] Then we're all credible together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The WHO – the WHO, please, not me – has said that a minimum price is a very suitable measure to achieve success. If you make a tax regulation, the minimum price can still be lessened. You know that very well, so that would be a pseudomeasure. I think that we should finally do nails with our heads in health policy and, above all, in the prevention of young people. It is really not necessary that 14 000 people die early in our country and that, despite various laws, the twelve-year-olds already smoke like the lock. I don't think we need to be proud of that. With this in mind, every measure is right for me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26487	Now, Mr Mag. Mag. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26509	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree on a point with my previous speaker: In Austria too much smoking is done – I say as a former chain smoker – and I think too many young people smoke compared to other European countries. But I am also quite clear that the path you are taking today with this template is the wrong one. I just want to quote from tomorrow's media. The “Press” of tomorrow: ‘Minimum price creates monopoly’. On the one hand, monopolies will remain, on the other hand, it will be pointed out that the EU Commission will launch a procedure against Austria, possibly but with great probability. “Kronen Zeitung” of tomorrow: “Want for new cigarette prices. Government plans lower limit of €3.20 per package – this could be EU-absorbing.” Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think this path is wrong, although I confess that when I was contacted by a member of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on this proposal, I meant at the outset that it would be possible to solve the problem. I don't believe that anymore. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who do you believe: the minister or yourself?]] Tobacco prevention, ladies and gentlemen, must look different! Stop smoking, Mr Scheuch, must take place in the head and not by a minimum price. Believe me! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have the head to think!]] And that's exactly the prevention, these prevention models are starting to bother me. [[Abg. Amon: The colleague Schasching said that differently!]] Mr Schasching has clearly explained our position. It pointed out that an increase in trade margins could also be a right way or the increase in tobacco tax. That would be the right way, from our point of view and, as I believe, the right path in general. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to point out another problem. We discuss addiction, nicotine addiction and prevention. I would just like to point out that, although you promised us two years ago, you have not yet presented a concept to combat alcohol addiction in minors. There is a letter from my colleague, Mr President, to you that we have discussed this issue in the Committee on Finance, in view of the incidents that occur in the youth field in particular. I would just like to point out that we also have non-substantial addiction areas, such as the Internet search or the search for games. In conclusion: From my point of view, there should not in any way be a evasion of the legal provisions in Austria as regards small gambling. Wherever there is little gambling, as in Carinthia, for example, or in the Styria – and here there are the opinions – there is an increase in gambling and the associated debt, but also an increased crime rate. That is why I am very grateful, Mrs Federal Minister, that you also confirmed this to me in a parliamentary reply to the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26572	Mr Lichtenegger has spoken. Four minutes? [[Abg. Lightenegger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Less!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26608	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Belgium, France, Italy and Ireland have found the same solutions from similar considerations; Switzerland, Slovakia, Romania are considering. Rapid action is appropriate and necessary before the low-cost brands establish themselves. I think it's just a dubious excuse when you say that you're basically for it, but maybe it doesn't fit. Mr Schasching has also repeatedly said that she is missing initiatives towards prevention. – That would be an initiative that I believe would be absolutely supportive. If you formulate the excuse here, that only supports the maximisation of the profits of companies, then you also need to know that most large companies always offer two price categories to cigarettes: on the one hand, the high-priced ones by building up their brands, a lot of money also in the brand introduction, investing in the application, on the other hand, also cheap products, as we know them, for example, from mobile phones. So this has nothing to do with profit maximization. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This has a lot to do with it!]] I think that's just politics. That 20 percent of boys and 25 percent of girls already smoke at the age of 15 and that for our health system due to secondary diseases such as cardiovascular disease or cancer, to name just a few, follow-up costs of 2 billion arise, you like to buy. Instead of agreeing and saying that this is a good story, you prefer to make politics for the sake of politics. But, well, that's your way of dealing with responsibility to young people. It is not ours – therefore, this draft that we consider to be a good solution!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26645	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Requested time: 5 minutes, remaining speaking time of the Group: 17 minutes. Feel free! - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26666	After 5 minutes of cigarette length, I think I'm shorter. There are solutions that are neither good nor bad. I'll tell you how I came to my decision. I got calls from the department where it was explained to me that it would be important not to offer the youth any locks to get into tobacco consumption. Of course, as Minister of Health, you think: Well, it's not quite wrong, maybe even primarily reasonable. However, I am still very happy with the solution because I think several measures should be taken. First: If you already want this minimum price, you should make sure that the EU law really does. We'll see. But here I trust the Minister, because the opposition cannot, as it were, take off this work from the government. She shouldn't. Secondly, we were informed that the tax share, i.e. tobacco tax, could not be increased because it is already at the upper limit and otherwise the tobacco industry is facing a complaint before the ECJ. This proved to be wrong after all. Thankfully, even Mrs Rauch-Kallat says that there is still some room. That is why I see this as the first step, and I believe that other measures, including fiscal measures, are justified, especially if the money is also committed to health and not every year with the Lord. Minister of Finance has to be negotiated for months, whether he is willing or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26712	Now, Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26733	Mr President. High house! Let me comment briefly on this. Mr Maier, you know very well that we have also made a comprehensive programme for non-smokers and non-smokers, and together with you have decided to thank God. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Where?]] We are in implementation, and we are able to also win many for the exit through the support of the health insurance companies. The measure we are putting forward today is simply and simply an attempt not to let the price struggle of companies, tobacco companies on the back of young people and, above all, to protect young people, of whom we know, of course, that they are also getting through the cheap price. Now you can discuss: What's reasonable? What to do in tax? What about a minimum price scheme? I am not a financial expert, and I can promise you that I will be very serious in working with the experts of the Ministry of Finance in order to find the best way to find the best way, as we can obtain money, additional money for health care through tobacco tax. I would like to introduce the model to which we will decide. We will also have to adopt a corresponding regulation. I would definitely like to thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26768	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 2 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26789	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I may request an amendment from Dr. Erwin Rasinger, Elmar Lichtenegger, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Anton Wattaul, Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on request 777/A by Dr. Erwin Rasinger, Elmar Lichtenegger, Dr. Kurt Grünewald, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Anton Wattaul, Werner Kogler, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Law on the manufacture and marketing of tobacco products and the advertising of tobacco products and non-smoking products (Tabak Act), the Tobacco monopoly law and the Tobacco Tax Act (777/A), which the National Council intends to adopt at second reading, and I would like to explain this amendment in its key points. The purpose of this proposal is to clarify the existing restrictions on advertising and the acceptance of benefits by tobacco traficiants and to close gaps. It is about clarifying wholesalers and third parties in the advertising ban, about balanced product range design and about clarifying the ban on money acceptance or prohibiting money-value benefits. In short, I would like to refer to the regulatory authority for the Minister of Health for the purpose of a minimum price system for tobacco products. I very much welcome any measure that prevents or at least makes it difficult to enter the drug use, especially if you know that tobacco companies with cheapest marks are going to catch customers and are also addressing very young customers with it. In addiction, primary prevention is the most important. That means: Be the beginnings! The health and social system costs a lot of money for follow-up costs in the event of addiction. For this reason, this measure, which costs nothing but is very effective, is to be supported. I therefore cannot understand that the SPÖ Members do not vote in favour of this. The EIA takes this political responsibility seriously anyway. It is a political responsibility for the benefit of the Austrian population, especially the youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e26865	The amendment tabled by Mrs Riener and presented at the heart of the amendment tabled by Mrs Erwin Rasinger, Lichtenegger, ladies and gentlemen on the motion for a resolution 777/A by Mrs Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr Grünewald, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Wattaul, Mr Kogler on a federal law which amends the Federal Law on the manufacture and marketing of tobacco products and the advertising of tobacco products and the non-smoking protection, the Tobacco monopoly law and the Tobacco Tax Act, in 1295, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27020	Mr Neudeck has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27041	Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment, the government parties – in this case also with the support of the Greens – demonstrate that they take their responsibility for public health seriously. The price is certainly an entry limit that can be secured. For SPÖs who do not agree to this request, as in many decisions over the last few days, there may have been some sort of election strategy that there are fewer traffickers than smokers. And that is why you do not go along with this request, because it may be much cheaper for the smoker if he gets cheaper cigarettes. In addition, this application also lays down that third-party discounts or other advantages which would have led to a deterioration in the market cannot also be granted. Thus, it is also a safeguard for the small traffickers that they can stand in competition. I am in principle opposed to monopoly, but if there are any, then everyone should be measured at the same level to ensure that the small trailers are secured. If the SPÖ says you should increase the span and taxes, then this is again a cry after tax increase. This should be like a red thread with your wishes in recent times. Interesting is only that of pages The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in particular the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States If you want to increase the span for the Trafikanten, I would ask you to speak to your representatives in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27080	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27102	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, if there really was a advice that lit fire and the changes in the giving up of smoking, we would have used it for a long time. I don't think it's about adults. I know very many very sympathetic, very smart smokers who just need this to be happy. – That’s in the room, and we won’t change that either. Personally, it hurts me with the young people. If 37 percent of girls and 26 percent of boys smoke at least once a week and each third party is a smoker or smoker over 15 years of age, this is very, very worrying. Now I've got it easy, 'cause I've never taken a cigarette. A very good means was that as an ice skater, I had a four-minute course to run, and that was a “cushioner”. - That's what we called it. If you have to go through such a scumbag, you simply can’t allow yourself to smoke. The nice thing about it is that such a success through a sporty performance actually gives you something for a lifetime, while smoking a cigarette is soon over. We have now, of course, broken our heads all over Europe – probably all over the world – about how we can protect young people. There have already been successes in EU Member States: Ireland – since 1988 – in France, Belgium and Italy, with the minimum selling price. The measure has proved successful. – You can hear that from studies there. She has shown that when the tobacco price is high, young people in particular are less likely to reach the cigarette. In addition, this law, which we want to adopt, will prevent young people from being increasingly approached by low-cost providers and the price spiral from turning downwards. I can therefore first of all support this request in the best sense of my conscience that young people should be educated into sports people and that they should then be tried to stop smoking. I would say in this case: Thank you for this law. There's no smoke, but not without a smoke-callat.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27145	Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27166	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll stay with the previous speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Her name is Ingrid Wendl!]] You are right: Then the Director-General of the Gallaher Group or the ATW calls, he orders, and you play. Let's put aside your idea that setting minimum prices is not about tobacco tax. A quick look at the UK: There is no variety below €5.50, for the Marlboro smokers the price is even €7.20. – It is therefore very much about the tobacco tax, but one would not be guaranteed: the profit of the group to which the ATW was sold far too cheaply! But the summit of your kind of policy is the amendment that is now under way. That's a real fun! In a market economy, the ÖVP stands up with the support of the liberals and the Greens and decrees that the merchant should not get money in his trafic for an advertising sign if it is set up. That means nothing but if you were to write into the law immediately, only the ATW may make advertising in the traffic. It is even worse to prescribe the range that the Trafikan has to keep by law. Not what his customers buy, he has to keep available, but what you prescribe!- Oh, my God! Good luck with this of your idea of a liberal market economy! In this sense: The Trafians are the ones who can really stop the young people from smoking. You could have given them a little more excitement, and you should have forced them to carry out information. – That would have been far better: with the little Trafikanten and not against them! The one presented here is really communist plan economy. I “gratulate” on such derailments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27242	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1295. Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr Grünewald, Mr Hizu have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament Dr. Rasinger, Lichtenegger, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of new points in Article II. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, together with the amendment to the numbering of Members Dr. Rasinger, Lichtenegger, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft at third reading to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:36:39]] 24. Point The Federal Council's opposition of the 9th General Council was based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. of 25 February 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 25 February 2006 January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (9. FSG-Novelle) (1302 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27312	We're now on the 24th. Agenda item. With regard to the opposition of the Federal Council, a period of up to 24 years was granted to the Transport Committee. It was set up for reporting on 1 February 2006. The negotiations on this subject should therefore be opened at this meeting. Oral reporting is not required. The debate opens up to Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. His speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27342	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are now discussing this new law for the third or fourth time here in the House. The positions are known. For us it is important that the speed for the driver's licence withdrawal is covered at 180 km/h. As for the test in Carinthia, we will carry it out and then make a judgment under the motto “judgment instead of prejudices. ” I would therefore like to make the following request: Request [[according to § 77 GOG]] Mrs Wittauer, Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, ladies and gentlemen, on the opposition of the Federal Council of 9 May. of 25 February 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 25 February 2006 January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (9. FSG-Novelle) (1302 of the Supplements) The National Council wants to decide: ==References====External links==* Official website January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (9. FSG-Novelle) is used in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 B-VG repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27394	Mr Wittauer and Mr Missethon's request for the opposition of the Federal Council to the 9th. The Novelle driving licence law in 1302 of the supplements, which has now been read by Mr Missethon, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Eder came to the speaker's desk. He wishes to speak for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27420	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! It is a pity that the opposition of the Federal Council is being dealt with in such a hasty manner here. There has not even been a committee meeting, everything was under urgency. It's crazy to drive 160 km/h. [[Abg. Neudeck: Legal! You're doing it now!]] If I say this here, then also bearing in mind the fact that the tomorrow edition of the “Kurier” actually prints a beautiful article on averting maneuvers in transport policy. [[The speaker holds a side of the “Kurier” up.]] Tomorrow, the relevant Council of Ministers will be held in Vorarlberg. There is no country in Europe where you can drive more than 130 kilometres, except Germany. [[Call to the liberals: Is that in there?]] - No, it's not here, I'm just quoting what the transport ministers say. In Germany, however, it is so that the 130 km/h can most often be observed and on many routes not even 130 km/h can be driven. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no need for a test here, because you don't have to test to drive 160 km/h. Everyone knows what that means in terms of noise, exhaust gases, dangers et cetera. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: But go!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Mercedes driver!]] Above all, the opposition of the Federal Council shows that the countries – and also the heads of state – do not want to do this for the most part, except for a state captain who has approved it. For this test, sections of the road were selected, which are not three-track and where much of what Federal Minister Gorbach has promised before is not fulfilled. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't believe that yourself!]] There would have been much failure if one could agree on other things in the area of road safety, such as chain duty and winter tires at trucks. – I have seen that now comes in the new road traffic regulations. It would be much wiser to deal with these things than with shaving or shaving on the highway you want to test, where everyone knows what comes out of it: There can be nothing but what we know anyway. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Have you never driven faster than 130?]] It is not about whether you have driven faster or not faster, but it is about whether you want to consistently introduce 160 km/h more and more. No one wants it all over Europe, and nobody needs it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr Eder, have you never driven faster than 130? Honestly! We want it!]] – And if you say “we”, then are It's just for two, because there's not much left in the BZÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27553	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27575	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Eder, I am actually surprised when you speak of a "over-happy" resolution of the opposition of the Federal Council. [[Abg. Eder: Look at the clock when we discuss this! That's not overhaste?]] If we don't treat this right now, it would have to mean that the SPÖ is for 210 km/h. [[Abg. Eder: This is a nonsense!]] So if we don't deal with this right now, then Carinthian motorways can be driven on routes 210 km/h, and that's negligent. On the implementation of the proposal made once by Mr Eder, namely, 150 km/h on all motorways, where this is possible, we would have been glad. That means that we from the BZÖ should have done a bit of persuasion at the ÖVP, but 150 km/h would have been feasible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What was the result? – A few Members of Vienna, who are also sitting in Parliament, did not think this was a good idea. – Mr Cap, of course, was there too. The proposal to introduce 150 km/h has been strangled. That would have been a compromise, but you have rejected it. - Good. Now you say here at the speaker's desk that this law decision will be overcrowded! [[Abg. Eder: It's three-quarters twelve!]] Yeah, sure, because we don't want to drive on motorways at a speed of 210 km/h. But they are against this law. The conclusion is as follows: The SPÖ wants to drive at a speed of 210 km/h. Perhaps we should make the experience possible for you and not carry out this vote here in the House. But, of course, it's sad. Mr Eder is someone you can talk to very well. [[Abg. Eder: Not even the Secretary of State wants this!]] It is sad that the SPÖ's spokesperson cannot negotiate what he knows about. Maybe the Sima is still a little in the background, at speed 50. Maybe we'll cut the pace on highways by a little bit. – No, it’s a question of culture. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You want a blue light!]] We want a maximum of 180 km/h on motorways, as has been the case so far. We will decide today, and the population should know that you basically want 210 km/h. That's fact!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27673	Mrs Resterererer is now speaking. She wishes to set her watch to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27695	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This is a “Lex Wittauer” as we had it more often. We will now also decide on the 180 km/h that Mr Wittauer is already driving on the motorway, as we have heard before. Although it has been said so often, I say it again, because I can't actually win a cheerful note at all: The environment is burdened. We are burdened by noise and emissions. Transport safety is affected. The ÖVP BZÖ announcement “160 must stay 160” is not true. That was a dizziness, and there must be increased speed controls, because people simply can't distinguish as well as they're actually on the move. They have to be braked down again, so to speak. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what's bothering me. But what makes me even more busy and really unscrupulous, these are some of the statements of really important opinionists in Austria, for example, a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, saying: Haven't you been driving over 130? He says something similar to: You know, I don't comply with laws either, or only if it fits me! – I find that really dramatic. The really dramatic thing about this is that we are now introducing the following attitude with the twinkling of eyes: We then adhere to laws when the laws seem somehow logical! There is an African dialect in Mali, Lamarali, in which education and education are “set an example. ” [[Abg. Scheibner: This is like drugs policy, Mrs Colleague!]] We have 350 dead people to complain about because of speed violations. Mr Scheibner, I do not know if you have children. I have two sons at home, and I know that a very high percentage of young men on the street are losing their lives. If you live with children for 19, 20 years, try to teach them from a small point of view, and if those who drive 180 km/h, or some person who rides alcoholically, then this fun stops and all the happiness that a Mr Wittauer always shows on this subject. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Set an example, for example in the area of drug policy! That's more important!]] I don't know where this larmoyance came from either. I can only tell you: This is a terrible evidence of poverty for reasonable and reasonable people. You don't need to be proud of this act – and neither are you. That's what you see on your faces.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27770	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opposition of the Federal Council against the decision of the National Council of 25 February. January 2006 in 1302 of the supplements. Mr Wittauer, Mr Missethon, Mr President, Mr Hizuzu, requested the original decision of the National Council of 25 February. January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (9. ==References====External links== In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. This means that the National Council has, in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-01-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00139_d7e27821	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 794/A (E) to 799/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 4019/J to 4025/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, so tomorrow, the 2nd. March 2006, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
