ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e1850	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 158 and 159. Meeting of 12. In July, there were no objections at all in the Parliament's management. Deputies of Stadler, Faul, Leutner, Wimmer, Lichtenegger and Glavischnig-Piesczek are reported as prevented.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e1880	Ladies and gentlemen! Two calls for orders were requested in the course of a very hot debate yesterday evening. I've had the protocols removed. Because of an application, I consulted with a prosecutor. Since no criminal accusation was raised, I do not give a call for order. In the second case, I have been looking for the word that was told in the Minutes. It is not to be found in the protocol, therefore – in dubio pro reo – there is no call for order either. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What does that mean?]] – In doubt for the defendant. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't give me a break! Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e1918	In order to be able to negotiate item 3 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 856/A by the honourable Member Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXII. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely (1632 d.a.). I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give their approval to the withdrawal from the time-limit for this committee report. – This is adopted unanimously and therefore also with the required two-thirds majority. [[09:02:02]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e1949	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e1993	I also announce that the fourteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2011	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2036	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 123 minutes, Freeman – BZÖ 84 minutes as well as Green 91 minutes. This meeting will be held live by the ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 3 p.m. and the transfer will be suspended between 1 p.m. and 1/15 p.m. At this time, the President-in-Office will also interrupt the meeting. The following Rules of Procedure were set out for the debates on Agenda items 1 and 2: one speech per group of 12 minutes each – the normal pro-contra rule of the Rules of Procedure – then one member of the government with 12 minutes, one word per group with 5 minutes each, then another member of the government with 5 minutes and one word per group each with 5 minutes. It was also agreed that the political groups would speak in the order of their strength, i.e. not per and counter. That is to say, to the People's Group Act according to the strength of the political groups, to the declaration of government pro and counter. On the agenda item 3 for the debate during the television period, the following Rules of Procedure were adopted: one speech per group of 18 minutes each, then the Chancellor at 18 minutes, another one word per group of 10 minutes, then a member of the government with 15 minutes, one word per group with 5 minutes, one member of the government with 5 minutes, another one word per group with 5 minutes each, another one a member of the government with 5 minutes, and one word per group each with 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office, after consulting the presidents of the club, shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the four political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups are able to speak evenly. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. No statements on business treatment are made. I'll make it clear once again: To the People's Group Law according to the Presidential Conference according to the strength of the political groups, to the Declaration of Government According to Pro and Contra. – No, we have explicitly decided on this in the President-in-Office! [[Abg. Dr Van der Bellen: Reverse, Mr President!]] To the town boards, we have said, according to the strength of the political groups. You even signed that. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Reverse!]] [[Abg. For Thursday it was!]] I'll interrupt the meeting and ask the clubmen to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2100	I'll start the interrupted session again. It's the way I've deunified: The People's Group Law speaks according to the strength of the political groups, and in the resolution decision it is spoken after Pro and Contra. [[09:06:46]] 1. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues in a federal law amending the People's Group Act (848/A) 2. Point Request by Mrs Herbert Scheibner, colleagues on a federal law amending the People's Group Act (849/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2152	We now come to Agenda items 1 and 2, on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Molterer. His speaking time is 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2177	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This night we had a negotiating situation in which the Austrian People's Party, the BZÖ, the SPÖ and the representatives of the Central Association of Slovenians and the Slovenian Community tried to reach a final solution on this important issue of bilingual town boards. And I have to tell you with regret that it was not possible tonight to implement this final consensus solution by Carinthia here in Vienna, because just before the finish line, the SPÖ, as so often, left the courage for responsibility. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bures: That's a ugliness!]] We know this, ladies and gentlemen: Whenever State-political responsibility is required in a particular way, the SPÖ leaves the courage to be responsible. This was, for example, in the question of European perspective, where it was the populism that ultimately prevailed in the SPÖ. This was so in the serious attempt to develop a new constitution for Austria, where the SPÖ has left this consensus path, and it is now also true of the local panel question. In doing so, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you have to keep in mind every single one of you, what you have to do with it. For the first time in many decades, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time for many decades, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, there is a realistic opportunity for a consensus in Carinthia, for a consensus on which the Carinthians, everyone, longingly waiting for a consensus, which offers very essential opportunities for the future for Carinthia and Austria. After many decades of nothing has happened in this matter, in recent years German Chancellor Schüssel has succeeded in bringing movement into this procedural situation to enable a historical approach to each other. These consensual conferences, which took place in Vienna over hours and days and in a wide variety of ways, have enabled this historic approach to each other. I would therefore expressly like to thank not only Chancellor Schüssel, but also Professor Karner, who made an essential contribution to this historic approach. I would also like to pay tribute to the representatives of the minorities, Marjan Sturm and Bernard Sadovnik, and I would also like to pay my respects to the head of the home service, Dr. Feldner. It is a truly historical dimension that has succeeded in these personalities, ladies and gentlemen, just this conciliatory approach. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It is also touching – I said this in the urgent of the Greens – not only to see the political side, but also the human side. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you not see what chance lives here, respectably what opportunities you afford here if you don't go with us?- Oh, my God! The people in Carinthia, the people who are interested in consensus, the groups that are interested in consensus, the groups that have invested a lot in consensus today get a blow on their face. As a representative of the Austrian People's Party, I say: We want a solution, we have sought a solution with all our strength, and we have worked with every fiber of our heart on this solution and fought for it, because this solution is not only in the interest of the country of Carinthia, but also of the whole country of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This consensus, this consensus chance, if you like, is on the table. It consists, and you know, of a regulation of the Federal Government which has already been adopted by the main committee, but which only becomes legal if we decide today, this regulation, which enables 141 local boards in Carinthia. And there is a proposal for a law that ensures that consensus is legally guaranteed – as the Carinthian consensus parties want. Follow the wish of the Carinthian consensus parties, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They want constitutional safeguards. I am therefore bringing in the amendment tabled by Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr Molterer, Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, concerning a federal law amending the People's Group Act. Mr President, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to reproduce and distribute this amendment, which is quite comprehensive. The key points of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, so that you all know that, are in line with the compromise, the historic compromise that has been reached. It is enshrined in this law the scheme 15 percent in the municipality and 10 percent in the localities. It is enshrined in this law in the entry into force and effect of the regulation on the 141 local panels in Carinthia. It is well-founded that these maps will not only become effective, but also provide an inventory guarantee in the Constitution over these 141 local panels. In this legislative proposal, the level plan, ladies and gentlemen, which was implemented between the consensus parties, was a step-by-step plan as defined by the partners in Carinthia. An opening clause is provided for in this amendment, an opening clause which allows for an additional perspective for minorities and for Carinthia, an opening clause as set out in this compromise. A political responsibility is also foreseen: The Federal Government is to report to the House every two years so that we can discuss this. And it is planned for a change of the People's Advisory Council and its composition, ladies and gentlemen, desired by the Groups. And you want to reject all of this? All that the consensus parties have developed in Carinthia, do you want to reject? I say again: We are ready for this solution, we are ready to agree. I'm also telling you the impression of tonight: This consensus, ladies and gentlemen, has not failed with the minority representatives. The minority representatives have worked with great seriousness and with a great deal of commitment to this consensus, and we have also offered several options, additional elements that have ultimately demonstrated positive developments in the interest of the groups. But it has become clear to me tonight that, as has already been said, it has not failed in the groups, but at the Federal SPÖ, at the SPÖ, which obviously does not want to assume responsibility for consensus here in the National Council with its representatives and thus assumes a responsibility for the continuation of a conflict. Are you aware of this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I didn't expect the SPÖ to bring a solution here at the federal level – that's our job, yes – but we now have the solution on the table. But the minimum we can expect from a SPÖ is to enable this solution and not to prevent it. Don't do it again. You old tactical game, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That's the naked truth: They are far more important to party tactics at federal level than what people expect in our homeland and in Carinthia. Why don't you follow the advice of your Carinthian party president, Dr. Schaunig-Candut? Follow the advice of your SPÖ chairmen in Carinthia! The SPÖ party chairperson in Carinthia has asked the Federal SPÖ to stand up for this solution, she has asked you to stand by each and every one of you to do so and not to step aside. Mr Cap will now come with the idea of “Moratorium”. I'll tell you: As we know, after the election, it's just before the election. What's better? You know what you're responsible for: You don't just answer that there might be no solution today – go inside! – but you are responsible that those who have worked on consensus are abandoned by you, and you are responsible for the fact that those who are interested in a conflict get overwater through your behavior! Ladies and gentlemen, you from the SPÖ are actually responsible for something that people in Carinthia and Austria are massively opposed, because they want consensus. I therefore appeal to you to your personal responsibility as freely elected Members: Follow the Council of your Presidents, your SPÖ Chairmans in Carinthia! Leave the party tactics alone in the first row! Go the way with the Carinthians! – This is the better way for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2267	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. His speaking time is 12 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2289	Mr Klubobmann Molterer, the accusation that we would not have tried to find a consensus, I do not let it apply. I have been sitting in this consensus conference for over four years to resolve the issue of the placeboards. In the last days and weeks almost day and night we tried to reach a solution here, and we were very mobile. And why did we do that? – We were concerned that a correct, constitutional reform would be implemented in accordance with the state treaty. We are also concerned that topics in Carinthia are at last different than the eternal question of the local panels. This is a need for all the Carinthians, including Gaby Schaunig, who I would like to pay tribute to as the Head of State, who has really been involved in it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You just need to agree!]] It's partly ridiculous what's happening here. Slovenia is in the European Union, Austria with Carinthia is in the European Union. Both have intense trade relations. Carinthia is a tourist country, an economic country. There are two great countries. I love Carinthia; I often spend my vacation there. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then you finally agree!]] We have been committed to Carinthia, but the problem is – and I will tell you now – the following: If you say we should take responsibility, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, I ask you: Where Your responsibility over the last four years? You know very well, we don't need a constitutional law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know exactly what is on the table today, you can also do with a simple law. You know exactly what is on the table, you could have been a regulation for four years now! The Federal Chancellor could have passed what we have here today with the 141 or 142 local panels as a simple regulation – and the matter would have been done. So: Don't give any talks here about responsibilitylessness! If anyone is unanswered in the sense of your understanding of responsibility, then it is this federal government. Where Your appeal to the Federal Government: Finally, make a regulation on this!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's decided!]] I didn't hear that. Now appeal to us to get the chestnuts out of the fire that you have actually put in. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Carinthian Landtag has taken the unanimous decision that this question should, as it were, be transferred from Carinthia to Vienna. It is supposed to solve a Carinthian question by constitutional law. I would also like to say that. Carinthian head of state Haider constantly throws around the area with his vocabulary cascades and says: Everything in it. Vienna is decided not to interest us here in Carinthia! – It is these words that have led us to say in the negotiations, okay, in the interests of Carinthia, in the interests of the State Treaty and its implementation, that we are looking at a table and even thinking about a constitutional law to settle this issue, although a regulation would comply with a simple law. Okay, let's do that! You have to give us a guarantee so that this will happen. You can't play that down. – No, there must be a guarantee, a security to ensure that, in the future, head of state Haider doesn’t “keep us down” or “paper” or whatever he did in the past year after year. I would just like to remind you of his attacks on the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you that he has not taken note of his decision and that he has been crazy about local boards. These were almost Clownesque performances he offered there. All of this certainly has nothing to do with it. That is why, I believe, it was a legitimate need from us that we said: Think about a model that what we decide here really happens in the sense of our self-esteem! I don't come together after decades, make a decision – and Haider laughs and doesn't do it again! So we said we wanted a security. You didn't want it, you didn't want it. That was a very important point for us up to six o'clock in the morning. [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't come that far!]] I say to the understanding of what the Slovenian representatives meant: They made a compromise, a consensus with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany a week ago, and he was left – and that must be said. This consensus has been abandoned. The Slovenian representatives also articulated this. They have said nothing but that they want the compromise they have reached with the Federal Chancellor to be valid today. I have a certain understanding for that, I have to say. Then: What about compromises and consensus if they do not apply? [[Abg. Oillinger: The Federal Chancellor does not keep his word!]] That was the second point that failed. That's all. You have to imagine that once. Please, break. Not in tears now, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! Leave your Sunday morning path away! Make a decree! Make it simple by law – and off! Don't make such a theater! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I understand the argument we heard from many places from Carinthia, also from Gaby Schaunig and many others who said: Yes, of course you have to include the communities. - Well, of course! You have to include the People's Advisory Council. - Well, of course! It is also necessary to involve the state government. - Well, of course! Carinthia is like all the federal states a proud country. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Thank God!]] But they also say they want – rightly – to be understood and involved as partners. I have full understanding of that. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: You're ostracizing it!]] That is why we have also been sitting in the negotiations and we have really spent hours, I have to say almost, for days discussing this famous opening clause, about a clause that reads: If more than 10 percent of Slovenians live in a community, in a locality, sign a petition, which then reaches the Federal Government, the People's Advisory Council, the community, the country, and this may result if the Federal Government adopts a regulation that, in addition to the 141, 142 local boards, a board is set up, then, of course, the municipalities and the People's Advisory Council must be included in such a consultation process. Short and good: The aim is that there is peace, cooperation and cooperation, that we can finally devote ourselves to the issues by also finding a regulation on employment, economic development, culture and tourism in Carinthia. That's what the Carinthians are interested in. That's clear. We also sat there, understood that, but also on this question it was an hour long back and forth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have become totally unbelievable in the question! You don't care about Carinthia! That's great!]] Now I'd like to say something. I mean, such negotiations – especially in these things – are very delicate. It is important that there is a reasonable negotiating environment. I believe that with all the differences, Mr Klubobmann Molterer and Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, we have managed to have a reasonable dialogue here in the house, but there is no consensus. I just described why. [[Call to the ÖVP: Take no responsibility!]] - No! The one who has accompanied our negotiations three times with provocations and who has had to know what polarizations this causes in all camps. In turn, I mean the head of state of Carinthia Jörg Haider, who at the end of a press conference said – was that yesterday or yesterday? – he now places the SPÖ an ultimatum. By Thursday evening the SPÖ must sit at the negotiating table and agree. Otherwise, he never returns to the negotiating table – never again! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: It's my fault!]] I'll tell you something. You don't talk to the Social Democratic Party like this, so you don't talk to her! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one makes us an ultimatum! You have to take note of that! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Cap is offended! Cap's offended!]] We sat down yesterday, however, because it was not about the head of state Haider – about which we haven't been for a long time – but about finding a consensus. We were eaten together for almost five hours yesterday and really went for a solution and fought – but it was not possible. You must therefore note that it is a good consideration if we say: Let's not hit the door! Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, don't hit the door! Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, don't hit the door! Let us meet again after the National Council election and continue the talks! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Yes, yes!]] Let's go after the National Council election... – Don't you want to sit down anymore? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you want to end this now? - Please, that's a solution. Then finally make the order! Then we don't have to sit down anymore! That's easy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now I'll tell you something: If I don't cheat, there are two requests for this Causa here in the house, one from the BZÖ, one from the ÖVP. You've always talked about consensus. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Such a responsibility!]] There has been a situation for a long time in which not even the two government parties agreed. Let's not forget that! I say this so that the television viewers – many of them will probably watch from Carinthia – see that it was not so easy inside the government camp. That's what I'm saying. But there is still a fundamental question. There are some basic values such as constitution, state treaty, or the value building at all. However, a basic value is also the question: How is a country, a civilized society, a democratic society with its minorities? You have to deal with this very sensitively. As a majority, you can't just go over it like that. That's really crucial. We are not at all prepared to be sluggish about it, just because it is now calling for some kind of power. We're not ready for that. We want to be very precise, very decent and always in agreement with the parts of the minority – and we have talked to them too – who are really willing to do so and who have fought for a consensus to be reached. A clean approach to one's own minorities in a country is also a sign of the quality of democratic understanding. And that's what we're confessing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to end with the following and say to you: We don't hit the door, we're at our disposal. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes!]] But let us pass the heat of the election campaign. You're almost already in the campaign, you can't expect it at all. You're already sitting, supposed to have the election victory in your pocket, right there. I see it on your faces. [[Abg. Grill: Are you afraid of that?]] You're not serious anymore. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We do! We are trying to continue this effort. At any time, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, after the National Council election, I am available for talks in the interest of Carinthia, Carinthia and a definitive solution if you are unable to actually adopt this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2584	Mr Scheibner has now arrived at the speaker's desk for 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2605	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The last words of Mr Cap have shown the reality. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Entlarventing!]] You have shown what your group is all about, not Mr Cap personally. I believe that even though he here protects other topics and reasons that he has long tried to negotiate honestly and openly and find consensus, there were others in the SPÖ who have prevented this consensus. Mr Cap, this will probably be a reason for you to move this issue to the post-election period. Why do you want to do that? – Election campaign, election topic! Is this emotional question of popular policy from your point of view, Mr Cap, really an election topic? We were so close to a consensus. And all this is now being broken up again and thematicated in an election campaign: Who wants a placeboard or who wants it for what reasons? – That’s the one reason that questions a question. The second reason, the second question, is: Is it really the principle for you, as a freely elected Member, that you are willing to assume responsibility only if you are in government responsibility? Does opposition count for you only as no, as opposed to being prevented? I'm telling you, we have these... [[Abg. Silhavy: Where have you been all the time?]] Mrs Silhavy, do you know where I have been all the time? – With your clubman at the negotiating table where we have tried many, many hours to reach an agreement! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We were ready, as Mr Cap said, to finally end this subject permanently, to finally end the fact that some lawyer in Carinthia is deliberately driving too fast in a community to gain a constitutional court knowledge in order to bring about a dispute and a conflict in every single issue of the town board. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You... BAWAG and ÖGB...!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of SPÖ) You promote this! They're promoting a breach of law!]] We wanted to adopt a regulation that you have now requested to have 70 additional town boards drawn up. The Federal Government has adopted the regulation. You voted against this regulation in the main committee, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Aha!]] You are discussing in the committee the need to deal with the law, and you have also referred to it in your motion for a resolution. But you were opposed, even in a debate on the Rules of Procedure, to putting the two amendments to the People's Group Act on the agenda at all, that is, you did not even want to discuss it! Mrs Silhavy, consider You once, what calls of call You're doing it here! Let us look at your own group, what a momentous relationship you have with this question. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I assume you're really playing a double game here. [[Abg. Silhavy: submission, that's it!]] On the one hand, you play in the intellectual circles of the big cities as a large-liberal and as a people's group representative, on the other hand you run in the small communities where you place the mayors, around and say we have prevented the town boards. This is your game that you play from the SPÖ – and that's why you are against every consensus on this question! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Let me tell you one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's incredible! These precepts are scandalous!]] – Yes, this is an assumption, but the indications speak for it, because if you wanted consensus, then would You are voting with us today for a suitable compromise, where most of the groups are voting in favour of this scheme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] You are now in a beautiful society, Mr Puswald, you are now in a wonderful society. I hope you feel good. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You, Dr. Haider, the Federal Chancellor!]] They are in a society with Slovenian Communists, a radical Slovenian organization, with Mr. Strache and other people who like to make politics on the back of the Carinthian population that polarize those who want to divide. We don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. We want to bring together, we want a solution to this question. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] It was not easy – that is no question at all – to achieve this solution, because at the beginning there were two poles. On the one hand the desire of some Carinthians to have a veto, a veto of community or country, when it came to setting up new town panels in Carinthia over the opening clause. And on the other hand, the desire of some Slovenian organizations for automation, that if 10 percent of the population in a village demand a village map, there should automatically be these bilingual village panels. Both are not possible, we have made it clear. I think we have found a suitable compromise in many intensive negotiations, especially towards consensus-making. One cannot order such things from above. You've seen it yourself, ladies and gentlemen. For 30 years, a long time, it was SPÖ country leaders who did not set up a single additional town panel after this town panel tower of the seventies in Carinthia. Where were your ideas, where was your dynamics? - It's only in consensus. We have written a whole series of measures in this law concerning which this consensus would have been to be achieved. One point which led to a failure yesterday, Mr Cap, is of course not possible either: It was your wish, and also that of a Slovenian organisation, that bilingual town boards be set up themselves in towns where not a single representative of the minority has its headquarters. This cannot be the meaning of such a scheme; you must admit it yourself. That's where you see what's really behind it. Whoever is good will – and many, Mr Oillinger, were good will – could or could have agreed to this compromise. Mr Cap, you said it yourself: You cannot agree to these regulations in your group. Who in your group, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is now preventing this compromise? Is it Mr Einem, Mr Posch, Mrs Trunk or Mr Schieder? Are you really of the opinion that with this No on this proposal – certainly not a maximum requirement, not a question, it is a compromise – it pays off not only to prevent a permanent solution but also to prevent what has already been decided by the Federal Government in its regulation that 70 additional town boards are set up in the different towns? Only for party-political reasons can you prevent this solution from the SPÖ! I hope you all feel comfortable. But I don't think so, because with many of you, I know from conversations that they're different. Then there is another “argument” left when the contentions are silent and only the calls are loud. One argument then remains: The Jörg Haider, blamed the Jörg Haider, for he made a press release and held a press conference in which he did not speak nicely about the SPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ: Safe!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Is he crazy?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is this your political calculation when it comes to carrying state-political responsibility? Jörg Haider's statements? [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] Do you know where the big difference is? – Jörg Haider may be harsh in the discussion process, but if there is a decision, he stands for it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] In your case, it's the other way round: You are negotiating from the SPÖ for a long time very nice and very consensual, but one minute before the decision, you jump off again because you are just not willing to bear responsibility! This is the difference between you and Jörg Haider in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] That is why there is a unanimous appeal, including to you and your group to vote in favour of this compromise. The President of the Federal Republic – I believe, but still your party – has said... – Well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Excessive!]] I believe that there has been very good contacts on this issue too. But your vote is also a vote against the opinion of the Federal President, who said: This is the best solution in the local panel question in the last 50 years. And he said you should agree. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] This is a vote against your head of state in Carinthia, and this is a vote against the majority of the Carinthian population who finally want to solve this question. That's the fact. Jörg Haider, who is so much the measure of all things you are putting on today, appeals to you to give this consent to which he stands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But that's your hatred, your hatred against Jörg Haider. I'll tell you: In politics, hatred is always a bad means of decision-making – and in ethnic group politics it is fatal! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, it is really unfortunate that we are now facing the problem that we will not receive a constitutional majority in favour of this request. [[Abg. Oillinger: Make a decree!]] But we will not give up, Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, at all, because this issue is too important to us to leave it to the radicals and the party strategists for their actions. No, we will continue to discuss, of course. But I tell you, today – and this is your responsibility – we have missed a historic opportunity: a historic opportunity in the interest of the Carinthian population, also in the interest of the Carinthian peoples! And no one knows when this opportunity will come to that extent again. But you will have to be asked by the SPÖ what helped you to do so. But we offer you the opportunity for further negotiations. You know, we have made two requests for the People's Group Policy. The one of the EIAs, to which there is an overall amendment, will be voted today. The second request I have tabled will be referred back to committee. This request for referral back to my application 849/A concerning a federal law which amends the People's Group Act, I would like to expressly submit here so that we have a request in the committee and have the opportunity to convene a committee until the end of the legislative period – if you are still thinking of a better person and want to solve this issue in a final way with us – and yet have a consensusal vote. We are ready until the last day of this legislative period to reach a meaningful solution for the Carinthian population on this issue. And you will have to ask the SPÖ why you have left this consensus for party political reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e2917	The amendment tabled by Mr Molterer in the speech of Mr Mag. Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Deputies, Mr Magistrate. Mr Molterer, in his speech in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, explained in his key points and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where did he explain it?]] [[Abg. Eder: Where is the application? He didn't say anything about it!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr President, where is the request?]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4202	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner does not need to be deunified by me. It will be voted on like all other requests at the end of the debate. The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's meeting, as was the case yesterday, will surely be included in the political science textbooks to explain how one tries to shift responsibility away and blame. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] So far, the Carinthian SPÖ, according to a consistent view – I think it was that way at least – was at least guilty of not creating bilingual village panels. Now it's suddenly the Federal SPÖ. – The Greens were not even asked in this matter, but I also understand that because our position was crystal clear from the beginning: [[Abg. Lens: And the Greens!]] In this context, there is no need for a constitutional provision for what you are planning. On the contrary: A constitutional provision for what you are planning is counterproductive and suggests that, as Heinz Mayer says, “merciful treatment” with the Austrian constitution. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You are pretending, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, as if at one time a constitutional provision would be necessary to protect minority rights in Austria, in particular in order to protect the Carinthian with Slovenian native language. May I remind you of the following: There is the 1955 State Treaty, whose obligations – according to the opinion of all the political groups in this House – are still not fulfilled. I expressly say that all the political groups, because even Haider must have had these thoughts in a quiet minute, otherwise he would not have had to sit down on the negotiating table at all. There is the State objective laid down in Article 8 of the Federal Constitutional Act, and there is the relevant knowledge of the Constitutional Court. If you were to take the article 8 of the federal constitution seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you would have to be clear that you do not need a constitutional provision for what you are planning, therefore no two-thirds majority here in the house and therefore do not need the consent of the Federal SPÖ. [[Abg. Mr Scheibner: This is what we have decided, Mr President.]] You are either too cowardly to decide by a simple law, or you want exactly what I have to say to you: through a constitutional provision, the control of the Constitutional Court will be removed. That's it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To your memory: Article 8 of the Federal Constitution explicitly states: ‘The Republic (...) acknowledges its growing linguistic and cultural diversity expressed in the indigenous groups. Language and culture, inventory and preservation of these groups must be respected, safeguarded and promoted.” [[Abg. Scheibner: When has this been decided, Mr. Cot?]] The Republic thus confesses itself to its minorities, autochthonic groups. – But what is this for a republic that does not profess to have a bilingual inscription on the village panel in the village, in the village where they live? A republic that confesses to safeguard and promote these minorities also has to confess that it is obvious that there are these minorities and that they do not hide them by using only German-speaking local map names. That's already in the Constitution. So you do not need to put this into a constitutional provision again. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Further: As we all know, the VfGH knowledge of December 2001 has lifted the relevant provisions applicable until then, because they are too restrictive. In 2001! The VfGH has set a deadline until the end of 2002 to fix this. – The blue-black government and the black-orange government have not touched a finger for almost five years to comply with this request from the Constitutional Court. But now the Federal SPÖ should agree to this in night and fog actions – okay, that's your problem, I'm not going to do anything – and try to conjure up state-political responsibility on this issue, Mr. Molterer! So, please. For five years, at least, you have ignored this state-political responsibility – but now, from Thursday on Friday this week, this responsibility is all at once announced. That's such an unbelievable thing you're offering here, that this is hardly yet to be dressed in words! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you need a constitutional provision, then for a enforceable claim of the minority to its rights. Yeah, you can talk about it. For example, the Constitutional Court meant: 10 percent plus over a longer period. If the criterion is met, the ethnic group has a claim to a enforceable, automatic claim to a bilingual local panel. One can talk about this in a constitutional provision and ensure the enforceability of this claim. That would be all right. But the background of your story is that from the beginning Jörg Haider and others, including the Carinthian SPÖ, have said they need a Constitutional provision so that “at last a Ruah is” in this country. These were the literal quotations back then. So that the claims of the Carinthians with the Slovenian native language can finally no longer be enforced by means of administrative excesses, namely speed crossings in the local area; that was the background. You wanted to do this and still want a constitutional provision. This is an abuse of a constitutional provision, an abuse of the two-thirds majority in this Parliament. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If, as German Chancellor Schüssel said at our urgent request, you are sure that you are proposing a constitutional solution, then make a simple law, then put in place what Molterer/Scheibner proposes today by means of a simple law and thus leave open what the Constitutional Court says in later years. – That would be a consistent procedure. For what you're planning, you don't need a constitutional rule. They want this only so that the claims of the Carinthians with the Slovenian native language can no longer be filed via the VfGH. This is the background of your procedure! To the opening clause. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] An opening clause is important in such cases. An opening clause, which makes the rights of the minority enforceable and enforceable, under certain conditions, I believe can be denied with two-thirds majority, with a constitutional provision in this House. An opening clause, but not a blocking clause, as Jörg Haider has repeatedly tried to implement: by veto rights of the Kärntner state government, by veto rights of the affected communities. It is not only Haider who has spoken very uncannyly in this context, it was also SPÖ mayors in Carinthia – still in June of this year! – who, with admirable reasons, demanded that additional bilingual town boards do not come, because the Republic of Slovenia could claim this kind of territorial claims in Carinthia! And that in 2006, after Slovenia joined the EU, et cetera et cetera! That's why: If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, appeal to the Kärntner Landesratin and Landeshauptmann Deputy Gaby Schaunig, then you should consider this carefully. I can remember exactly how Carinthian SPÖ has prevented the implementation of bilingual local panels in Carinthia for years and decades. I can recall exactly how at a conference of consensus, which I personally attended, Jörg Haider was literally able to lean back in his chair, because Land Captain Ambrozy brought this famous chestnut out of the fire for him. It was Ambrozy who said: They are essentially red communities – he meant communities with red mayors; this choice of language is already significant – which are affected there. And if the Kärntner Defense Army – this organization is the only one! – against the establishment of bilingual town boards, he, Ambrozy, is also opposed. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! – That was the position of the Carinthian SPÖ for years and decades! We should therefore be glad that the Federal SPÖ does not join this position! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What Gaby Schönig is doing here at the Bundes-SPÖ, that speaks again volumes: It demands that Carinthia's position be taken into account. – That the position of the Carinthian Slovenian associations and the Carinthian with the Slovenian native language, as I would like to say, does not appear enough in this position, it falls under the table again! – That was and is also the position of the Carinthian SPÖ today. The fact that you are calling for the Carinthian SPÖ to support this compromise is quite a proof of my distrust that you only need a constitutional provision to undermine the provisions of the State Treaty and to protect your pseudo-law from the control of the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's better than nothing!]] For this abuse of a two-thirds majority, you should actually be ashamed – and not here with a big pathos point to the opposition parties that would “prevent” something! - We don't prevent anything! Decide a simple law, and we are waiting for what the Constitutional Court has to say about it! It's easy! You would have this possibility theoretically even today. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4377	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Its speaking time: according to agreement 12 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4398	High house! The history of Carinthia last century reflects the entire history of Europe with all heights and depths. You have to add that at this point, I think. And it shows exactly the wounds that European history knows in the larger context: Deportations, deportations, in Carinthia alone the relocation of more than 1,000 Slovenians during the Nazi period, then the deportation of more than 100 Carinthians by Tito-Partisans and the murder of a large part of them after the end of the war; the bloody struggle around the south border, which was renewed in 1919, twice – that is also to be mentioned – territorial claims against Carinthia by the Yugoslav State; the tearing up of deep graves in the human relations; the local panel tower in 1972, subsequent laborious regulations, accompanied by attacks and acts of violence. I am saying this here so that we can also develop a little sense of how sensitive this question is. And so it is justified to expect 1 : 1 to expect and demand the implementation of the State Treaty – we do – but also to see the sensitivity on the part of the majority population and to seek a solution in a consensus of all relevant forces – and not to force individual regulations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I believe, we are actually facing a direction decision on how we can deal with this difficult but soluble task – the gap between fulfilling minority rights on the one hand and being sensitive to the majority population. The State Treaty – Professor Van der Bellen knows exactly that, he also read it – is very uncertain. He's not a guide! It is only a little inside of “areas with mixed population”, Slovenian or Croatian. To define this, has been simply pushed out after 1955. They had different priorities; what I very much regret. It was not until 1972 that Bruno Kreisky, with the Local Board Act – an initiative proposal by the way, was adopted by the SPÖ and the one on 28 November 1972. It has entered into force on June – a number of things have been set in motion in this direction. And this immediately, because the integration of the population was not sufficient, led to massive counter-actions: ==References====External links== On October 9, 1972 – in St. Kantzian by the way – it became an organized community tower. On October 1, 1972, on the eve of the memorial day of the 1920 referendum, it reached its climax. In January 1973 everything was cancelled – the disassembled panels were no longer renewed. Then Bruno Kreisky, in my opinion, made something very clever: He has set up a local panel committee to involve both political representatives and experts and to draw up proposals for solutions. It took four years until 1976 until an agreement was reached which for the first time provided for a 25 percent threshold for the introduction of topographic names with the adoption of the People's Group Act 1976. As a result, a regulation was made in 1977 which provided for 91 villages. By the hour, a little over 70 have actually been set up. That means it's been a very tight relationship. It was not until the 1990s that there was a certain detachment. I would like to remind you here of the truly worthy 70-year celebrations in 1990 for the referendum of 1920, the introduction of private Slovenian kindergartens with state support, the largely non-fractional situation in the schools of southern Carinthia. Since 2000, we have given great attention to minority policy in Austria. The State objective adopted in 2000 – unanimously adopted by all political groups – is such a milestone. Or: the Topography Regulation Burgenland, which for the first time found a solution for the Croatian and Hungarian mixed-lingual communities for the creation of local panels. Or: the official language regulation for the Hungarian language. The European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages has also been ratified. And very important: the ORF law that enables a Slovenian radio program to be broadcast in Slovenian all day. It is also essential that the legal mandate of the ORF to send appropriate shares in the national languages within its programmes. Finally, the framework conditions in school, which are fascinating – I looked at it again –: 36.25 percent of students attend bilingual education within the scope of the minority school law in Carinthia! I really say that is something very special that has been developed here – and unfortunately God will turn it all under the table or not publicly honoured, because the so-called local panel question covers everything else. That is why we must and should resolve this issue. That's also my appeal, still, today in these minutes. The Constitutional Court has not done anything for decades – to be seen is also interesting. It was not until 2001 that the 25 percent threshold in the Volksgruppengesetz was lifted, and by the way the village "St. Kanzian’ – which, by the way, was no longer considered bilingual in the new knowledge of the Constitutional Court. That's an interesting point! We then formed a consensus conference immediately after this realization. I was dozen hours, as were Josef Cap and Willi Molterer and also the Carinthians, Herbert Scheibner and the Carinthian political parties, the Slovenian associations, the home service, who were on the road for really all hours, days, weekends. I personally invited a Carinthian conference of mayors in January 2006. We have really tried to put all sides – and I really want to put this out of dispute – and we were two or three times close to a solution – and today, for example, in 2002, when Sadovnik was swept back by his hardliners in the Council. – Today he knows that a historic opportunity was granted at the time. Then came the Kärntner Defense Army in 2005, and today we are again just before a solution. In this context, I would like to begin by thanking some very cordially, namely Josef Feldner of the Home Office, Marjan Sturm for the Central Association and Bernard Sadovnik, who, under the moderation of Stefan Karner, really went beyond their borders and beyond their negotiating mandates and reached great things in the understanding of the ethnic groups. This should be stressed at this point too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] On the basis of these discussions, it is then 11th. In May of this year a separate regulation, a topography regulation has been sent in review. This draft has received broad approval: The social partners, the church, the Carinthian Platform, the Carinthian national team, the Carinthian Home Office, the People's Advisory Council, expressly welcomed. So there is a mood that I believe could be used. I think if history teaches something, then: We should not go beyond the interests and over the population – minority, majority – but we should strive to take account of their intentions and involve them in a joint discussion. As a result of lengthy negotiations, there is today a compromise that many have called historic – and I share this view, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to expressly address the constructive attitude of the Republic of Slovenia here. In connection with this agreement, the Slovenian Foreign Minister Rupel has rightly stated – literally – that what has now happened is the only serious achievement in the last 50 years, ladies and gentlemen! – Thank you for this objective judgment! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This solution consists of two elements: First of all, the new Topography Regulation for Carinthia – which was adopted on Tuesday in the main committee and provides for 141 villages, with a set of stages. Secondly, an accompanying Constitutional Act, which has been intensively discussed by the political groups here in the House over the last few days, which aims to provide a lasting and balanced solution to the local panel dispute with a view to providing legal certainty. And this new regulation contains the 15/10 rule – 15 percent municipality, 10 percent localities – which already exists in localities – even if the percentage of Slovenian population falls below 10 percent, which is the case in some cases – reporting obligation to the National Council by the Federal Government every two years, and an opening clause, according to which 10 percent of the population in such villages, where a Slovenian share of 10 percent is given, can lead to an application to the Federal Government, which then decides: after consultation of municipalities, consultation of the country and the People's Advisory Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It is perfectly clear that there must be no veto here, but there can be no automatic, no diktat either. There can only be objective, honest consultation, which was also the wish of minority representatives and home services, who have also expressly drawn up this proposal. I would therefore like to stress once again: Everything we discuss together here – the compromise – corresponds to what we have agreed with Marjan Sturm and Bernard Sadovnik. The commitments we have made are valid. Ladies and gentlemen, on the constitutional question: A few days ago, Professor Adamovich wrote: By the way, a general solution to the question of the relevant percentage should be best achieved through a federal constitution law. On the other hand, it should not approach the 25 percent declared inadmissible by the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! The 15 percent municipality/10% of the population correspond to 100 percent of the population. That's not a question at all. Karl Korinek, the current President of the Constitutional Court, also considers the path of a constitutional solution to be absolutely meaningful, and he believes that such State-political issues also require a broad political consensus, and that is now a constitutional law. It was also the Carinthian Landtag – thanks for the note: it was not unanimous, but with the votes of SPÖ, BZÖ and ÖVP – for such a constitutional solution. [[Inter-call]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that today's legislative initiative for the vote has fundamental importance, which goes far beyond the edge of the day, because for the first time strongly-occupied opinions and fronts have been questioned in German Carinthia, as on the Slovenian side, and have also been abandoned. A common table has been established and a viable basis has been created, which has resulted in a draft law which is now before the House. I tell you openly – you originally said there are three conditions –: There should be an agreement between the government groups. - There are. – Second condition was that there must be the consent of the Carinthian parties. – These are: Landeshauptmann Haider, Deputy Head of State Gabriele Schaunig, with whom I once again called and discussed today, and Landesrat Martinz expressly endorses this draft, asking for us to make a decision today. – And in terms of content, including the opening clause, this corresponds to what has been negotiated with the minority representatives storm and Sadovnik. I understand one point, that you say: And what about the implementation, with the enforceability? .I'll tell you, I'll make you a suggestion: Today we decide on this law and make a joint motion for a resolution calling for all relevant bodies – because of the 49 local boards, 39 of the mayors are to be set up, because it is white town boards that are local names – to implement it. If this is not the case, I am willing to sit down at the appropriate time to take further steps. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible! That's just more embarrassing!]] For one thing must not be: Respect for the implementation of a law must apply to all state institutions – but do not be anticipative! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That is why I really appeal to you to meet a red-white-red and Carinthian solution here in the interests of a common cause. I think the time is ripe. We would keep the issue out of the election campaign, and we would give a very important signal that at such a time we ourselves are willing to reach out to ourselves – as did the representatives of the ethnic groups, the home service and the other organizations. I invite you, Alfred Gusenbauer, you, Professor Van der Bellen, let's go this way! [[Abg. Oillinger: A motion for a resolution to the mayors – that is embarrassing!]] Let us decide – plus supplementary motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4518	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Their speaking time is like all the other speakers in the next round, 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4542	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the opportunity to put an end to a very lengthy issue together, to stand out from the election campaign and to achieve a lasting solution. I therefore regret, as the Constitutional Spokesman of the ÖVP, that unfortunately this will not succeed. However, I would like to appeal to you to reconsider the whole situation, and I will briefly highlight some of the arguments put forward here by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Cap. Why is this a historic step? – Since 1955, this has been the first attempt to solve this issue permanently – and permanently solving it means securing it with a constitutional provision. It lasted for 17 years from 1955 to 1972 from the State Treaty to the first legal regulation. After that, there was a long standstill. Only in 2001/2002 were the next solution attempts to be seen. In this context, some of the colleagues' arguments have been addressed, which are not sustainable in the case of closer consideration. Mr Cap has used the word ‘schludrig’. – If consensus conferences have been held since 2002 when talks have been held with those concerned since 2002 when an attempt is made to bring about a solution at the level of the country, even if negotiations have been taking place for a long time, then one cannot speak of a "close" solution. I can’t see “sleepness” in any way, ladies and gentlemen! It is rather a legislative procedure to try to find a solution that has been taken very slowly and precisely and has been tried to achieve a real solution for all concerned. Speaking of “schludrig” is simply and simply the completely wrong approach. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: ( towards SPÖ) That's polemics, otherwise nothing!]] What particularly surprised me was, as Mr Cap said here: That's not how you talk to the SPÖ! – Yes, is it really a criterion as to how the SPÖ is spoken about when it comes to solving a long-swallowing question? That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We cannot put vanity here through state-political responsibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I can't understand that in any way – and I don't think anyone else. You often feel that you don't talk to one – of course, that is quite understandable. But when it comes to finding solutions, it must be possible to jump over this small political, vain shadow! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Try it! It's not that hard to get over this vanity. The third point raised here is the question of the guarantee. – What can be a greater guarantee than a federal constitution law? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But guarantee for what?]] That is exactly what we are trying to do in this matter. We have incorporated into the amendment a few things that include exactly this guarantee: This includes reporting to Parliament. And if you as a Parliament no longer take yourself seriously, what guarantees do you still want? Now on some of the things Mr Van der Bellen has said here in terms of responsibility: He said we were putting off responsibility. – We do not put off any responsibility in any way! In recent years, we have tried precisely to take on this responsibility and bring about a peace in Carinthia between the various groups. That is precisely the responsibility! To my great surprise, you have claimed that for five years no finger will have touched and now you want to decide anything. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (to Green) That is not understandable!]] – I only remember the consensus conferences: There seems to have been some passing by you, Mr Van der Bellen, what has actually happened in these last five years! It's not like no finger was hit! [[Call the Greens:The Haider has...!]] There have been extremely many discussions and solutions – and you know that very well, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You also said that we want a Constitutional Act, "that a Ruah is". – Yes, we want legal certainty! In this important question, which has been polarizing for so long, we want a clear and clear further procedure. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] One more sentence, Mr President. As you have quoted here Professor Mayer with the statement that it is a “merciful deal with the Constitution”, I would like to quote Professor Korinek, the President of the Constitutional Court, who said: It is a good solution, a suitable solution; so you can solve it! Korinek is all the better witness to me!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4658	The next speaker, Mr Wittman, is speaking to us for 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4679	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to introduce an overall amendment which essentially corresponds to the already explained request of the government groups, but with regard to the opening clause and the enforcement of the law two new and other points to which I am going to address. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the impression here could be that everything would be in vain. – That’s not it! [[Call the ÖVP:Eitel already!]] It has also been said here by speakers that there are untruths. And that's exactly the problem that the distrust of those who are affected by it shocks: if you're not quite honest, you always work here with a slight twinkling of eyes. Where's the consensus? – Consensus takes place exclusively between Haider and Schüssel, but not with the people group, because neither the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians nor the Central Association made consensus last night, but there is only a consensus between Haider and Schüssel. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel:...! Retrospective!]] – Let us hold on to this: neither a consensus with the ethnic group nor a consensus with us. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: What does the woman Schönig say?]] That means: If one makes a change at the constitutional level on a question, namely in a right granted to minorities in a state treaty, and does not include minorities, then the majority is making a law against the minority. [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] This is very easy – but it can only go and work if you bring in those protected by this standard! But you don't have them in the boat! There is therefore an obligation to deal with such constitutional laws with caution and not to decide on the minds of those affected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The show...!]] And why did this mistrust come about? – By this ridiculous spectacle of the Carinthian head of state, not to carry out the findings of the Constitutional Court: with the local panel rupture, which has revealed Austria to be ridiculous throughout Europe! [[Abg. Scheibner: You're just ridiculous!]] That's how it came about! – The Kärntner head of state wanted and doesn't want a solution! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And the government has led BAWAG into bankruptcy – you still have to say that!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not want to agree on the efforts to achieve consensus, and a consensus was originally found. On the same night or the next day that consensus was found, the Kärntner Landesregierung, with the votes of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, made a right of approval by the Kärntner Landesregierung and the municipalities from the opening clause – which would mean that there would never have been new local boards again! [[Call the SPÖ: So it is!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... negotiate! – You don’t know what you’re talking about!]] This would not have been an opening clause, as demanded by the Carinthian Slovenians, but a prevention clause for setting up local panels! And that was leaving the basic consensus. I understand you'll get suspicious. Leaving this basic consensus, Haider; he torpedes any solution! And you have a consensus with him! That's the only thing you have a consensus with, and that's the wrong consensus! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] With regard to your proposal that we talk about a law enforcement afterwards, I only remind you of the press release of the head of state of Carinthia from Thursday, in which he said: It doesn't matter what they decide in Vienna; I do what I want anyway! That is, if this enforcement is not decided now, then this Constitution will never be enforceable either. And that must be guaranteed to the minority! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we have included in our proposal the provision that one can approach the Constitutional Court, that it will decide and that the government can give the task of setting up the town boards. And then the Federal Government has to put it up! This applies to every house builder in Austria: If he has a judgment of a court, he can execute it. This is not too much needed to protect the minority if the state treaty is already changed! I think you should deal with the minority so fairly that you do not leave this protection! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] You also said a little the untruth. Its proposal does not correspond to the basic consensus, for it is stated in the basic agreement that 10 percent of the population and not 10 percent of the population in municipalities where a 10 % minority share has been established can submit a petition. This is a significant difference, because in towns of less than 30 inhabitants no such determination is possible, and these villages are therefore excluded from the establishment of bilingual town boards. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If, therefore, we do not come to a consensus today because you do not want to enforce the law, then you will comply with your obligation and set up these local boards which you are obliged to set up on the basis of the Constitutional Court knowledge. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: You don't want to!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e4915	The amendment tabled by honourable Member Dr Wittmann and explained in his broad outlines the amendments tabled by Mr Dr. Cap, Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Posch, Mag. Christine Muttonenand Colleagues are sufficiently supported, are involved in the negotiations and will, like the other amendmental request of the honourable Member Mag. Molterer and scheibner, duplicated and distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6093	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6130	Mr President. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, not only here in plenary, but especially at home in front of the remote screens, which will certainly be watched with a lot of attention today, and especially the Carinthian population. [[Abg. Brosz: Not anymore!]] – Especially the Carinthia will watch! Mr Brosz and Mr Oellinger, the disparaging, negative attitude your group is putting against the Carinthian Carinthians every day, must be rejected. I am not aware that there is a permanent attempt here to make party policy on the back of a country! That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You don't speak for Carinthia!]] One thing has become clear today: There was a broad consensus. [[Abg. Oillingers: The Carinthians are more than you are! The Carinthians are more open than you are!]] The clubmen – from my group, the ÖVP and also the SPÖ clubman – have quite clearly what we know, long, good and hard to negotiate anyway. But the result does not seem satisfactory to you. The fact is: The overall solution that would have brought peace to this country, the overall solution that would have made a lasting contribution in Carinthia to living together in peace and in a positive mood – the minority and the majority – has today been carried to the grave. [[Mr Hagenhofer and Mr Matznetter.]] And the grave that is responsible for the failure to do so is the SPÖ! You must assume this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! You vote against it!]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Constitutional Court Knowledge Not Approved!]] I say one thing to you – and you from the SPÖ can still blame so much on it from the last and last series: They have had the power to work with us, with the government, with the head of state in Carinthia, with the minority representatives and also with the local associations, to ensure that we can draw a conclusion here. Shall I tell you something? I find this really unfair from you: As a member of the Carinthian, I simply find it unfair that you sacrifice a country out of party-political calcula! Your own Carinthian party president has appealed to Dr. Gusenbauer that you would like to find a solution at last! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: All of Austria...!]] Mr Matznetter, just because you want to distract from BAWAG's swamp and from the €3 billion loss in the Caribbean, you are offering a sustainable solution for the Carinthia! That is the hardest thing to refuse! That's what you're doing here! I'll tell you that! Dr. Cap, you're constantly putting the role of Carinthian head of state into play here. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Then agree!]] Dr. Jörg Haider has not acted as the chairman of a party, Dr. Jörg Haider has not acted as a party politician, he has made one He has tried to represent the Carinthians. [[Abg. Heinzl: The Constitution broken!]] There are 100 percent Carinthias, and there is a part of that – that is the minority. I am convinced that head of state Dr. Haider, with best knowledge and conscience, wanted to uphold both the rights of the minority, but of course must also respect the wishes, concerns and needs of the majority population. This is the task of a chief of state. [[Abg. You're a fairy tale prince! That's incredible!]] Mr. Ollinger, now something will tell you: Let's speak honestly. Why did it get to the town panel? – Because Mr. Dr. Vouk deliberately drove through villages too quickly, because a Slovenian minority representative with 80 km/h threatened the lives of children! And all this just to make party-political calculation! That's negative! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] One more time. Here an attempt was made to reach a solution for the Carinthian population. The fact that this solution does not come about may perhaps go down in the party-political debate today. It may also be that the discussion that comes after this item on the agenda, which is concerned with the fact that the National Council is disbanding, is superimposing. But what remains with the population – and this is really a pity – is that Parliament has not succeeded in creating peace, solving a problem that, for 30 years – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has said it quite correctly – has kept this country more or less hostage. We could have solved it. [[Abg. Crist: Then do it!]] It is up to us, on the responsibility of the representatives of the ÖVP, of the BZÖ, of the Greens and of the Social Democracy. We now know that the greens are not on board. The Greens have a Carinthian-enemy attitude. This is also evident in many of their statements; it will probably not change in the future. This may also have to do with the fact that not even a single Carinthian Member is in your ranks. This shows you how “important” Carinthia is. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] But the fact that Social Democracy is a solution for the Carinthian population, a solution together with the head of state Haider, I am already at the end of the sentence, Mr President, in order to win party-political small money for a election that you have already lost, is to be rejected out of the blue! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Come aboard, decide with us this law, we will jointly make a finale in the interest of the Carinthian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6336	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. She too has 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6357	Mr President. Poštovane lady i gospodo! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! One has today taken the word “dictat” into the mouth, namely you, Federal Chancellor. They have said that there should not be a diktat of the minority over the majority. You may not have noticed it, Federal Chancellor, but you have said so in your statements. A minority member like me – but also as a minority spokesperson of the Greens and someone who had a long and long time to do with it – is immediately noticed. I get a gooseea immediately when I hear that someone speaks of Dictat in connection with minority rights when it comes to fulfilling constitutionally guaranteed rights – and that is Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty – depending on whether a majority wants it or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is always the fate of minorities, Federal Chancellor! Minorities are minorities, not because they are less, but because they are less in numbers. There are now only a few tens of thousands of bilingual, namely Slovenian and German-speaking, Carinthia. There were in this region of southern Carinthia, but also in the regions of the Burgenland, which are bilingual areas, times, there were 90 percent bilingual people, 70 percent bilingual people. The home of Norbert Darabos, Croatian Minihof/Mjenovo, today still has a share of 92 percent bilingual population. [[Abg. Scheibner: And up to... no single town panel!]] The inhabitants of Mjenovo/Croatian Minihof are proud that they are bilingual. There were also places in Carinthia some years ago, namely about 30 years ago, in 1971, which were 40 to 50 percent bilingual: About Plescherken/Plešerka, a place where I often drive because I know people there – monolingual and bilingual. There were 43.3% of the population in 1971. However, during the last census in 2001, there was also a share of 14.7% of bilingual population in this small, beautiful South Carinthian town. However, if according to your plans, Mr. Bundeskanzler, Plešerka/Plešerka will never be satisfied with the right that the people have there, in the State Treaty of Vienna. What has been discussed in the last few days, weeks of your presentation, today in a thick initiative proposal only the ÖVP Group has been presented to this House, excludes that Plescherken/Plešerka – where there was a share of almost 50 percent of bilingual people 30 years ago, where in 2001 14.7 percent have become known – can each receive a bilingual village map. They now want to order the provisions – contrary to the State Treaty of Vienna, but above all also against that body, which is the only one that has interpreted the State Treaty of Vienna in the last decades, namely the Constitutional Court, by a two-thirds majority. Mr Bundeskanzler, that is what minority members and those to whom minority protection is important are opposed! And: Minority protection is a task of the majority – and not of the minority! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This understanding must be based on every regulation, namely that minorities will never be able to enforce their claims alone. It depends on the majority, and it depends on protection provisions contained in the Austrian Constitution. Article 7, Vienna's State Treaty, is, so to speak, the Magna Charter of Minority Protection in Austria. In order to implement this Article 7, the minority representatives have fought in recent weeks, years, decades, with physical violence a few years ago, because the counter-violence that has taken place from the other side did not allow anything else. Today it is fought with words, with the attempt to get together, old myths, old strains that exist in this region, to lay down, to get together and to solve that. The policy has only one task: not to question the constitutionally guaranteed framework. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] All that has happened in the last few weeks was to turn off the Constitutional Court in order to limit minority protection. This will never be possible with those who take it seriously with minority protection in this country, because we minority members depend on you – not you on us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6427	The next speaker is the Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Gastinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6448	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me at this point as Minister of Justice, especially as a Carinthian, express my regret at the fact that there will really be no solution to the issue of the local panel in Carinthia – as it looks. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thank you, SPÖ!]] I would also like to say that, under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel, with the involvement of the head of state of Carinthia and all the political parties in Carinthia, the minority representatives, the home services in Carinthia and involving experts over the past five years, there have been numerous and tough negotiations that unfortunately God ends here today with a failure. We from the Federal Government have tried to present here a topography regulation which has already happened to the main committee of the National Council. It has been mentioned several times by my previous speakers that it has also been recognised by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany as the best solution in the last 50 years. I think that's her too. We must not forget one thing: This solution would have brought more of the local panels to Carinthia. At the time when we held this Special Council of Ministers, it looked as if we were actually going to come to this historic solution. It has been said several times, especially by the Green Group in the National Council, that the constitutional solution, as we have sought, which unfortunately threatens to fail God's consent to the SPÖ, is a change to the State Treaty. – I can only call on an expert, and that is for me the former President of the Constitutional Court, Professor Adamovich, whom I personally appreciate. As the Federal Chancellor has already said, he has explicitly stated in a recently published article that this is also the best solution for him. We have also followed this path. Unfortunately, God does not seem to be able to come to a solution here. Of course, it's bad for me. What is the result of the failure? – The result of the failure is that there will be no more local panels in Carinthia except those which are already fixed under the old Topography Regulation. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Why not?]] - Because we need a legal basis! Mrs Stoisits, we need a legal basis. [[Abg. Eder: For a law...!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The haider would have been eh...!]] This Federal Government has presented a legal basis for a re-regulation or re-design of the local panel issue. This legal basis ensures legal certainty. My interest as Minister of Justice and as a member of the Federal Government is in creating legal certainty and a lasting solution for the Carinthian population, both for the minority and for the majority. And that's what we did. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I myself come from Carinthia and have also grown up in the bilingual area. Unfortunately – I have to say – I have not learned Slovenian language; I would have liked to learn it. In any case, it is given the impression in Austria – and it surprises me particularly, even scares me off what Mrs Stoisits said – that in Carinthia there is violence between the minority and the majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] That's not because of the minority. I do not want to give the impression that violence prevails in Carinthia on the issue of the minority, the coexistence between the minority and the majority. That's not the case! Most of the Carinthian population has looked at you here today and at us at the government bank in the National Council to see if we can work out a peaceful and consensus-oriented solution. – That was our goal. I would also like to say that in Carinthia, living together between minority and majority groups is quite peaceful and that the majority of the Carinthian population has expected a solution from us. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ and the ÖVP]] I am therefore deeply sorry that, contrary to the statement of the SPÖ presidents in Carinthia, the Federal SPÖ does not, unfortunately, agree with us so that we can come to this permanent solution. I hope that, during this legislative period, it will succeed – in any way whatsoever – that we can achieve a consensus-oriented solution with the involvement of the minority representatives, of course. I personally have not yet given up this hope. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6562	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. 5 minutes speaking time. I would ask you, if the light stops flashing, to end the speech so that the last speaker has 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6583	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Today should actually be a festival day for the Carinthian minority policy. You can say: Today should be a historic day for Austria and especially for Carinthia, as the National Council should indeed take an important decision for the border regions of Austria – with the focus on Southern Carinthia. However, as it seems, it will probably become a day of mourning, that is, a dark everyday life; great hopes could be destroyed or seem to fail. But I'm still optimistic – and: Hope dies at last! I very much hope that the SPÖ will be responsible for its government and that this people's group regime will give its assent. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I am looking for you! You have a responsibility for Austria. History will later measure the SPÖ to see if, by its approval today, it has helped to end the decades-long local panel conflict – and it will show whether the SPÖ will be responsible for the fact that this dispute is still not resolved and thus the dissatisfying state of the minority rights of the Carinthian Slovenians remains part of political polarization. The members of the Carinthian government also urgently want such a solution. They of the SPÖ would therefore have the historic opportunity today to strengthen the minority rights of the Carinthian Slovenians once and for all and to eliminate any injustices. Please take this historic opportunity! High house! I would like to point out in principle that all relevant persons – the chairman of the Carinthian Home Service Dr. Josef Feldner, the Slovenian representatives Bernard Sadovnik and Marjan Sturm and not least the historian Professor Karner – have agreed on a compromise after long and laborious negotiations: an agreement within the meaning of all interest groups. After 34 years, the population concerned and the mayors responsible for the affected communities have a right to a contractual solution. Although there are emotions on this issue – historically based – that are also understandable, many Carinthians now find this polar discussion more difficult to understand or not acceptable for many years. We don't think we're doing anything about speedy driving and local panel crime either. Last but not least, with regard to the spirit of a united Europe in which there are no political and economic borders, it is not understandable that such emotional boundaries should continue to be maintained. [[Abg. Oillinger: You're right!]] It is therefore particularly gratifying – with this I repeat – that after this long period of discussions and historical work – the time also heals wounds – it was finally possible to reach an agreement with the competent diplomacy of our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the adoption of this agreement on a broad basis will also bring about a new quality in the co-existence of different cultures. At the moment, however, one has the impression that, like a marathon, one wanted to stand a hundred meters ahead of the finish or even turn around. This probably small political collection is no longer reasonable to the population and to the affected groups. High house! I know that the issue of the Carinthian community has been historically affected by strong emotions, as I have already mentioned, so that it has already been a huge achievement by all parties, to bring the different, far-reaching approaches and positions on this issue and the resulting opinions to a denominator and to reach a consensus. I should therefore like to express my particular thanks again to all those involved and in particular to Chancellor Schüssel. The historical opportunity for a lasting solution is now given. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, therefore, take their political responsibility and agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6638	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. You too speak for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6659	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Front: I very much regret that we did not find a solution for the Carinthian local panels. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] The German-speaking Carinthias wanted a solution, the Slovenian-speaking Carinthias wanted a solution – the SPÖ did everything and was willing to agree to a broad consensus. [[Abg. Prince: The Carinthian SPÖ, but not the Federal SPÖ!]] It has been negotiated until late into the night, but without success. Everyone seemed to want a solution – but not all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: Just the Federal SPÖ not!]] The broad compromise, the big solution, has been put in place. Why did that happen? – I think it’s very important to look at that. The Slovenian representatives have negotiated, surrendered, have taken great steps towards the middle. The Carinthian home service with his caretaker has not hidden behind any principles, but has worked for a good association of both groups. It was then possible to work out the so-called Karner paper from the outside under participation and mediation; At the beginning of June it was also presented. The media have spoken of a broad historical consensus and compromise. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Accept!]] But then began the unsightly and unworthy trap, ladies and gentlemen, and the downsizing of the already negotiated basic consensus. In a kind of salami tactics, disks for discs are cut off – and you remove yourself from the negotiated paper again. But because the Slovenian representatives also want a solution, they have given in to a piece, they have given up a piece, but – and I now quote the “standard” – “the bowl compromise had, like so many of the last years, the poison germ of forced consideration for Jörg Haider in itself”. – And that finally brought the whole thing to a failure. You certainly remember this Lord, who is there once, once, once, once, away, who is for bilingual town boards, digs them, digs them again, and then is for them again or perhaps not. Who else can understand this in a country where this is really a sensitive question? Who does not feel planted there, all over Austria? Above all: Who can give faith to the statements of such head of state at all? This is a head of state who constantly changes his mind, a head of state who, even before an agreement, announces before a regulation that he doesn't care how “the outside” – there you are meant to be – how they work in Vienna and whatever “the outside” will decide. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are all excuses!]] This is a country captain who has no handshake quality, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we had to do this experience. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, your task would have been to find a solution. At the last moment, however, you, driven by this head of state, finally fell down and have gone away from their promises. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: (showing towards SPÖ) Those over there have fallen by!]] You can't pull a rope endlessly long, at some point it rips – and that's what happened. The driving of the current head of state of Carinthia had only one goal – and I quote the constitutional lawyer Mayer – that is to say, “to restrict only the state treaty obligations and to remove the Judicatur”. – This is the situation in Austria! There would have been plenty of time in recent years to negotiate this, but the ÖVP has put itself on an old tactic, which, as it probably believes, has proved to be the case for them, namely, pressing through at the last moment. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, please! Five years of negotiations!]] “Speed kills” – you know that! Quickly, fast driving. Negotiating until the last second – and then going over it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic is not a kindergarten where you can play matches as you please. And we don't need any tough regulations either. We need sustainable solutions. And I would like to quote Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel from the outset. You said: “The respect for the implementation of a law must be given”! - I can only agree with you. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Carinthia, from this beautiful country, where more than 30 percent – we have heard this too – learn Slovenian again from the Carinthian folk school in the bilingual area, because the parents have recognized that this is an advantage for their children. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] And I'm from a country...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6803	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6818	I come from a country where cultural cooperation works wonderfully, where the two ethnic groups have created wonderful cultural diversity. And...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6848	We have to stick to the speaking time! [[In the case of the SPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. May. Muttons.]] The next speaker is Mr Fauland. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6881	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs JustiMinister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your failed attempt to get the head of state of Carinthia back to the centre of attention is extremely unfortunate for you, because you no longer get the “Kainsmal” away – the Cainsmal for passing over a group of people in a way – also medial! – which seeks to avoid simply accepting a consensus, out of purely party-political tactics, and above all now to raise the claim that you would have made it better. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] For 30 years, you from the SPÖ have appointed the Federal Chancellor in this Republic. They had 30 years to get in there, but they didn't do it! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ as well as the Abg. May. Molterer.]] This federal government has now succeeded in putting a lasting solution on the table – a lasting solution, where we have hoped for a very long time that the necessary consensus can also be reached in this House. But we were taught against a better knowledge of a better person, because this destructive force, which social democracy is currently showing, is looking for the same. [[Abg. Oillinger: “Better Knowledge ”? - Oh, God! Now he doesn't know what he's talking at all!]] However, I would now like to move a little away from Carinthia and the social democracy policy of the people. According to the State Treaty, we also have obligations regarding the Burgenland, and it must be said that the first bilingual town map was not established until 2000 and also under this Federal Government. I looked at how social-democratic country politicians consider the problem in the Burgenland. Walter Prior, the current mayor of Burgenland, who was president of SPÖ-Mandatare from Croatian and mixed-lingual communities in Burgenland from 1988 to 2003, spoke on this subject of the often. I am now quoting from a protocol of the Advisory Council for the Croatian People's Group in 1993. Although Mr Prior was present at this meeting, Mr Darabos was, of interest, apologised, as was the case at a meeting in 1995. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's always apologized!]] Always apologised. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please say something substance!]] This protocol clearly states the opinion of a SPÖ group of countries. I quote: "The population in the communities concerned should not be excluded from the decision and should not lead to a situation like that in Carinthia at the time. Furthermore, the situation is not the same in all the municipalities concerned." However, remembering the statements on the popular survey in Carinthia, it is noted that this is a contradiction. I'm leaving for a few years now and I'm coming to 1995. At the time, Walter Prior – Darabos was again apologised at this meeting – said quite clearly that there would be no solution to this problem without involving the population in the Burgenland. In 1998, there was also a similar statement on the part of social democracy, according to the protocol. I quote: “Abg. Prior refers to the unanimous decision at the meeting on 18 February. On 1 November 1993 he agreed to carry out topographical inscriptions, which he had only agreed at the time on the condition that an entire population survey would be carried out.’ You see, ladies and gentlemen, that social democracy once and for all considers this situation this way. That's something we're used to now. I'm sorry. I find this unfortunate and also unfair to all those forces that have come together in this Causa to work really constructively on a solution – a solution that we are now scratching by with hair width. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ]] But this is not due to the policy of the head of the Carinthian state and certainly not because of the efforts of all those who see a positive conclusion here, but it is so on the grounds that, from the speech of Mr Cap, one has heard this out or his statements can be interpreted in this way – a almost semisense behavior of social democracy, whose representatives have motivated themselves here at the speaker's desk, so that one cannot talk to a social democratic party in this way. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion, I would like to say: [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you!]] I think it's a pity, it's really a shame to have the wrong chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e6985	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7006	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on the issue of local panel conflict in Carinthia, I would like to summarize what it is all about. It is about the protection of minorities in the present and future. It is not a question of drawing a conclusion, as some of you would like to say, that there will be no new bilingual town boards in the future. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No one said that!]] This final debate is not appropriate here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also about the fact that German Chancellor Schüssel with this government is still in hostagery of Kärntner's head of state Haider. [[Abg. Scheibner: What kind of hostage are you in?]] That is to say, all those who still believe that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has succeeded in minimizing the influence of Mr. Haider in this government and in making it small in Austria. That's what all these people said! Then: Who does not comply with the Austrian Constitution and Article 7 of the State Treaty? [[Abg. Scheibner: The quick driver Vouk! That's your husband!]] Who is not able to implement a constitutional court's knowledge of one thing, but is crazy about the town boards so that everything starts from the front? Who is this? – Mr. Haider, your coalition partner! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you have your own opinion as well?]] That is why we need to discuss this at all today. It would be quite easy: Mr Bundeskanzler, you could go here, adopt a regulation, and simply ensure that bilingual local boards are set up in Carinthia. It'd be easy. Now to propose to us to make a motion for a resolution here, which will ensure that the implementation will take place, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is Chuzpe! That is not democracy, as we imagine it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As criticism of Mr Rudi Vouk, who has put the stone in place, is constantly being used, so that there can be proposals that have been made too quickly through the village, I should like to remind you, Mr Scheibner, who made this proposal to Mr Vouk a few years ago. [[Abg. Scheibner: A quick drive through a local area is a threat to people! Political agitation!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't!]] No, it wasn't you. It was Mr. Khol's National Council President in the bilingual meeting centre Tainach/Tinje in southern Carinthia. There was a discussion about why everything is staggering and nothing goes on at all. Mr. National Council President Khol of the ÖVP Government Party has proposed to the Carinthian Slovenians that speed limits should finally mark the local territory and that this would be a way of re-establishing all of this here. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is nevertheless an impossible process!]] So don't get upset with us, but at your National Council President Khol! [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm excited about you too!]] Don't criticize Mr. Vouk who did the right thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Her proposal, which now came to suspend the control of the Constitutional Court by a constitutional provision, is not only, as the constitutional lawyer Heinz Mayer correctly says, “historically pitiful”, but it is also pitiful in Europe. What are you afraid of in a united Europe? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In front of you!]] Slovenia has been a member of the European Union for more than two years. We could be pleased that there are areas in Austria where people from child learn from two languages and don't have to learn them later. It would be nice if this were also visible on local panels. It would be good if the people who live there would notice that this is also recognised that they do not have to fear using their linguistic wealth that is not said: Speak German and not Slovenian! It's about this wealth! In order to give you once again the opportunity to adopt a law here or to agree to a motion for a resolution that addresses what we always wanted: a simple law, not a constitutional provision, I now submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, especially of the ÖVP, Mr Bundeskanzler: Free You're from Jörg Haider's hostage! – Hvala lepa, srecno!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7206	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lunacek by Mrs Mag. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues on the implementation of the local knowledge of the Constitutional Court is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7294	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat and the club workers to leave the voting area. First of all, we have to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on the draft law in 849/A concerning a federal law amending the People's Group Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the rejection of this request to be a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The vote on Amendment No 849/A by Mrs Scheibner and others will be taken. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 848/A) by Mr Magnette. Molterer, colleagues and others included draft legislation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the honourable Members, Mr Mag. Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an overall amendment. As the draft laws contained in the amendments as a whole and in Amendment 848/A contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put them in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an overall amendment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion by Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, to give an indication of this. – The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 848/A) by Mr Magnette. Mr Molterer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law as a whole contains the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – The present draft law was also not adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure at second reading. There is no need for the implementation of a third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the local knowledge of the Constitutional Court. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not also find the necessary majority. He's rejected. [[11:03:37]] 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 856/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Josef Cap, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXII. The legislative period of the National Council ended prematurely (1632 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7405	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7432	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, good for your birthday today! Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! At the urgent request of the opposition – we would have liked to continue the successful work until the end of this legislative period – there has been a four-party consensus that provides for an early termination of this legislative period. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The people in Austria, the voters, once again have the opportunity to decide, and it is therefore also our duty, of course, to speak and answer the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is better there today! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This country has won over the last six years, this country has come forward, the reputation of Austria has grown in the world. We are, and this is what people know, one of the safest countries in the world. Many of us come to other regions of this earth and repeatedly note that Austria meets the safety requirements of the Austrians in the best possible way. Austria is one of the richest countries on earth. Austria is one of the most prosperous countries in the European Union. This our country has a quality of life that many envy us. This highest quality of life is also the reason for so many people from all over the world coming to Austria to make a holiday here. I have already said that the reputation of our home country in the world – thanks to the work of this Federal Government! – has grown massively in recent years and increased. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We are proud to be able to work for this country together with the people in this country. Today we will surely hear from representatives of the opposition parties how they sicken Austria, as they badden Austria. You know what I don't understand? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] – I just don’t understand that you’re not proud of this country. Be proud of the achievements that are being done in this country together! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm a red-and-white red-rotter through and through if you want to. Go out and say, Yes, this country of Austria is one of the most beautiful countries on earth! We are proud of our homeland, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] You can't fall a stone out of the crown, if you say, as an opposition politician: Yes, we are proud of this Austria, which is better in place! [[Abg. Bures: But not to the government!]] This Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has become more secure, modern and human in the last six years – thanks to the work, among other things, to the Austrian Federal Government with Wolfgang Schüssel at the top! Safe, human and modern! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] You will now rightly ask the question: How's that? Is it really the merit of the Federal Government? I'll tell you: It is primarily a merit of the Austrians that this country stands so well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But, of course, it is also a merit of the Federal Government that this success path has been pursued. I would just like to point out two examples of countries in Europe over the last six years, which have two different, namely completely different governments. In the last seven years there has been a red-green government in the Federal Republic of Germany. What's the success? – It was the seven poorest years for the Federal Republic of Germany, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And over the past six years, this Austria has had a bourgeois government, a government strongly located in the middle, and it has been good years for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Poor years for Germany – good years for Austria! – The comparison makes us sure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The government of Schüssel – one and two –, ladies and gentlemen, went and addressed the problems that exist, openly and honestly. We have had the courage to attack hot iron, too. One of these principles of this federal government is looking and not looking away, ladies and gentlemen, even if they are difficult questions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This Federal Government, together with Wolfgang Schüssel, has designed at the top – and not managed! We have undertaken to change this Austria in a positive way. Our principle does not mean: Sawing and hesitating! – Alfred Gusenbauer may stand for this – but our principle is: Act for the country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, also has in stormy times – and it has existed; some in this House share responsibility for these stormy times – which are kept in line – not zigzag à la Gusi, because it is very essential in politics and for the country. Clear targets for Austria: To make Austria economically viable, to develop Austria socially, to realize social justice and to ensure ecological compatibility in our actions. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You're choking people!]] Performance, social responsibility and environmental tolerance – the balance of keeping the balance between these objectives, which is the task of politics, ladies and gentlemen! This clear objective has also given us these guidelines for the success that this Federal Government can ultimately show for Austria. Once again, a very essential positioning takes place from the first second: Like the family, like a company, of course, a state cannot spend more than it takes in the long term. This debt of the SPÖ belongs to the past. SPÖ, Austrian Debt Party! – This federal government has rehabilitated the budgets, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It is a question of the house mind, the economic house mind, that you can't spend more than you take in the long term. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why do you constantly have deficits?]] The second principle, Mr Matznetter – and I understand your preliminary call, you clearly know what I want to say now – is to successfully implement the second principle of this federal government: to relieve citizens and the economy of tax and tax burden, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Today we have a tax rate which is significantly lower, which is just over 40 percent, than in the years before under socialist responsibility. [[Abg. Sburny:... education system!]] But it is more about, Mrs Sburny, and it is also interesting that at this point your call will always come, just as the call of colleague Matznetter, the red-green call for call, the red-green call for interference. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes because you don't understand what...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Matznetter says that a high tax rate is the benchmark for the degree of civilisation of a society. The result, Mr Matznetter, would be: 100 percent stress – the highest level of civilisation. No, thank you, I can only say in this regard. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We trust the citizen more, and therefore we give the citizen more freedom and more financial opportunities. That is why we will continue this discharge policy, ladies and gentlemen. We have made the trend change on the labour market. We have record employment with over 3.3 million people who find work in Austria – the most important thing that a person needs to do in order to fulfill his or her economic basis of life. We have invested more in labour market policy, in active labour market policies than any government before us. We have set up completely new initiatives on the labour market; I am thinking of the Blum bonus, i.e. the additional initiatives for apprentices, for young people. You know what's happening? – The SPÖ rejects the Blum premium at the beginning when it was introduced, and now that it sees the success, it suddenly insists that this flower premium will be extended. So you see: That is right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The measures of active economic policy are equally correct. Active labour market policy and active economic policy, these are the formulas of success also for more employment and for declining unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The sinking?]] Mr Matznetter, what you said yesterday was interesting. In the course of the economic debate – and I rarely say “economic policy” to you – you have repeatedly raised the question of the groups. That's where I think: Do you have two categories? I tell you, every company that gives work to Austrians is equally valuable to me; no matter whether big or small! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It can't be that the company is good if it belongs to ÖIAG, and then if it belongs to private companies, it's suddenly the bad group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, this is pure left ideology. They confirmed that: The SPÖ cannot operate because market plus Marx Murks is, ladies and gentlemen! That is the truth, you simply cannot understand the economy and therefore do not operate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We have taken a really essential new step in the care of old age with the three-pillar model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You've talked about it for decades – but we've done it! We have strengthened and harmonised the first pillar, and we have introduced a strong second and a strong third pillar of pension provision. The redundancies, Mr Van der Bellen, now already have 1.8 million employees. And do you know how many people are already taking care of the future? – 750 000 Austrians! The concept is absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Our policy for older people, for example, is just as correct. Again for comparison: Red-Green in Germany reduces pensions – this Federal Government in Austria increases pensions especially for the small pensioners, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You've cut the most!]] We have set milestones in family policy. You rejected the child's money. We have introduced parental leave – you have rejected it. We have achieved massive improvements in the security field. The successes are visible. Crime is falling, security is increasing, ladies and gentlemen. How did you behave under the Security Police Act? – They were against it, just as the Greens, for example, have been against the entire package of asylum and xenophobia rights. It was true, however, that we have put in place these measures: The number of asylum seekers is falling. This is a positive report, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not fair for Austria to bear all the burdens. We are of course an asylum country, but fair burden distribution must be our principle. Allow me to address two more important, perhaps not so forward-looking issues. This federal government has not only implemented the reconciliation and restitution funds before history, but has implemented them. And, ladies and gentlemen, this has been a special social policy concern for us, we have realized the hospice as a conscious response to inhuman tendencies in other European countries. We do not want this, ladies and gentlemen, we want a human society! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has happened in these past years, in this so successful legislative period. Fritz Neugebauer therefore did not speak unjustly of the “year of the rich harvest. ” This agreement, which these two parties have set themselves as the basis of work and as a goal, is fulfilled. But, of course, important tasks are ahead of us for the future. For example, the question for Austria is very essential: How does Austria position itself in European integration policy and in the European Union? We will not allow European policy to be sacrificed to the populist, no matter which side, Mr Gusenbauer. Think about whether the SPÖ really does well to be so close to Europe's policy! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the new legislative period, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to make a new constitution for Austria, a new constitution, which is crucial: Does centralism or federalism prevail? Will the state or the citizen be strengthened? - Those are the questions. We need clear rules for immigration and integration. And I can tell you openly that this is one of the great challenges that we can only deal with positively if we also have the courage to the truth. Integration works when people can speak German and accept Austrian law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Of course, in the coming years there will also be a big question in front of us, I would call it one of the great social tasks, the great social tasks: getting older in dignity. This is an important question where I think that civil society, civil society, is important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] ==References== October, ladies and gentlemen, the decision is as follows: Who can manage and who can't? – That’s the decision-making question. You have proven at BAWAG, at the “consumer” – I could count a lot more – you can’t manage. The second question is: Who can keep line? – We have proven that we can keep line, you're called zigzag. And the third question will be: Who can lead a country and who can't? – Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, who cannot even lead his own party, has not proved the ability to lead a country to be real! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But the crucial task of politics behind it: What way does the country go? – We want to secure this success path for Austria through a strong bourgeois centre, through a policy of the Austrian People’s Party, and we will do everything we can to keep a red-green turn of the left, a turn of risk from Austria away, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Our course is clear: The course of the Austrian People's Party is: To create work, to give security and to act socially. That's our course! [[Abg. Olympians: Yes, that definitely!]] We also have a tax collector. Ladies and gentlemen! The country is in good hands with German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel – and we want it to stay that way!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7767	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Gusenbauer. Also 18 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e7790	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! Those who have now heard the statements of Mr. Klubobmann's Molterer know that in a single discipline he is a real expert: He manages to tear down these too, where bridges still exist. And that doesn't take Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It must be said clearly and clearly: One can be of different opinion on the policy of a federal government, but one thing is clear: Although the large majority of the Austrian population is not proud of the German government, it is not proud of the ÖVP, but proud of Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh yes!]] And we will not let this be banned by you, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question is not: Austria yes or no? Whoever formulates or underlies this question, Mr Molterer, in which the question arises: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] What is he thinking about? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In times of sanctions, this question has been asked!]] It is primarily about how the Austrians are concerned, what opportunities and opportunities they have and how to make things better in Austria. That is the question that must be raised in politics! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] If you, Mr Molterer, in your speech today pretend to be a palette for all in Austria, I must ask you: Are you not ashamed when you think of the one million people who are at acute risk of poverty in Austria? Are you not ashamed when you think of the 460,000 people living in acute poverty? Are you not ashamed when you think of the nearly 400,000 people who are unemployed this winter? – And you make yourself here and pretend to be all right for everyone in Austria. Shame, Mr. Molterer. People in Austria have not deserved this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is good that in today's debate the differences are worked out, because this provides a basis for people's decision-making. As Mr Molterer referred to the labour market: It is simply that the current Federal Government is unfortunately the government of record unemployment and the government of the highest youth unemployment in the history of our country. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] And this is not a success, but sad for the people affected in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And if you say you spend so much on active labour market policy, you have to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] If unemployment is high, it is also necessary! Austria loses €7 billion each year alone through this high level of unemployment, but the point is what the money is used for. Every day I receive emails from people who say they are required to go in short-term courses – a construction worker with 60 years of age who is now sent to study English, so that he may have an opportunity to work on a job; a balance sheet accountant who is now sent into a accounting course. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vienna fails!]] Such things take place, ladies and gentlemen, but for this the money of the Austrians is too bad, because we really want to continue education and further education and not beautiful statistics before the National Council elections. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As regards apprenticeship policy: It has been shown that although the Blum premium has been very strongly observed, it has not created additional apprenticeships, but has led to a better subsidisation of existing apprenticeships. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And the money that was made available for three years is only enough for a year and a half. [[Abg. Prince: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This path does not lead to the goal! Therefore, with regard to labour market policy, it is perfectly clear: They represent the apprenticeship crisis, youth unemployment, record unemployment and the beauty of statistics. We stand for an apprenticeship fund, for training guarantee, for real education and training and for active employment policy – and this is better for Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Just keywords!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are discussing tax and distribution policy, and this is important, I remember what former President-in-Office of the Council Franz Fierce said here from this government bank on tax reform. He said: The tax reform is a compensation for the cold progression of one and a half years for the taxpayers. – To be read in Parliament's stenographic protocol. An independent witness. This does not mean any compensation for the burden policy of the last six years. That is why the average earners in Austria have the impression that although the economy is doing quite well, they have nothing of it themselves and that their tax burden has actually increased. The question is: Who benefited? 800 companies in Austria are the main beneficiaries of your tax reform. The vast majority of the population has had nothing of it. And this is not fair, because we want everyone in Austria to share in the economic upturn and not just a few, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Investing in Austria is good, and if you want to have an investment in Austria, you have to support the companies investing in Austria. However, with your tax policy, you have primarily supported those companies that invest abroad, but I have nothing to do with it. But why don't I use the Austrian tax money to support those who invest in Austria? [[Abg. Grill: That's not true!]] The difference is quite clear: Support with your tax policy They are few large companies, the companies that invest abroad, and form a tax haven in Austria. [[Abg. Grill: Completely wrong!]] We want to relieve the average wage earners, support small and medium-sized enterprises and the companies investing in Austria. [[Abg. Grill: That's not what you want!]] This creates jobs for the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A core challenge and a key challenge for Austria today and in the future is the educational status of our people, because that decides how competitive we will be in the future, how many people in Austria have the best possible training and the best possible qualification. – That decides more than anything else about what opportunities each individual and every individual has and how rich or poor our country will be. Especially in this area, especially in education policy, the biggest failure of this federal government is noted. It is not acceptable for one of the richest countries in the world to be on 20. A place in the educational comparison! It's got to ring all the alarm bells! And because of your ideological despondency, you are building up the opportunities for children in our country, which is really unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They would have had all the possibilities of a reform of education. [[Abg. Großruck: You have the biggest scandal in the Second Republic to answer!]] We have eliminated the two-thirds majority so that any government in education policy can do what it thinks is right. - But no! You didn't move! It is quite clear that the ÖVP stands in the education policy for the reduction of education, for larger classes, for fewer teachers, since the latest, Mrs Brinek, also for ghetto classes, as we know, and this ÖVP stands for fewer opportunities for the children. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You don't believe this anymore!]] We stand for small classes that have a maximum of 25 students, we are for individual gift promotion, for the optional whole day school. And this offers more opportunities for the children in Austria, because Austria has earned itself better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kainz: All day schools?- Oh, my God!]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Yes, in school policy it is clear: The ÖVP stands for the separator, the SPÖ for the common; the ÖVP stands for Gehrer, and the SPÖ stands for teachers! – This is the true difference, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grill: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One of the main concerns of the Austrian population is the future of health care. 62 percent of people are concerned about whether the level of our health care can be maintained in the future and whether all modern medicine is available to all people in our country. And for years – for years! – a health reform is promised to ensure universal public care at a high level. But let us remember: What did this government require? – It did not require a reform, but a further bureaucracy of the health system, it has expanded its self-retaining, it has taken further steps towards two-class medicine and it can no longer ensure the supply in all parts of the country, as is said in the first place by doctors in our country again and again. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who introduced it? - The SPÖ!]] I'm just pointing out the last statements of some of the world's call physicians: For example, the well-known cancer specialist Dr. Robert Hawkiek said: The situation is a disaster. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Especially in Vienna this is so, yes!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: It's not better in Innsbruck either!]] The President of the Medical Chamber says: It is powerful at all corners and ends in the health system. The head of the AKH says: Now we're at the limit. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The municipality of Vienna is responsible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every one of us, who comes together with the doctors, the established doctors and the hospitals somewhere in Austria – and I in my constituency – knows that, if nothing happens, our health system is facing a collapse. [[Abg. Neudeck: That draws with you, that is not to believe!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, that's no reason to have fun! [[Call the ÖVP: Have fun!]] This is about the health of the Austrian population! That is why the direction decision is also so important: between an ÖVP that goes strictly towards two-class medicine, more bureaucracy and more self-retain, or the SPÖ, which stands for security of supply, for high medical care and for solidarity funding, because that is what people in our country, ladies and gentlemen, want! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, dealing with human health and, above all, with the older generation [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: A real horror story!]] I thought that if today my mother and her friends, who are all around 70 years old, sit at home in front of the TV and hear Mr. Molterer's speech, what will they think when he speaks of pension increases, while the last few years have been marked by the most radical pension reductions that have ever occurred in the history of our country! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That you do not generate in view of the fact that every pensioner who has a pension of €700 had a purchasing power loss of around €50 per month in recent years, making her life much more difficult! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a way of dealing with the generation that our Austria has built up! You do not have the right to humble people in this way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, Austria deserves better: Austria has earned a fair pension policy, and it does not begin with your pension cuts, with the pension inequalities and the pension uncertainties that you create! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic]] No, it has to be secured the purchasing power of the pensions! 45 years of work are indeed enough for a decent pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we want to have the same and fair pensions for women in our country, because they deserved it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer spoke about the fact that the government is not looking away but taking action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] . I would like to point out a model example of your ‘packaging policy’. In recent years, despite existing problems with integration in our country, the Federal Government has made a policy that has led to illegal immigration to Austria being increased by the seasonal regimes and by the Scheinsel employees, that for many years this problem has been looked away and that the measures that have been put in place do not go towards integration, because the legal measures you have put in place are supposed to prevent integration! And now the problem is again quite large – quite large when you go to school again, quite large when you look at the disorder on the labour market. [[Abg. Neudeck: Haven't you set the clock, or is that so fad?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is neither reasonable for the population based in Austria or for those who come to us to make legal provisions that make integration difficult and promote illegality. In reality, a government must do all it can to ensure that there is no wage pressure on the labour market, that illegal immigration is stopped, and we must use all the strength to ensure that there is a reasonable integration so that the people who come to Austria have a fair chance of training and living. [[Abg. Großruck: You can give the speech in Moscow!]] – That would have been your job in the last six years and not the polemics of the ÖVP in recent weeks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I still miss the BAWAG, the penthouses!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Elsner is still missing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you carefully analyse Mr Molterer's speech, he meant that this government was in the middle. – To do this, you can only say one thing: As far to the right as the ÖVP, which has delivered a small war on the right side with the BZÖ and the FPÖ in the integration debate, Mr. Molterer, you are away from the middle of the mile! [[Abg. Prince: You are on the left!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: And you of success!]] In the middle, in the center of Austrian society, are those people, the average Austrians, who work hard every day, those who want a job, those who are interested in their children having a good education, so that they can also have opportunities in the future, those who believe in an Austria of the future, where it goes back. And precisely these people are miles away from you, because your policy has not supported people in our country but has been hindered in their efforts. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you don't even choose them!]] Therefore, the very best one can do for Austria is on 1st. October to choose a government that supports the people in their efforts and no further hinders how you have done it! [[Abg. Murauer: So ÖVP!]] The alternative SPÖ is completely clear. Austria has earned itself better than the current government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8359	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Also for you 18 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e8380	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! I wouldn't have expected such a show applause from the SPÖ. Mr Gusenbauer, you are right: Austria has earned itself better, especially something better than such election speeches that we have heard from you today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] That's why it's good that we're with 1. In October, we decided on an early election so that we could save the country a permanent campaign, an uncertainty, a polarization, as you have now suggested. [[Abg. Heinzl: To the Scheibner his farewell speech!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We must ensure that we quickly return to a new National Council and a new government that works for Austria and not just paroles. Mr Gusenbauer, if you say that bridges do not break down. – Who was it, then, who broke down the bridges in 2000, the bridges of a consensus, that Austria, the population for themselves, decides how this country is governed? Only the population in democratic elections has the decision to make on governments. [[Abg. Großruck: Launched with champagne!]] You saw it differently at the time, you were so shocked that the Austrians dared to give another majority here a chance to rule Austria. [[Abg. Broukal: You don't believe that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Don't make it that way! They were at the time responsible for a climate of demonstrations, the violent demonstrations! [[Abg. Broukal: I'm not at all!]] You and your partygoers have pilgrimaged to Brussels, to Paris and to London to fight against this new government! [[Abg. Broukal: me? Me?]] [[Lively condolences with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You should also be reminded of this today, Mr President. Yes, but your party chairman has turned the champagne glass on the sanctions because your party may not even be in the government. [[Abg. Broukal: Not me!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Broukal]] [[Abg. Broukal: When has this government been elected!]] You didn't care about the interests of the country. I tell you, we did not find it easy at the time, especially when we heard how the situation in Austria really is, how high the debt you had to answer is really how big the reform stand you left behind is. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's a tragic speech you're holding!]] We've been thinking about this very carefully. With many of us liberals, the urge or temptation was great to say that they should continue to bathe out this heap. There have been questions of opinion where we have already been the number one in the votes. We said: No, in the interests of the country we must not allow this to happen, we must not allow the continuation of a coalition which only manages itself, which does not take up reforms, which have to account for record unemployment, which has to account for record deficits, which increases taxes, increases taxes, but does nothing for people! – And that was the reason why in 2000 we agreed to go another way together with the Austrian People's Party, where we said no... – Yes, you have seen that thank God you have seen it. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We've seen that!]] If you had also taken the consequences and implemented these important reforms together with us, it would have been better for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We agreed on this turn, that was important to us. And at the beginning it was difficult to deal with the record deficit, to reduce debt. You have to be aware of this: Still 7,5 billion € per year – 7,5 billion € per year! – more than 100 billion schilling after old currency, the Austrians today pay only for the interest due to the debt you have incurred in 30 years of socialist-led governments. [[Abg. Eder: Now we have more debt!]] 7,5 billion €! What could we add to people if we didn't have to deal with this debt service that you caused? Do not come to us with your economic policy and your social policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] The pension system was at the border of finance, the health system. [[Abg. Riepl: Not at all!]] – ‘Not true!’, that is the only thing you have to say here in this debate. Great! More about your party’s declaration of bankruptcy can no longer be brought here as “Gar not true”! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Party – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] It's a close, don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't talk. Please stay with me, Mr Cot and your group. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Stay with the truth!]] This is the speechlessness of social democracy, which has been hard to speak of in the last few words by the old mayor Zilk, saying: With this party, as it now stands after BAWAG-ÖGB scandal and leadershiplessness, 150 years of important history of social democracy for the workers' movement are actually being turned into the opposite. [[Abg. Broukal: Where are you? At 3 percent!]] That's the reality you shouldn't explore. [[Abg. Broukal: And you stand at 3%!]] They should not say “Dear not! ” but recognize reality and perhaps once Keeping a comeback and perhaps also considering that the things we put on here are not quite wrong, but you should take responsibility for the country. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is this your last speech here in the House today?]] But this is perhaps too much required, we have seen it in the last debate around the town boards. Just polarize, just be against it. Mr Gusenbauer, this will not be my last speech here in the House, but perhaps it was your last speech as the SPÖ party chairperson if the elections are bad for you. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We've done a lot: We have eliminated the deficit, rehabilitated the budget, we have then returned the population to the rehabilitating dividends by the greatest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic. Mr Gusenbauer, I would also like to ask you how you feel about it, especially in the elderly. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What are you doing from autumn?]] If you bring here examples where 70-year-olds sit in front of the TV screen and fear the policy of this government – yes, you confirm it now – then I must say that is really unscrupulous, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ask her!]] You did it back then. For months we have discussed a pension harmonisation, a pension reform for the future, because we know that this pension system is non-financing in the long term – for the future, for the younger generation to take care that the young people also receive a pension. [[Abg. Riepl: Pension reduction!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals – BZÖ.]] At the time, they pretended that the pensioners were affected by this pension reform. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Are they too!]] That's the ugly thing we're blaming you. But you did not say that it was you who cut the pensions in the nineties. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Every year pension reduction!]] Two, three years without any pension increase, you have hired our pensioner. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: nonsense!]] You have even taken the money away from the poorest, because you have cut the pocket money by half to the residents of old-age homes! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, that's it!]] That was your non-social policy, ladies and gentlemen. And you think ten years later you don't know that anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 500 s reduces pocket money!]] We remember, Mr Gusenbauer, that was your concept of pension policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Our concept was that of course we increase pensions, at least at the rate of inflation. And because of the measures our Social Minister has taken, average pensions between 2001 and 2004 have increased by 8 per cent for men and 21 per cent for women – with your pensioners, Mr. Gusenbauer, who are insecure to you by 21 per cent! . because we have increased the billing times for child rearing, because we have taken accompanying measures to finally allow women fair pensions. [[Abg. Neudeck: Please!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Don't talk such nonsense!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] This has been the policy of this government. [[Abg. Broukal: My father knows nothing about this on his pension note! Nothing, Mr. Schneibner.]] They were against it everywhere. They were against the childcare allowance, which is a real measure to get the families out of the poverty trap you have lured them into, ladies and gentlemen, the childcare allowance, the increase in family allowances, the improvement of the billing of child rearing times for the pension. These are direction-setting measures, because we want to strengthen the families and not weaken them as you always wanted. We want to give families the opportunity to take care of their children and take responsibility so as not to be forced to put them in any children's cribs, so that they can be influenced from the very beginning, just as your ideological conception has been over many years. I'm telling you, there's a lot more to be said about success, but we don't want to protest here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, just like you always did. The future is especially important to me. And there are still many questions to address and open. I say quite frankly to you: I would expect to go into the discussion with you too, Mr Gusenbauer, how we could really put the health system on new feet. [[Abg. Broukal: You can do this]] This is where you have brought your concept: increasing contributions, setting up the maximum contribution base, i.e. withdrawing more money from people's pockets so that a system of the past can be further financed. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't?]] This is the concept of SPÖ. Our concept – and the first steps we have already taken in this legislative period, Mr. Gusenbauer – is not to finance the health system, but to preserve health, to invest in the maintenance of health, to avoid being sick and thus to save many billions of euros in resources for the health system. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Two-Class Medicine is your concept!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Two-Class Medicine!]] These would be the interesting alternatives to your waster-humanity, which you always have in these areas. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] In the same way, in the Asylum Act, in the foreign law. Now you come at once and say, well, you have to take care of orderly conditions now. It was your policy of multicultural society in the 1980s and 1990s, which has caused much of what we are discussing now. One has openly advertised for immigration to Austria without taking those measures that would have been necessary to really integrate those coming to us. They have had it to answer that over many years we have had an asylum law that has opened to abuse door and gate. We've taken a different path. We said asylum, yes, for everyone and only for everyone who needs it. We wanted to stop the abuse. Mr Gusenbauer, you have also voted against it. And we are proud to have 40 percent fewer asylum applications, but an increased recognition rate. That is to say, those who are really persecuted come to their right faster, and others who have only other reasons here and who are illegally brought to Austria by tractor gangs do not get to our borders at all. A real success model of this federal government in an important and sensitive matter. – And you voted against it. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to talk to you about how, for example, the Constitutional Convention continues to make the state more modern. But there you have also discussed for months, but then, as usual, for party-political reasons, for party-political reasons, you have not been able to give a success to a federal government that is opposed. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] That's your state-political understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do it!]] Why do we not discuss this together, Mr Gusenbauer? Which means: Do it!Unknown term type: I do not know what is going on in this group. Is your depression really so big that you just say more: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No, why! Do it!]] Do it! or: That's not true! when you're trying to have an objective dialogue with you? This is apparently no longer possible with you. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I heard better farewell speeches in here!]] They are so ensnared in the search of BAWAG foundations and maximum contribution bases at the trade union, penthouses and apartments, which are financed accordingly, that you can no longer think anything else at all and can no longer engage in any practical dialogue. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Pension by Mr. Elsner!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Haven't there been any better farewell speeches?]] Mr Gusenbauer! I wanted to ask you: Are you willing to ensure for the future, for example, a modern division of competence between the federal government and countries, as you have said in Sunday's speeches again and again, where you really consider: It makes sense in an Austria of 21st century. century, a small country, nine different construction regulations, nine hunting and fishing laws, nine different fire protection requirements, nine times a different law on youth protection and, and, what? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Say that...! Here we are the wrong address! Why don't you tell the ÖVP?]] Wouldn't it be better to think in alternatives and say: Yes, competence for the legislation of the federal government, enforcement of the country, a serious federal council sent by parliamentarians who really also guarantee an active participation of the countries in the federal legislation, which reduces land days, like the National Council, perhaps to 100 or 140 mandates that also exercise a genuine control competence in the countries? Very difficult to implement, I know. It is interesting, however, to think of such new approaches, Mr Gusenbauer, instead of just threshing election slogans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Or you might consider: What about this European Union? Is it good that we continue to be organized by bureaucrats, where we try to get from one crisis to another, instead of really thinking about how this Europe can work better in the future? Would it not be better to create a core Europe of countries that really want to participate fully in this European integration, and therefore to set up countries with varying degrees of integration, which are involved in different modules, and thus to ensure the successful development of this united and peaceful Europe? We don't find anything about it either, but you're coming back to an anti-EU campaign now because you think you can create moods here, too, without saying how you could do it better. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's hard to talk for 18 minutes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: 18 minutes can be long!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is the text already out?]] Or do we discuss what justice minister Gastinger said: How can we reform this completely acceding marriage and divorce right, which dates from the 19th century? From the 1930 ’ s and the 1930 ’ s, which no longer corresponds to the circumstances of today! The family with a marriage certificate, where there are one or two children. These are the challenges of the future, which we do not hear from you, where we are the only ones who bring in truly modern approaches to the future. We have not yet been able to implement this in this legislative period, but this will also be part of our work programme for the next working period, but – and I am sure – not with you, because you are talking about it, but are opposed to it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is that then extraparliamentary opposition?]] But we will certainly be able to reach agreement here in other cooperations. It will also be important for us to further improve the safety standards in Austria, both inside and outside. Here, too, a clear confession: It does not help us further if you and other small parties here in Austria say populistly, everything that happens around us outside does not interest us, this does not affect us here in Austria, although we know very well that every crisis in Europe and around Europe also has an elementary influence on our security interests. That is why we have full security standards in Austria, but also a yes to the full participation of Austria in a common European security and defence component, ladies and gentlemen. Solidarity for us, but solidarity also for the other democratic states in Europe. This should also be a credo of the future in security policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is still a lot to be said about this: the new generation agreement, the question of fundamental rights also in the Constitutional Convention. – You only have stupid calls because you know I'm right. – And I'm sorry that you won't be able to do all this with me. You have a urge: to return to the sleeping car policy as far as possible, where you split up the posts, where the party book was primarily important and the politics for people was completely irrelevant. [[Abg. Broukal: Here we can learn from you, Mr Scheibner! This insolence never brought the SPÖ to light!]] That was the big coalition until the year 2000. I'm telling you, the population will be on 1st. October has the decision to make whether one wants to return to a left party in a federal government, no matter what it looks like, or whether one wants to continue a bourgeois coalition, not from a single party, but from two different parties, which however unites one: that one is willing to assume responsibility for Austria and also to lead our society in new, modern times. We're ready to do that. My group has also been very committed to this. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Amen! Amen! Amen!]] We even had to separate from the FPÖ, because there was a group in the FPÖ, which did not take responsibility, but only wanted to be against it. As elected representatives, we want to design Austria, as we have done in the last six years. This is our offer also for the next four years in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9120	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. Mr Klubobmann, also 18 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e9247	Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Molterer said in his speech today that it was elected in advance at the request of the opposition. – I didn’t know so far that the opposition here in the House may wish for something successfully. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... Need for explanation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Does the Jarolim know...?]] This time it was the case. [[Abg. Scheibner: Time and again!]] This should have been about the only desire in the whole legislative period with which we have not come across closed ears. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no!]] It is true, however, Mr Molterer, that the entire Federal Government and other high representatives of the ÖVP, such as President Kohl, have said again and again until a few days ago: We work in the service of the Republic until the last possible day, and that is at the end of November! Until then, the sleeves are started, the sleeves are tightened up, and then the elections are. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: “Starting clear” was the cast farmer!]] Now everything is different – what I very much welcome, because it is obvious and with hands to grasp that you are at the end of your Latin. [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Other programmes are not on, even good ideas are no longer implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Some members of this Federal Government also have good ideas, such as the Minister of Justice, who wanted to learn from the social situation, namely in the area of family policy, in the area of family law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's where we have a government template, Mr. Cot!]] Whether one regrets it or approves it, however, but: [[Abg. Eder: Mrs Fekter needs it! Prevents this...!]] The classical families are more and more rare. [[Abg. May. Worm: Fundamental...!]] There is this patchwork phenomenon that the children are growing up with this or that father, with this mother or with that stepmother et cetera, and that one should also have some legal consequences and should – the Minister of Justice is right to say. But the ÖVP doesn't want that, and that's why it doesn't happen anymore. [[Abg. May. Worm: A softened...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Oh, yes!]] Oh, Mrs. Fekter, suddenly! They were the ones who have crossed all the time. They are the symbol of this reactionary kind of family policy in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: petrification!]] Good thing you see for yourself that now the juice has gone out, the tank is empty and that's why we went on 1st. In October the National Council elections will be held. I find it a little difficult to do so right here in Parliament. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is “reactionary ”?]] Please? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Be a little careful! “Reactionary” is not good!]] Oh, yeah. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, that's not all right!]] The television viewers can't understand our conversation now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, that's not all right!]] Mr Molterer protests against my characterization of Mrs Fekter as the epitome of a backward... [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, you said something else!]] [[Further calls.]] I have said: reactionary family policy; I stand for that too. But you don't like it, Mr. Molterer, I understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If you're married, it's not reactionary yet!]] This is, of course, perfectly normal, that at such a final meeting – perhaps we will have more meetings – the government parties say: Austria is not only wonderful, but it is wonderful because we have ruled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just because you're married, you're not reactionary yet!]] I would like to protest a little against this second point. Is that absolutely necessary? - We all love Austria. But wasn't the Attersee there, for example, before you formed the Black and Blue Government in 2000? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: The Moon Sea too!]] The Moon Sea too! [[Abg. Broukal: But today it is much more beautiful and bigger, you have to admit that!]] Every federal state, all these natural beauty et cetera, they have always been there. [[Abg. Neudeck: Professor! 18 minutes can be long!]] The Austrians, I think, have a certain similarity with the Upper Italians in a sense, with the Northern Italians No matter who is on the government, you work hard, you try hard, you have success, sometimes not, but that the government is now responsible for everything – no, you are not! [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you coming to Lake Garda now?]] That you can write every success, so to speak, on your flags, that's silly, and no one in this country buys you this! Why Give You're even getting these blushes? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Thank you, Wolfgang, for...!]] Policy is one of the factors in this country that plays a role, and we all strive to shape the framework conditions correctly. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And we do it!]] But now that you're on everything that's wonderful in this country – and that's a lot, I emphasize it again; but, please, I don't have to say: This country is so beautiful because there is the ÖVP! It's just a little exaggeration. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Let’s say, “even”! We agree on “even ”!]] We Greens will stress very strongly in this election campaign what we have already emphasized – there is not the slightest reason to depart from this line – that the importance of the education and training of younger people, of young people, but also of adults has been seriously neglected and therefore appropriate measures are necessary. We need to invest more in this area. Secondly, it is not easy to see why so often – now I use this expression again – the human capital of women is not properly used, why too many women are excluded from careers, from a career in the labour market, although they would like to. Whether they have children or not: You're in trouble. [[Abg. Steibl: We still have the freedom of choice! We have freedom of choice!]] Third point: Energy policy and labour market, or at all any link between economic policy, a reasonable ecology/environment policy and growth policy. Why does this government neglect the opportunities offered by Austria? – Ladies and gentlemen in the High House already know my examples, but those in front of the television screens may not all, namely the company in Steinach am Brenner: four employees three years ago, today 180 employees! - Don't! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thanks to the eco-strom funding]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oja!]] Mr Molterer has still not understood. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I know the company too!]] This company is active in the field of photovoltaics, one of the most modern areas of solar technology and even in the field of renewable technology. This company must export 100 percent of its products because it does not have a market in Austria and there is no such market – among other things, because the Federal Government has neglected to shape this market through appropriate framework conditions, through appropriate funding. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Some companies...!]] The much maimed Germany is at the forefront of the promotion of renewable energy in this area across Europe. And this also applies to Spain – Spain, which, by the way, has for some time had a social-democratic government that has introduced these regulations. [[Abg. May. Worm: In family policy, they are still in Spain!]] There is no need for any political debate on this. I think that we only need to agree on the objectives, and the measures do not arise by themselves, but we can discuss them properly: in the field of training, in the area of women and the labour market, in the area of a modern, efficient energy policy, which also ensures, among other things, that we do with less energy use at the same level of comfort, e.g. in the matter of heat for homes and houses. But fourthly, there is an area of hundreds of thousands of people who are somehow ignored by both social democracy and the People's Party: These are the new self-employed, the one-person companies, the micro-enterprises, so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... are a priority for us!]] – No, Mrs Fekter, they have neglected you! For example, in the area of tax reforms, this applies to this group of people, at least about 200,000 people in that country, 200,000 people who at least secure their own jobs, that is, 200 000 jobs, and some other employees. Tax policy measures are needed to make their lives easier. Here measures are necessary to make life easier for them in the area of bureaucracy. Many of these people have not voluntarily become independent, but many of them have also made themselves independent on their own initiative to make their lives more flexible. Last but not least, we also need an area in which I have always wondered that the ÖVP once, what does that mean, social... Christian-social... [[Abg. Broukal: Christian-social!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have a problem with the word?]] No, no, not at all! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Was just a question!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But as in the past – that is why I didn't come across spontaneously – once a Christian-social party; let's leave the word “Christian”, there are also good Jews and good Muslims with quite similar ideas in the field of social policy, in the area of poverty reduction. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: More reactionary-social!]] And there are also people without religious confession – such as me – who also take this very seriously. That is why I do not want to believe the Affix “Christian” to be, but it is about social matters. Combating poverty in this wealthy country of Austria: 1 million people at the poverty line, about 500 000 of them in fortified poverty. Let us consider together – but please not only to the election, but also afterwards – what fiscal measures to take in this area of social policy are to be taken for those whom we cannot otherwise achieve, at least in the short term, because education and training are typically a medium-term, a long-term measure and not from today on to tomorrow, but is the most important measure to prevent unemployment and poverty. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Service-oriented!]] However, we will not take part in a subject that at least two parties fully and by two parties, so to speak, blitzingly. This is the incitement of the resentments, the reservations against people in this country who do not have an Austrian passport. We will not take part in this kind of aggressment of xenophobia under any circumstances! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Strache has shown in the Vienna election campaign what line he intends to take. He will undoubtedly repeat this in the National Council election campaign. Westenthaler has seen: aha, the subject could go, and put one more on it. What's one thing – he's gonna put a kilo on it! Strache said: Stop immigration; Westenthaler wants to identify 400,000 people. [[Abg. Scheibner: Illegale!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: A kilo of foreigners?]] 400,000 Illegals? In this country? - Never in life, that's ridiculous! [[Abg. Scheibner: 300,000 are...!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Gaal: A nonsense!]] [[Further calls.]] The second measure proposed by Westenthal – allowing children to visit school only if their parents have legal residence status – is the promotion of illiteracy in this country. How to propose such a thing seriously is now really a mystery. And the ÖVP is silent about that! - I didn't understand your call now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your model fails in Berlin!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You from the ÖVP keep silent about letting that happen. This is your coalition partner, the new head of your coalition partner BZÖ! You ignore that, you don't care. [[Abg. Head: We're gonna let it go!]] Westenthaler praises himself as an interior minister. [[Abg. Head: What kind of democratic understanding do you have? We'll let you do it!]] I can only say: Qui tacet, consentire videtur – if You can follow my Latin. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] To the ÖVP still: They feel very secure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] This superiority can still fall on your head a little bit. You have also felt very sure that in the ORF you are driving the upcoming Director-General/Director-General election, along with all related personnel decisions, to head through the summer. You may succeed anyway; but just as you originally planned it, you did not succeed. When we Greens thought about this at the turn of the year, we thought: This cannot continue with the risk of the independence of the ORF, with the party politicization, the ORF's ÖVP mastery, especially in the information and news field. Let's try to make this a public issue! Because only we, the Greens, can do that. In this relationship, the Social Democrats have, so to speak, picked a little bit of past on the hat. Because at that time, for example, at the climate time in 1999 – I can remember it with good – climate has passed from left to right in the TV from left to right, and if it has not gone differently, from right to left – continuously! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's right!]] Therefore, the SPÖ is difficult to represent a credible position. But we do not want the Director-General, nor do we want the editor-in-chief, we do not want the Director of Information. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Just happen!]] I know the greens are too small for such games, and everyone knows that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] I'm just saying, If this continues when the ORF plays its reputation, its credibility, especially in the information field – and this is its largest capital, which distinguishes it from any private channels in the German television sector – it will also put its economic existence at risk. And the ÖVP is responsible for this line – to this day! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] After all, we have managed to draw the public's attention to this issue, to bring it into the print media, so to speak, to anchor it in the ears of the television audiences and radio listeners, that it is a lot about this: about the party independence, about the credibility of the ORF and thus about the culture, the internal culture of the ORF among editors who do very good work – could if they were left! We will continue to keep a close eye on this matter and will not allow the ÖVP to wink it the way it thought, zack, bag over the summer with its people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm looking at the clock a little bit. [[Abg. Scheibner: Time passes away and does not pass away!]] A few sentences on the BAWAG, the ÖGB, the SPÖ and the ÖVP in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thank you!]] Of course, this will be a dominant, at least an important election topic. Not only that the BAWAG has reduced billions of euros is already remarkable, but also that the ÖGB de facto has lost its total assets in this process. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: “Hungary Capitalism”!]] The ÖGB has lost its total assets! Of course, this must represent not only the one or other Director-General of this company, but also the owner of the BAWAG and the representatives of the Supervisory Board, without exception officials of the ÖGB, without exception members of the Socialist Trade Unions' Group. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] [[Minister of State Dr Bartenstein: Yes, but!]] It's as good as it is without exception. The ÖGB as an important institution likes to see itself as a party across and independent. But then he must make that credible in his appearance! That means, not a top official – and I say: The President and the President of the respective individual unions should therefore be represented in the SPÖ Club, in the ÖVP Club, or in another political party club in the National Council. In this respect, I believe that Dr Gusenbauer is right on this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are candidates...!]] What does the ÖVP do post-turning? – Mr Neugebauer from the ÖVP, from the Public Service Trade Union – President, Chairman of the ÖGB’s individual trade union – of course, this is quite the same. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] The ÖVP finds this to be perfectly correct. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The ÖVP is right that the supposedly independent, cross-party ÖGB is governed by the blacks, if I have correctly understood your comments on the proposal of Gusenbauer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We take employees seriously!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You'd be right. But if Mr Katzian of the GPA is not to sit in the SPÖ National Council Club, then for the same and even worse reasons, the Public Service Trade Union must not be represented here by its chairman! Every single little officer is right for me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, you are in favour of me, and you would do me a great favor if you could exclude it today, with this Mr Ausländer-Deportier Westenthaler or with Mr Strache, a Minister of Justice Stadler – if you could exclude these two options. [[Abg. Hi, what's that? Those words!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] If you don't, that's your thing; I'd just be glad. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10157	Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel is now speaking. Also for you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10179	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The end of the legislative period is certainly one of the most exciting in the Second Republic. She was a real challenge – inside and outside. May I remind you of just a few cornerstones and landmarks that have taken place in these four years: That was the Iraq war in 2003; by the way, we have found a common line across the party borders, which, I believe, has been very confirmed in retrospect if we look at the development in Iraq today. In 2004, there was the historic enlargement of the European Union by ten new Member States. In 2005, on the one hand, there was the failure of the EU Constitution, which was almost unanimously adopted in the House. But there were also dramatic events such as the bombings in Madrid and London; they have brought terror to Europe, to European capitals. The year 2006 saw a dramatic increase in the gas crisis of the Russian Federation with Ukraine, but also with the Iranian nuclear programme, and we also held the EU Presidency in the first half. If one now sees that in Lebanon the Israeli army is taking to hits against the Hezbollah, in Palestine radical Hamas has been elected, then the naturally worrying and difficult moments have been when, I think, we have positioned ourselves well in the middle of the European spectrum – and always, as I mean, on the side of the United Nations, on the side of peace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Alexander van der Bellen said earlier that we were at the end of our Latin. – We do not speak Latin here, we are not at the end of our Austrian-colored German, but we have implemented an incredible amount of work. But you are right, Mr Van der Bellen: The Wolfgangsee also does not owe its name to me; it has been given long before I became Federal Chancellor. You're right. But a little humour can't hurt. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But we are not with Latin or with German in the end, but we have done our government programme well. I looked at this again today in the morning – I got up at 6 a.m. to prepare a speech –: We have carried out more than 100 projects, quite specific projects, and we have actually completed these projects up to two. [[Abg. Oils: That's not true!]] This is a great success program in these four years – and you can be a little proud of it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Of course, you will ask yourself: Which two projects did not succeed? We have set up an Austrian Convention – as far as I can remember – with Franz Fierce as the chairman, who should prepare the conditions for a new division of tasks, for a new constitution. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved. No debt allocation now, no matter what, but I think we should continue to work on this draft in the next legislative period. The Federal Workers' Act is still under way. The time has certainly become too short now, but this will be a programme point which will be in place in the next legislative period. We did not manage the Olympic application for Salzburg 2010, but together with Mayor Heinz Schatz and the Land of Salzburg, we did our best to prepare the 2014 application and apply better next year. I hope we win, too. If you look at the things I announced in the government statement at the time, you can already see that there has been a lot of very positive success. Social is what creates work!, I said. – We have 124 000 more jobs today! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - Of course! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We wanted to improve the compatibility of work and family, and in these years, thanks also to Elisabeth Gehrer, we have increased the number of child care places from 40,000 to 70,000. We want to be a country of living solidarity between generations – and I think that the pension reform, whose effects will only develop in the next few years, was and is very important. An individual pension account, lifelong calculation, a gentle increase in the early retirement age and the harmonisation of all pensions. No more special rights, no more civil servants' pension! All this, by the way, with the approval of the President of the Public Service Trade Union, here in the House, who is grateful. I think this is really a great achievement and a proof of the performance of the social partners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The social-democratic trade unionists voted in the same way. I am therefore very happy when I have such people, if I also have such friends and partners in the law-making bodies. I do not see this as a burden to express it quite openly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We have undertaken to significantly increase the number of precautionary investigations. We wanted to reach 1.5 million by 2010. Until then, we still have a proper path, but we have come up from 600 000 to 800 000. We want to make Austria the most family and child-friendly country in the world. And I say very clearly now, Professor Van der Bellen: Reactionary is not who makes himself strong for the families. On the contrary! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Maria Fekter is certainly not a reactionary, but a courageous, modern woman, a woman who lives with both legs. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] No discrimination: clear, but a promotion of families, in which almost every one of us has grown up and has experienced grant and love and a lot of quality. I think such a thing should be done in the 21st century. In the first century, even if you are not right, Mrs Sburny. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We have undertaken to make Austria a knowledge society by the year 2010; 20 percent of Austrians should have graduated from academic studies or a university. In the past, we were 14 per cent, today we are 18 per cent, so two thirds of the way back. It is simply not true, Professor Van der Bellen, that we would not appreciate the gifts of our girls and women! On the contrary: 56 percent of all maturants are women today, and 54 percent of all students are women. Great! A trend which the Minister of Education has favoured and which lies in her area of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We have undertaken to do more for the environment, and there have been some things happening, there have been real milestones set. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Ökostromgesetz!]] – But you really only have one topic! – We have invested €180 million in addition to achieving climate change targets. It's what Sepp Pröll has done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We introduced the diesel particle filter. As regards the use of biomass, Austria has progressed to third place in the European Union. We have increased the share of wind energy in Austria from 10 percent to 11 percent, the proportion of wind energy has been reduced. Almost 400 000 households can be supplied with this. [[Abg. Brosz: And now it's enough!]] – I already know: Nobody is perfect, but this balance is really not bad, Professor Van der Bellen and Alfred Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] On tax policy: We have undertaken to reach a 40 percent tax rate by 2010. We're almost there now. We have 40.6 or 40.7 percent, thanks to these two enormous discharges that Karl-Heinz Grasser and Alfred Finz have enforced. Of course you can still say: even more, even more! There has never been a tax reform that expressed a greater volume, as a percentage of gross domestic product, and has brought about so much relief. Now I'm telling you something – I've been the EIA medium-sized speakers for a long time: Of the redundancies – almost €4 billion in redundancies in this legislative period – almost €1.5 billion benefit the middle class, which corresponds to 70 percent of the total economic relief. Stop – but this is not really meant – to divide the middle class and the large enterprises! I really am a big business, yes, a company loves and worth when he employs people when he is researching here when he is exporting from here when he pays taxes here. So thank the middle-sizes and the big ones! We must work for both, and we have done a lot of things there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We have also made tremendous changes in the health reform. I'm just referring to the abolition of 45 million health certificates. This entire paper industry: gone! E-Card introduced; a real show project! At the finale of the World Cup, the German politicians, the German Chancellor, addressed me and said: How did you do that?! – This, ladies and gentlemen, will also be a demonstration project for other countries. A handful of countries – Austria is one of them – has implemented this so far. By the way, we have also enforced, for the sake of justice, the equality between workers and employees, the same health insurance contributions, which meant a relief for the workers. That was absolutely an hour's commandment. Why didn't you do the SPÖ for decades, if it was natural anyway, as you say?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The national health funds were created. Country Health Fund – and there are some social-democratic speakers involved. I should also like to mention: the law on equal treatment for disabled persons, the refund for which a total of € 1 billion has been made available. Andreas Khol knows: Already thousands of people have been permanently compensated; this will certainly be done in full by the end of this year. In the field of business, a founding offensive was launched. The target was 30 000 new entrants. We are already at over 31,000. Further: We have significantly reduced the additional wage costs in relation to older workers. Austria is at least twice as strong in terms of infrastructure – and this will, of course, also be the Vice-Chancellor – as it was in the period before 2000. These are things that will serve the site and thus also the quality and beauty in our country in the coming years and decades. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Of course, safety is important to me. In the security field, we have reduced military service from eight months to six months, and the civil service from twelve to nine months, Ladies and gentlemen – and this without weakening the power of the federal army in any way. However, we have also achieved a greater degree of security in the field of security through the reorganisation – police, gendarmerie, customs, everything in one hand, security, as it were, from a single source. In our country – video surveillance, modern electronic means – the fourth largest database in the world was built. And the successes are spectacular: The crime rate is falling, the investigation is being carried on very well. We've got 700 more cops on the street, more for security outside people, because the administration has been reduced. In fact, we have a 25 percent higher rate at the push. But that was also necessary, there were some really black sheep with it. We now have 43 percent fewer asylum applications. Traiskirchen has been at its lowest level for one and a half decades, with 500 refugees being well accommodated there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I believe that in these four years we have pursued the security policy absolutely with an eye, in accordance with human rights, as well as in terms of security, as the people expect from us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course – this is the basis of everything and everyone – is very important: The finances are under control! But that was not a matter of course: In 2000, Austria was the last country in the European Union; today we are absolutely on the average. And there, of course, is the Ministry of Finance under the leadership of the Party-independent Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Have you – I don't know because there's a laugh – joined a party? - No, I'm fine. [[Minister of Finance Mag. Grasser denied this.]] So: Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser remains party-independent, and I think that's all right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] If we – and this is already very serious, because we are constantly talking about “debts” – disregard debt repayments and interest rates, we have achieved a primary surplus of €20 billion in these four years alone. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That is not a matter of course. And this is, of course, the first way to achieve a balanced budget. Interestingly, I have not heard a single proposal from the opposition speakers today, but only proposals that would have resulted in additional costs or less revenue. At some point in time, You have to decide. Whoever wants to keep the budget in order, who understands something about the economy, must of course also create the substance and scope for it, ladies and gentlemen. I want a strong state! But this is only possible if it is based on solid finances, because then it can also help: where there is a need. We spend this year – the number is, I believe, not everyone usual – more on pensions than in 2002. [[Call the SPÖ:How many million euros?]] We spend €4 billion more than in 2002: 34 billion € this year, 30 billion € in 2002. Only those who are strong in their finances – and that is not of course with God – can do such a thing. This year, we are spending almost €5 billion on unemployment support alone, on active labour market support. We'll help where it's important. Just like in the flood, in the event of disasters or also in the disaster with the BAWAG, where we have given a state liability of €900 million. Dear friends, that's not a matter of course! A strong state needs a strong foundation – and such a one has been created by this government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The basic tone of the Government Declaration was forward-looking and sustainable, but this cannot be fulfilled in a single legislative period. It takes more work for the next ten years. I really think this is because we have to go towards the future – and not just wait until it takes us into the tow, so to speak. Changes take place – regardless of whether it fits us or not. Change doesn't wait to stop them. Few go more in the job in pension for which they have been trained or where they have started to work. It should, therefore, also strengthen all political forces, all responsible politicians together, what makes this change ready and empowers them. A retro concept, nostalgia shock, good old age, “upholstery policy”, that doesn’t work. [[Abg. Oellinger: This represents you!]] I'm sure that's harmful. Oskar Kokoschka once said: Modern society often overlooks that the world is not the property of a single generation. [[Abg. Oillinger: Not a party either!]] In this sense, we should make policies, just as we have actually done in the Government Declaration and the Government Programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not trying to scatter incense grains here, but I believe that I can realistically report here. Austria is not in bad shape today. According to all the structural indicators in the EU Commission comparison, we are moving towards the third place in the European Union; in terms of eGovernment, we are even in place one. We are in the competitiveness of international studies in third place in the world. Not bad at all! So we stand well, and that is a reasonable basis for making good policy for the next few years. I would therefore like to thank you at this point, the freely elected representative, and express my respect, As one who has been listening to this House as elected representative since 1979 – I always withdraw the mandate when I come to the government – I know the meaning of free and strong representation. I am proud that all levels of population are represented in this representation and everyone can talk to everyone that we are dealing with, but that we are always together to achieve something together. No party is excluded here, and no one is left outside at the door. I think it is very important not to agree on the democratic maturity of a political party, but that we all remain in conversation with each other. This is not a matter of course in Europe and in the world. Let's keep that! Let's keep it in the election campaign, too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] No matter how the choice goes: We will have to look at ourselves afterwards and work together either as government groups or in opposition. I also thank the opposition for criticizing us that she keeps us awake, that sometimes she also stands by us with arguments, sometimes provides ideas! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Very rare!]] They have really enriched us with many ideas, with suggestions, even though we sometimes have not always responded positively to them. That was quite okay. I would also like to thank the government groups that have made our reform work self-confidence and constructively! A little holiday will do us all good – and then advertise a short, intense choice, no choice fights as I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10542	Next, Mr Grillitsch. You and the next three speakers have 10 minutes each. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10563	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of Austria and the people in Austria. We can live and work here, where others make vacations, here with us in Austria. And I'll tell you: Why is that so? Let's ask that one thing! Why don't we ask ourselves why, ladies and gentlemen? I became aware of the last year at a very impressive event here in the High House, in the Reichsratsaal, when we thought 60 years of republic and 50 years of state treaty, when we saw pictures, as Austria looked out 61 years ago, morally destroyed on the ground, materially. [[Abg. Broukal: Morally not on the ground! No, that's not it!]] [[Abg. Oils: What and who do you mean when you speak of “moral on the ground ”? The old Nazis?]] At the latest I wondered, as one who had not experienced war: How was it possible to build this Austria in such a way that we can live today as we live? – Because there are people, because there have been responsibilities – across professional groups, across political party borders – who have known: We have to stick together! That is why it has succeeded in building up this Austria in this way – and because today and since 2000 we have had a German chancellor, who is the best of the two republics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Better than Raab and Figl?]] This team around Wolfgang Schüssel gives people what they want, namely comprehensive security: Economic policy security, labour market security, security in education policy, tax security, ladies and gentlemen, and as agricultural representatives, I say, above all, security for rural areas and for rural families. Thank you very much, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The figures speak for themselves, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Tax reforms, through growth packages, have succeeded in securing Austria's economic location, making Austria's business location attractive to investors. Let's look at the number of employees. They are the highest – we have already heard – 124 000 more employees. That is, 100 jobs per day plus in Austria. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] Let's compare this with Red-Green in Germany: 1 000 jobs minus. This is the difference between the government policy of the Austrian People's Party and a red-green government policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] At the beginning of this legislative period, I say this in gratitude, we passed a new Federal Animal Protection Act unanimously, for which I thank all the political groups, a new Federal Animal Protection Act, with which we have succeeded, has also succeeded in perceiving on the one hand the longings of consumers, but at the same time we have succeeded in convincing you that we also need the practical capacity for our farmers. We have also done this here, we have brought nine country laws into a very modern, Europe-wide federal animal protection law. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also discussed rural areas here in the House; a year ago this debate started massively. It is a shame that Mr Gusenbauer is not here now, because what you have been trying to do about uncertainty with people in the rural area throughout Austria, especially with farmers, was just too irresponsible, Mr Eine! [[Abg. Neudeck: Well, that's not so bad!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Einm]] [[Abg. Reheis: You have this to answer!]] It was irresponsible what you did there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say thank you today to Wolfgang Schüssel, thanks to Sepp Pröll, thank you to Ursula Plassnik that it has succeeded in ensuring not only a lot of funding for rural areas for the period from 2007 to 2013, but more than we had, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Reheis: Yes, thank you!]] A great success by Wolfgang Schüssel, Sepp Pröll and Ursula Plassnik! Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Please say a few more thank you!]] You didn't realize what it was all about. This isn't just about the farmers. If you had reduced 50 percent, you would have threatened 530 000 jobs in Austria. They are a danger to jobs in rural areas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You would have destroyed the demand profile of consumers with your policy. What does the consumer want? – The consumer wishes safe food – comprehensible, environmentally friendly, animal-friendly. We're supposed to keep the landscape open. You would have threatened this massively with 50 percent reduction! We have succeeded in ensuring that the mining industry is not 50 percent less available, as you wanted, but more available. We have succeeded in ensuring that the environmental programme is not 50 percent less available, as the SPÖ wanted, but that more is available. We have succeeded in achieving projects in rural areas in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: You didn't succeed at all!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: 22,000 farmers less!]] Mr. Kummerer, I praised you very much yesterday for your handshake quality. [[Abg. School: That was a mistake!]] I still appreciate you so much, but unfortunately you didn't recognize the meaning of this green pact. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: 22,000 farmers less!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also given a positive signal to the small communities – and you all know, when you are outside, how difficult it is for these small communities to do so – with the financial compensation, because the small communities have so far paid as much in the pot, but by 50 percent less than the large ones. That is why we have said that we want justice, we want justice in the sharing of resources. Together with our Federal Chancellor, we have succeeded in providing €80 million more for these communities. – Also a great success of this German government under Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] The Federal Chancellor has already cut it: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union. There, too, the growth packages, with €60 million, ensured that on the one hand, the world can be moved into the village and on the other hand, the products, the landscape, the ideas can be put out into the world in seconds. [[Abg. Shopf: 20 percent!]] You probably never come to the rural area. [[Abg. Shopf: In the Mühlviertel 20 percent!]] There are positive examples. I tell you, there are jobs there at once. All of a sudden, there are 450 jobs where fox and hen have said good night. At one time there are in Georgsberg in the district of Deutschlandsberg the company TCM, car supplier for Opel, or the company IBS, supplier for the paper industry, 250 jobs in Teufenbach in Murau district or the company KLH, thanks to broadband technology 80 houses for the Olympiade in Turin. These are some examples that are only possible thanks to the politics of the Austrian People's Party, thanks to this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I am very grateful to Mr Bundeskanzler, ladies and gentlemen, that he has addressed the situation of the nation in a subject that burns us all under the nails: In a positive dialogue with consumers in the future, it is about increasing the value of food. We have therefore also launched the action “So tastes Austria – Taste of the Homeland” in which we want to ask more questions about this value together with them. We will, together with Sepp Pröll, adopt a list of diets concerning agriculture, and also with our German friends for the next presidency as regards the area of administration. We will also increase the issue of energy, particularly in the agricultural sector, for agriculture and for rural areas, because we have three factors which are unbeatable: This is independence, the creation of work through the use of new technologies and at the same time the contribution to the protection of the environment. In this sense, as I mean, it is clear what happens at this election: People want security – and you choose security, that is, the Austrian People's Party and Wolfgang Schüssel.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10865	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Also 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e10886	Mr Bundeskanzler, at heart: Don't you have the feeling that you've applied a little too thick today? I already see that now the election campaign begins, and there you want to present yourself in the most beautiful light, that is already clear, but normally it is so that you let others say the praise. Perhaps it was too little praise to you, which came from Klubobmann Molterer and from the other speakers, so that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, had to improve, so to speak, but I have never heard so much self- praise at all. [[Abg. Gahr: Honor, to whom honor is due!]] So Ludwig XIV. would be left there under a shroud of shame! It's impossible for you to present yourself like that! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That hurts you, gal!]] It is, of course, a division of roles. There comes Klubobmann Molterer, who of course has a bitsel to call in here into the arena – and then the sluggish, state-carrier comes from the Federal Chancellor. But his face-to-face speech, this self-infated smile, and how he stands, is so full and satisfied, that says: Here I am, and here I want to stay! That's exactly his goal, and that's what he keeps spreading here. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: And then there is the speech of Mr. Cap!]] That's right! Then there is the sectial behavior of the ÖVP fraction here. They're just waiting for you to take a look at some chancellor. They shuddered inside after this look. You hope so. And: When is the climax finally coming? When can we get up? Of course, all of this has been staged and turned out. [[Abg. Lens: No word of it! Not a word!]] It's been done exactly before, starting from the tie. The red-white-red tie here is supposed to describe a bitsel the state-bearing element. Then, someday, a “snap ” is made, and then the whole group jumps up and celebrates the jubilation. I'm just trying to translate this for the government members' empires. They are probably filled with this self- praise because they have to experience it at every Council of Ministers meeting, but here they have to be interested, enthusiastic, with advocating three. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We like our chancellor! You do not like your chairmen! That's the difference!]] I followed the scene with high interest, as the Federal Chancellor kindly said to his “Ziehsohn” Grasser: Have you joined? And Grasser actually, if I remember correctly, said: Yes, do you wish, my chancellor? [[Lively cheerfulness at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Light face red has risen at the Minister of Finance. Inwardly, he was emotionalized. What can he like about me? – I don't know what consequences this will have. Maybe Grasser will immediately fill out this membership form right now, but it is really interesting in what is almost sect-likely tried to show the best. [[Abg. May. Regulator: Mr. Cap, you should be at the Burgtheater!]] I'll surprise you now, Federal Chancellor. I've been looking at this now and I'm ready to say: It was not all bad; otherwise we would not have decided so much together here. Really, it wasn't all bad. For example, the abolition of the two-thirds blockade in the school laws. We had to put a little pressure on you, because you weren't the one, but it's gone. Or the Federal Animal Protection Act. There are dozens of materials that we have decided together because we have come in here because we have brought in our ideas and because you, by chance, for whatever reason, were willing to take that up so that we could decide together. Sometimes the water is up to your neck, but we have been looking for consensus in the interest of Austria, if it was possible, because Austria is more important to us, not the ÖVP, which is more important to you than Austria, but because Austria is more important to us. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, that's with you with the ÖGB!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Or with the BAWAG!]] Or there has certainly been public pressure on individual materials, so that you were formally forced to go on consensus. We have always understood ourselves to be a constructive opposition, but it was willing, on behalf of Austria, to contribute so much together here too. This was in the security sector, in the social sector, in sports, in the economy and in school. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, but still. You know, Federal Chancellor, you could have kept your speech more credible today. [[Abg. Lens: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You should have said: I have succeeded in this, but I honestly say that in the university field we have made too little money available, because we have dismantled democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who decomposed democracy?]] Yes, I did, and it was successful, but get your hands on it. Unfortunately, we got into our pockets with the pensioners. We then felt this in our consumption, and then we felt it in our growth. Yes, we have been successful in many ways, but for ideological and advertising reasons we have taken the view that unemployment has increased. The zero deficit, that was just a bit religious, once with manipulations we have reached it and now never again. We didn't succeed. So you could continue the list: Yes, we have tried in the field of health, but ultimately we may have expressed our opinion for ideological reasons, a two-class medicine is more financial and therefore better. Yes, we want more private in the pension sector, in the social sector, because we simply want more private, because we just don't bother a two-thirds society, a little bit of an elbow company. Yeah, we're for elites, but for social elites. We say those who are above should stay above, and those who are below should stay below. Equal opportunities, we don't like that, that's what Kreisky invented, that's not ours. You know, such a little self-criticism would be appropriate, but with you you are so heard that you feel that you are the best chancellor of all time. And at all. For 2,000 years, since Marc Aurel, Austria has finally again had someone who leads the country. – This attitude is about that way. If, of course, this comes through – I am now almost advisor to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I am your advisor – if you present all of this, you will not be credible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, when you make yourself and talk about security – and this has been done by several speakers, it was a command issue that said: the word “security” must occur; there are investigations that Austrians love safety –: Of course, right. Austria is a beautiful country, a proud country, diligent people live here, who, despite this government, have often made sure that this country was able to develop further. Despite this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'll tell you something: The word “security, ” what does that mean? Is it really safer to plan your evening of life? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] No, it has not become safer, because you have actually caused uncertainty in this area! They have caused uncertainty when it comes to implementing equal opportunities in the field of education. They have caused uncertainty when it comes to having real opportunities for employment and jobs. They have caused uncertainty in so many areas. Certainly only one thing was: where a post was released in the State Service, a black one came. That's your understanding of security. That's what you've been doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Certainly, if the Minister of Finance started selling state property, it would happen unprofessionally. It was safe when he planned stock exchanges that they were diletantic and did not work. We can still use the word “security” in a wide variety of areas, but that you act as if you had provided security, that is ridiculous. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]] It is certain that the Eurofighter buy is one of the biggest wastes of money in the history of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Wattaul: Don't forget the BAWAG!]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, you were spiritual anyway in such a high flight today: Haven't you been looking for the Eurofighter somewhere up there in the clouds and not found it? Something's wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can tell you why the Eurofighter is not up here: Because it doesn't work in the back and front of this sinteur combat plane you want to buy here. [[Abg. Großruck: Half cheaper than the BAWAG scandal! Half of the BAWAG plea!]] - And that's how you could continue. It is certain that the culture has gotten far too little. Look at this: a completely dejected State Secretary Morak, who already gets nothing for his budget. The culture has no place in you at all! No priority at all! That would have been said here. – You just think of the scrap tanks because you look so dreamy. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] This is also the term “safety”. Is the German army really a guarantee of security. If you go to the hangar and see a tank there and you come with the oil thing and want to make it a bit more mobile, but that's not because it's actually for scrapping – be honest: Is that security? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (pointing to the gallery where a large group of federal soldiers sits) Are you against the young people sitting up there?]] The Federal Chancellor says that we have now created 700 police officers. How many have you dismantled before? How many savings have you made? In my district alone, the Commissioner in Hernals has been closed. That's more security? You know, you need to find a little distance to yourself, to your own size! But you can't do that. If you do not really create this step, you will never reach the size you would like. You probably have a little bit of a Kreisky complex because you just never... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Actually, Dr. Schüssel has a problem, and that is Bruno Kreisky. Wherever it comes, it is measured on this scale, among other things, and it will not... [[Abg. Neudeck: Your problem is the Kreisky!]] Has You're back in the hand of the water bubble? A little water wearing for the government or what? I've always believed that you have a little bit of an independent claim, but you don't want to develop it. But I was with something else now. I was at the Kreisky complex of Federal Chancellor Schüssel. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Bowl, that's the same level as Kreisky!]] The problem is he's working on it. That's what he tried in the thought year. There was Raab, Figl, Klaus – and then actually already bowl. So about this view of history that the Federal Chancellor wanted to develop there. Now I've brought you back to reality. They look so disillusioned. You actually see the chancellor in a different picture than before, when you forced the group pressure to jump up and cheer up. The new builder looks tormented; the joy is already on his nerves. But the Federal Chancellor has just secured your mandate, he has said that he should stay reincarcerated. That's where you should look more cheerfully. Sit back here again, move a place as an independent ÖGB representative or whatever you may be here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So this is the situation before which we are at the beginning of the election campaign. We also want a fair election campaign, and we will endeavour to lead it with the greatest possible fairness and success.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11209	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed I am now interrupting the sitting for 15 minutes. We will continue at 1.15 p.m., and then we will be Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé's first speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11237	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11273	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by my predecessor. Mr Cap said that the Federal Chancellor had too much praise, he had presented it as if since Marc Aurel everyone had to be happy that there was at last a German chancellor who was really leading the country well. – It is true that everyone was glad that after 30-year-old socialist Chancellorship finally came another German Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ as well as the ÖVP.]] The praise for this federal government cannot be great enough, because what had to be done to remove obstacles, obstacles, burdens, you can't imagine that at all! And we cannot discuss the activities of this Federal Government without taking a look at the situation before this government took office in 2000. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We should wait for our colleague Cap! He's still at lunchtime! Incredible!]] There has been € 130 billion in government debt, with an interest rate service of € 7 billion per year – we are still paying – and the most unpleasant thing is that 70 percent of these 7 billion interest goes abroad, ladies and gentlemen! In these six years, just since 2000, we have paid 46 billion interest rates, as we have said: 70 percent of them abroad. At that time, in 2000, we were before sending the “blue letter” from Brussels. Austria has been the final light in the EU in many areas – and that has changed considerably! At the time, there was no pension system that would have lasted for years, but only solutions have always been created over a year, over two years, and then they have been said. So, and now the pension system is finally rehabilitated! – The fact was that the pension scheme lasted only two years. The health system was overexploited. – This federal government has also begun to do so. We had a foreign right to promote the unbridled access of immigrants. That's all! That is to say, one cannot praise enough what happened in these six years and last four years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This Federal Government has taken up the very, very difficult reform work. And if today, Mr Gusenbauer, has accused the government of committing great burdens to the people, we must say: This was necessary because there was an unprecedented degree of reform, and that would have to be added to the SPÖ. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition repeatedly complains that only tax reliefs have been created in favour of large businesses. – The opposite is true: With corporate tax has been achieved that companies have established themselves in Austria! The report of the Austrian Business Agency states that in 2005 123 foreign companies settled in Austria; the trend towards the departure of corporate headquarters has been stopped. That's how you have to see all this, Mr Gusenbauer – he's not here now, unfortunately. It is true that, on the one hand, we are spending €5 billion on a positive labour market policy, but on the other hand, we are paying €7 billion in interest for the lack of SPÖ's financial policy when it was still in the government. You had the most important resorts, you had the social resort, you had the financial resort – everywhere you could have reformed, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! But I'd like to say something: Through various well thought out economic recovery packages, we now have a very positive situation, a flourishing economy in which more jobs have been created than ever before. And that will benefit everyone! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that many reforms would not have been achieved without us as a coalition partner or would not have been done that way. I refer, for example, to the fact that, for the first time since 1997, the care allowance has been increased. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: One time!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: One time is better than no time!]] – But it was not at all at all, or it has not been increased for almost ten years. Now, for the first time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ as well as the Abg. Neugebauer.]] The equal treatment law has been created. It has created the disability billions, allowing hundreds of disabled people to get a job. We have maintained that the citizenship law is being amended, that it is no longer so easy to become a citizen in Austria, and that early citizenship is ending. We have achieved the merger of the executive. This was a project that socialist ministers of the interior never realized. Lösnak talked about it, Schlögl talked about it, yes, Blecha at the time, but it has now come about. This saves a lot of money. [[Abg. Neugebauer: (in the direction of SPÖ) Just talk, not act!]] In foreign and asylum law, we have now created a law with Mrs. Prokop and Mrs. Gastinger, so that we can really prevent illegal immigrants from staying here and settled in Austria. It is now possible that we as an asylum country can distinguish who is really needy and who is not. Those who actually have a right to seek asylum after the Geneva Convention should remain here, they should have an asylum procedure, but those who only come to circumvent the immigration laws do not want to know how to deal with the asylum law. And that's what we've enforced in this legislative period. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] If you listen to the opposition, then you really believe – today Gusenbauer, Cap and whoever you all talked about – you're talking about another country, a country where poverty, emergency and disease prevail. [[Abg. Mandak: There are many sick people!]] That's not true! I'm really wondering: Why Make You're so bad about this country? This can only be a political calculation – and we reject it! But obviously there is this fear populism really. There was a SPD chairman, Mr. Platzeck, who said in his farewell speech – for obviously he only dared to say this –: There is a current in the left camp, the fear populism of the left, which aims at the populist spread of fear, namely fear of existence. And that is what you are doing, especially the Greens! They really just want to frighten the population. Distinguish You are from this fear populism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] This has become the goal of your policy, but especially at a time when we face very big challenges – I am thinking of globalisation, of the danger of jobs in connection with globalisation, of migration pressure, of crime pollution – that is the wrong way, the path of uncertainty you are going. [[Abg. Oillinger: “The danger of jobs” was good!]] [[Abg. Sburny: We're just criticizing!]] We need confidence – and not pessimism! We need confidence – and not uncertainty! We need hope, especially for young people – and not black painting, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You do nothing good to the people if you just continue your fear policy in the face of the forthcoming election campaign. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of SPÖ) drowning people beat themselves!]] I am convinced that the population will be guided by what happened in these four years or six years for Austria. There have been plans for the future, which no one has previously attacked. [[Abg. Mandak: That's what we see differently!]] And for that, this federal government deserves a very great praise.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11489	Mrs Mag. Weinzinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The jubilant speeches of the ÖVP are now a little fluffy, especially this staging is gone: these red-white-red taferls, quite by chance appropriate to the red-white-red tie of the chancellor and to the red-white-red tie of the National Council President. As you are trying to explain to us, Austria is “ÖVP-tania”. – It’s not, it won’t. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who wrote this to you?]] Any criticism of the ÖVP is more than permissible. It is urgently necessary and certainly no criticism of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you accused me of having only one subject before. First of all, this is clearly wrong, and if you were to make the effort to get a little bit off the Olympic of your alleged historic Chancellorship in Parliament, you would have noticed that the Greens and I, too, personally have a few more issues. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is written off by the cap!]] I will also point it out to you in a moment, but that is an important issue. You have mocked yourself with the fact that, I assume, you did not have the share of wind energy in Austria personally, but the Federal Government. That's right! The wind power was fueled. Against many resistances, many initiatives and communities have boxed through it on the basis of a law that you abolished a few months ago, the famous eco electricity law, which has been made an environmental destruction law. You said: Cover on it, we have enough wind energy – don't expand so much! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: That's not true at all! That's since 1. June in force! Did you sleep?]] [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] That is how your growth policy looks at the same time. Economic policy is a complete humbug if you allow me to simply “turn off” growth sectors and say, for some ideological reasons, that we do not need so much wind energy in Austria. This is also an energy policy and, from climate policy, a complete wahnwitz. I just remember what situation there was last winter, which problems when Putin turned to the oil tap, there was exploding heating costs for many people, and renewable energy is the great future perspective. But no! The ÖVP says: We don't need that much renewable energy, end with wind energy! Cover on it, the eco electricity law is reformed and becomes an environmental brake law! [[Abg. Grill: We are the only ones to... perceive!]] A second issue is the nuclear policy, where you have done what you have done most – whether it is what you can best, I dare not judge now – that is, you have a lot of silence when it comes to nuclear policy. It was only yesterday that the news of news was dominated by the global and also within the EU that nuclear energy is on the rise, as is now a topic at the G-8 summit. One tries to push the supposedly clean nuclear energy back internationally. How did the EU prepare for this G-8 summit during the Austrian Presidency? What initiatives did you take, Mr Bundeskanzler, who in this Presidency had great scope for organizing an alliance of the non-atomic states within the EU and ensuring that the EU does not re-turn into a completely wrong nuclear course? – Nothing has happened! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have been particularly reminded of a sentence from you, Mr Chancellor, which I have written down literally, namely the debate on what family and family policy is and what your group, the ÖVP, is doing as a family policy. You have indeed claimed – “family” in your definition is: married, cohabited with marriage, a man, a woman, one to two or more children in the same household; that is your definition of family, the only one you have legally insured and equipped with rights and opportunities – you have said: This is where love and affection prevail and the children grow up in love and affection. Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you want to say to everyone that in couples who do not have a marriage certificate, the children do not grow up in love and affection? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That there is no love and affection for patchwork families? [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're twisting all this!]] And then you want us not to call this reactionary? I'm so sorry. Go inside and look at the reality of the families, communities and forms of life, in which there is supposed to be love and affection for many places! – Love and affection do not exist in all families. That makes me the second issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping up a copy of the government program) I could give you some topics!]] You see, I have a few more topics than just the one, Mr. Federal Chancellor. The second topic, of course, is one that you don't like to hear so fast: After six years of German Chancellor Schüssel and this Federal Government, how is it going to be in Austria? [[Abg. Steibl: Better trained! Profession and family compatible!]] You can calculate that quite simply. Federal Chancellor! Since you are chancellors, 18 women have also become unemployed every single day of this period of government. [[Abg. Steibl: This can only be a statistics of the Chamber of Workers!]] The government has de facto said in its policy that precarious employment and a little part-time work for women must be sufficient. You always celebrate the number of employees, but you do not say that full-time jobs for women are increasingly difficult to get. They have given women the child care allowance as a consolation pavement, but in reality they have been offered as a dead end, because the return from the period of reference of child care to work has proved to be surprisingly difficult for many women. And that's essentially your policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Then why do you want an extension to 30 months? That doesn't fit!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you just told us that 56 percent of the maturants are girls. - That's correct. It is also correct that 52 percent of graduates are young women. Federal Chancellor! Can you tell me how many women are sitting in the rectorates of the universities in Austria? Exactly zero! With the professors and professors it is just over 10 percent, but this interests the Federal Chancellor again less. We already know that. The same picture can be seen in the case of income justice. Instead of making necessary urgent progress, instead of taking measures to ensure that women earn the same job in the same job as men, nothing like that. I ask you: Is that something so great? [[Abg. Steibl: That's where the union could have done something!]] Shouldn't it be obvious that a woman can earn the same thing and can like a man in the same job? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Instead of taking action, say: You de facto: It's enough if a woman's got a little bit to do with it! This is the model that you have supported, for example, in the tax reform. You don't have the self-evident life assurance for women. Minister Bartenstein has even mentioned here in Parliament that it is necessary to relieve women of the labour market. [[Abg. Neudeck: “Consider”!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Meaningful does not mean word-truth! That's a premise! Make everything ready and make bad!]] That means that the childcare allowance is quite right, because then the labour market is relieved. I can deliver the quote to you at any time, I have it in my documents. Especially “good ” is put to the fore Her image of women by a quote from State Secretary Finz, who is not in the hall right now, said: [[Abg. Neudeck: He saved something!]] Every voice counts, even that of a woman. This will soon be the subject again, and election advertising will start. The ÖVP will think again: Every voice counts, even that of a woman! - But I'll tell you one thing: Whoever meets women with such a disdain, as you do in word and in fact, has lost nothing on the government bank! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's go to the third point. I really don't understand how a government party, which once once called itself at least Christian-social or at least socially committed itself, can boast that more people have been pushed into custody, more people have been pushed to the borders, not allowed in, have been brought to their right of asylum and that we now have one of Europe's sharpest asylum laws. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We don't want any illegals there!]] If that fits the FPÖ, now BZÖ, into the stuff, that surprises few. However, the fact that the ÖVP has been fully drawn to this site should at least give the electorate some thought. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I, as Mr. Klubobmann Molterer has already told me this morning with “seven fat” and “seven lean years” so much Biblical tones, he generally has this slope, perhaps you appreciate it if I also try to find a comparison. [[Abg. Steibl: That was a good speech! You can't say that about you!]] I looked at the seven deadly sins. This is not an uninteresting literature. So I can compare this a little. The seven deadly sins are first – whether one can blame you? – that's perhaps a little risky: To classify the coalition with Haider as a non-chastity – in the transferred political sense – the scholars may argue about it. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: A little far away!]] I think it's been a little unclean thing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful!]] The deadly sin of the genius has proved you in my eyes anyway. Let's just look at your budget policy once! The poor have become poorer and poorer in these years. The greed of shuddering the wealth where wealth is is has been clearly demonstrated. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Stay calm! You're going to take care of that. You have proved that envy and hatred against foreigners and people who do not have an Austrian passport. Anger and retribution. As you deal with the political opponent, I don't think you have to comment on that either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Disability is an interesting aspect. If I look at your power-political ambitions – there is all indifference. Rhetorically, you have shown pride. And finally, the tenacity of the spirit and of the heart. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] This is, I believe, the main accusation you have to make of your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11875	Mr Gorbach has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e11897	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Just what I heard here last is very remarkable. The Green Members have said that it is, for whatever reason, glad that different people on the government bank will not have lost anything. [[Abg. Neudeck: Arrogance comes before the case!]] I am glad that the Austrian people will make this decision and not a Green Member. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, very good!]] Mr President, at the beginning of your speech, but not the first or the only one, you have also wondered that there is such a thing as jubilation today when you take stock of the work of this government in this legislative period. You don't have to be surprised, I think. On the contrary! You should be happy, because if there is a cause for rejoicing and joy, then you should also rejoice publicly. I'm glad that Austria is so good at it. And that is to be said in such a debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] In the case of contributions from the opposition, particularly by Mr Cap, I actually had the impression that some Members of this House are quite embarrassed that Austria is doing so well. This should not be the case – with all the understanding of oppositional attitudes and party-political considerations, especially in times like these. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Not really!]] Let's take a look at the nude numbers! Already the German mathematician and economist Helmut Nahr once meant: The balance sheet is the annual report of the managers. These are current account balances in figures. What have those responsible done? Since I come out of the economy myself, I am always very happy to do so. What have we done? – The Federal Chancellor has already cut off the government programme today. Two points remain, we will do just at the beginning of the next legislative period, Mr. Bundeskanzler – but some will be added. So I am very happy to take stock of it. In view of the comparison of the political balance sheet at the end of a legislative period, we wonder what the change compared to previous values is indicators so that we can also know a little how the company Austria is developing under this leadership. A comparison with other economies is also made. Competition is also good and important in politics. But, of course, the question is also: How are we being judged internationally? What is Austria's international position? Above all, the question arises: How do customers feel? How do the Austrians feel? How do you feel in this Austria led by Black-Orange? - Yes, very well. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Good! Very good!]] This is a call you hear very often when you can believe surveys. [[Abg. Oillingers: Who are the “customers ”? Are these the citizens?]] Another important question for balance-sheeting is: Can one read from the fact that the course for the future is set correctly for this company? Did you quickly make some repairs in order to be able to make a good balance? Or are the routes set in such a way that a good and safe way for the Austrian company is also possible in the medium and long term? It has already been said: In the year 2000, we had a large reform stand which was left to us by Red-Black, the great coalition. This is more or less processed. This work was also absolutely necessary. Our work was strongly oriented towards the future. We were very reformable. I am glad that Mr Partik-Pablé has already mentioned this: There has been a very strong, reformable partner in the form of the BZÖ! We have dealt with many things that were not pleasant, but necessary, such as the pension reform, the harmonisation of pensions; I have already mentioned the two major tax reforms, with a discharge which has been seeking the same in history. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What was that? What was that big?]] This has had a positive impact on the economic location and thus on the workplace, so it has also shown employment efficiency. They will then hear the effects in other comparisons. We have redesigned the research landscape, designed it for the future, internationalized it if you want to. We have launched an investment offensive in the infrastructure sector, one as it never existed in this order before, not even close. So this country, in total, took a good turn. It can be said that Austria has changed over the past few years, and it is still on this one. This is also verifiable, with undisputed - not simply so-called, but undisputed - numbers that can be used with the source. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that Austria is today the fourth-richest country in the EU. The reality is that the purchasing power in Austria is 23 percent higher than the purchasing power in the EU average. That says a lot. This gives the fourth place to Luxembourg, Ireland and Denmark ex aequo with the Netherlands in a similar comparison, which has been drawn quite sober, where simple numbers are used which cannot be manipulated. Or: With the structural indicators, as has already been said, we take third place, in Denmark and Sweden. What is evaluated here? Important things, all of which have been declared important today by the opposition, such as equity and reserves situation in companies, administrative processes in the recruitment of employees, e-government, e-government services, state aid, number of business start-ups – you know that we also have record values here –, number of self-employed women in industrial and service sectors, R&D expenditure as a percentage of GDP, number of patents, Internet penetration in the population, communication costs. – All these are important things; this is summarized, and Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is third in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This shows that Austria is on its way up, and you should be glad to see if you are a government party or an opposition party. Other important indicators are: What is Austria's view of economic growth, the unemployment rate, the investment rate and the deficit ratio? Economic growth, ten-year comparison: Austria averages 2.0 percent, Germany 1.3 percent, EU 1.8 percent, so we are better. Unemployment rate, five-year comparison: Austria averages 4.3 percent, Germany 8.5 percent, EU 8.8 percent. Investment ratio: Austria 21.8 percent, Germany 17.4 percent, EU 19.5 percent. You will notice: Austria is always the top! Deficit ratio to mention this indicator, the average of five years: Austria 1.0 percent, Germany 2.7 percent, EU 1.8 percent. So a really good balance we can make here. It also has an impact in an international study on the economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] There have been 60 regions - international, not only in Europe - and among these 60 regions, Mr Eder, whether you want it or not, Austria is back from 2005 to 2006 from 17 to 13. Slipping forward space. You have to know that the US is leading this list, but Austria is on the 13th. Place very well, in front of Great Britain, place 21, in front of Germany, place 26, in front of France, place 28; Bavaria, for example, is in 16th place. It is worth noting that in recent years we have been able to overtake some interesting countries and regions in the ranking of these 60 countries that have been rated, namely Sweden, now in place 14, Holland, place 15, Taiwan, place 18, New Zealand, place 22. That is, Austria's values are all around positive, whether it is international statistical comparisons or internal ones. Internally, the Austrian entrepreneurs were also questioned. This is important to me as an economic operator, who knows that the population is doing well if the economy is doing well. If people have jobs when there are jobs, then prosperity is possible. 91 per cent of entrepreneurs in Austria – 91 per cent, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – currently consider the location conditions to be very positive. 91 percent, you have to give it to yourself first! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] 58 percent say that they will recruit additional employees in the coming year – a look into the future. 54 percent are very pleased with the economic situation. As a result: 55 percent mention better business and want to invest more in the future. So we have a good starting position. To sum up, you can say: Austria has higher economic growth in international comparison than the EU, Austria has a lower unemployment rate than the EU, Austria has a higher investment rate than the EU average, and Austria has a lower deficit than the EU average. Conclusion: Austria is fine! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Now perhaps a few more examples of investment. The Federal Chancellor has announced whether the infrastructure investment will become as dramatic as he has formulated it, I do not know – dramatically more than before, that already, otherwise not dramatic, because people have already become accustomed to the fact that more investment is being made in the important infrastructure development. Investments in the road 2000 to 2005... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] These are naked numbers that sometimes hurt, I know, Mr Matznetter. Nude numbers sometimes hurt because they're true. Investments in the road from 2000 to 2005: € 4.9 billion; over the next five years, up to 2010: €7.35 billion. This is the triple per year of what was invested before 2000. That hurts you, I know. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] By the way, the investments are well distributed: There is the second tube of the Pfändertunnel in Vorarlberg as well as the A 5 North motorway, the South motorway and various other measures in Austria. But let's go to the rail: Investments 2000 to 2004: €5.9 billion; €8.55 billion is planned for 2005 to 2010. Compared with 1995 to 1999: € 3.7 billion. So plus 134 percent – a nice balance sheet, as I mean, in the multi-ton, in an even more investment! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me say something about research, because it is important to me: We had a research rate of 1.9 percent of GDP in 1999, you know that. [[Abg. Oellinger: Seibersdorf! Say something to Seibersdorf!]] We have undertaken to reach a research rate of 3.0 percent of GDP by 2010. Some laughed about it. According to the latest forecast, we stand at 2.43 percent in 2006. This, in turn, is a 7.9 percent plus compared to the previous year, and that is in figures expressed as €6.24 billion spent in Austria in 2006. [[Abg. Olympians: Say something to the Count of the Lord and to his citizens. The top researchers of Seibersdorf!]] Wherever I am, I have called these numbers, I have gained respect for the intensity with which Austria is now dedicated to research and development, because it is obvious that Austria has recognized that the music of the future is. This is policy for the future, and that is under the heading of our policy, which you do not understand, which you have to answer to the politics of the past. That's clear to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Allow me today to say: It was at the beginning of 2000, when Austria had the highest debt ratio when Austria had the highest tax and tax ratio, when Austria had the highest deficit, the highest deficit - and now Austria is very, very well there in all these areas, compared to earlier and above all in international comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true what you're saying!]] Austria is better than ever, and you should also be happy about it – we are very pleased. [[Abg. Oils: That's how you look!]] I think if we take stock today, we can rightly say that Black-Orange has done good work for red-and-white red. That's why I think we can be very positive on the 1st. October Look and say: We look forward to this day, Austria will honor this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12142	Mr Spindelegger spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12192	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Election times are times of distinction, and there each party calls the points which are particularly important to it. If we are now recapitulating what the parties have said, I am particularly reminded by Mr Cap, who, in his “impressive speech” actually, was concerned with the fact that the ÖVP is behind the German Chancellor that the Federal Chancellor is clearly the number one that he is valued nationally and internationally. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank you, Wolfgang, for standing behind us!]] [[Further "Thank you" call at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I understand, Mr Cap, that you are criticising this, because when you got there and your eyes so turned into the first row, you have remained on your party president Alfred Gusenbauer, and there have She thought – it's a time of distinction –: How happy would I be if all cheered up and got up once Alfred spoke Gusenbauer?- Oh, my God! But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you really have to work up this cast builder complex in your group. In any case, this has nothing to do with a balance sheet and the prospects for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! What matters to us in the first place – and as an employee representative I can say: also for the future – is that jobs in Austria remain safe. [[Abg. Parnigoni: There they have to be safe first so that they can stay safe!]] We have done a great deal for this in the last four years. Remember that in these four years – despite the difficult economic situation – we decided on economic recovery packages and made a tax reform. In these four years there have been so many training measures in the area of labour market service, so that we are prepared especially in the new professions such as the care professions, which are health professionals for the new labour market. I am pleased that the balance sheet is today: 124 000 new jobs, 7 per cent reduction in unemployment, so that we are on our way back to full employment. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true! Always the same leader!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because it's always right!]] I'm glad to be an employee's representative. And that is important, as I mean, also for Austria and for the future, because the people who work and work hard should also be sure that their jobs will be preserved in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Times of election debate are times of distinction. It is also a question of the content, which values you would like to underline quite consciously. Today, there has been such a discussion of values in approaches to family policy. I can tell you clearly: While you are constantly thinking about the Greens and holding seminars on what family is, we have done something for the family, and a lot! In these years there was not only a child care allowance, since not only was the karenz period extended to two years, but in these years the families were also relieved, just as in the context of the tax reform. I should like to point out: In these years, parental leave has been established as a legal claim, and in these years pensionable periods have been extended for women's child rearing. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to say: For families as much has happened in these four years as never before. This is the very good balance we can draw. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would also like to say that: We are very proud that all mothers receive the childcare allowance. There are 120 000 women today who benefit from this childcare allowance; almost 50,000 more. The fact that we have created this claim for all mothers is also evidence of the appreciation we offer to children and to child rearing. This is a value to which we stand very special by the Austrian People's Party. And I would also like to say for the future that our programmatics towards the relief of families, towards assistance to families and also the appreciation of families will continue to exist in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the third distinguishing feature, I can address the question of security. I welcome all the federal soldiers here at the gallery, it is the soldiers of our army who are responsible for the security of our country. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In these four years, we have also set clear signs on security issues: Protection of the population from crime and at the same time clear rules on foreign policy. We also distinguish ourselves from you: The Greens want a foreign-clean policy, and at SPÖ it is so that it cannot be strict enough for Mr Darabos, and the others... – Yes, a zigzag course is that! [[Call the ÖVP:Zickzack!]] You really don't know what you really want from the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] What we want are clear rules. Whoever is in Austria must comply with our rules and laws – and he must also learn German. We have therefore created a new foreign law which clearly sets out these rules. We have created a new asylum law that has led to fewer asylum seekers, as well as a new right of citizenship, because we want Austria to stay alive for Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12361	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12382	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is, I think, good that the end of the government bowl is in view, and this has also shown the debate today, ladies and gentlemen, because this self-congratulation from the government bank, the people are already full of the government representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No false hopes!]] In fact, people would have expected a little self-criticism on your part, because of all that you are talking about here, the majority of people feel nothing. And the unfortunate thing is that you don't care. They don't care how the average easterner is, what he feels, and how the real life situation is. We have seen this clearly in the last three days: They make a segregated policy and are responsible for the social situation in Austria. That's the balance of your government! There are countless reasons – we have heard many today – why this government should not be elected anymore. And I would like to give you three more reasons today – because I really think it is the most essential and because they have so much to do with people's lives – why you are responsible for the social situation and should therefore be chosen. Ladies and gentlemen! The first reason: They are responsible for the fact that Austria is faced with unemployment and youth unemployment that has never existed in that country! They are responsible for the fact that 50,000 young people do not find a job. Under your government responsibility, youth unemployment has increased by 85 percent. This is your balance sheet for which you should be ashamed today and why you should take this speaker's seat with self-criticalness. And, Federal Chancellor, you're right in the back of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are responsible for the fact that over the last six years, 100 000 people have lost their jobs in Austria, and 100 000 have no more jobs in Austria. And you, Federal Chancellor, say that's great. – After this is really “great” when youth unemployment has increased by 85 percent and unemployment has reached the record of the Second Republic. This is really “great”, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have always made a lot of promises. They have promised to reduce unemployment – but it has risen! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Lens: This is the untruth!]] We have fewer full-time jobs in Austria today! That's what you have to answer! I have a quote here, what you promised, Mr Bundeskanzler, namely: You said not a youth who wants to be afraid that he won't be taught. – Nothing of that is true! 50,000 are on the street and have no job. Your promises are not worth anything at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They say one thing and do the other. Promise and broken – this is your leitmotiv, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I promise you that we will focus on combating unemployment, especially youth unemployment. We will ensure that there is an apprenticeship training fund, that there is over-company teaching workshops, that there is an active labour market policy again, because we do not care if thousands of people are on the streets, deprived of their future opportunities and have no job. [[Abg. Head: You will abolish the dual training, and, and, and! We won't let that happen.]] That is why we will do what you have failed to do, namely to pursue an active labour market policy and to combat unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, second example: They are responsible for the fact that Austria has gone step by step towards two-class medicine in the last six years. You have made sure that... – I would like to give you an example: [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The prescription fee has been increased four times in your time of government. [[Abg. Head: Who put it in?]] Self retention for glasses has been increased by 256 percent. They have introduced ambulance charges, an accident pension tax. That is no longer the reason why the Constitutional Court has tipped it again. This is your health policy towards two-class medicine. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] On the other hand, we will ensure that there is a health system again, which can all afford, regardless of their income, and which is funded in solidarity. This distinguishes us from you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the third point for which you are responsible is that the pensions have been reduced six times that the future pensioners will have to take 30 percent pension loss that – Dr. Gusenbauer did it – someone who has 700 € pension has lost 50 € per month due to your bad policy. [[Abg. Dr. Regler: Who? Six times?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly that panic! - Panic!]] But you, Federal Chancellor, promised before the elections that there will be no pension reductions! They said – before the election –: A courageous pension reform has succeeded in securing pensions. – However, you have shortened the pensions! They did not give people the share of this rich land in its prosperity that they deserved! And that's why you'll be on 1st. October selected!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12605	Mrs Bleckmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12626	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Fathers. The clubman of the SPÖ has said – and this has threatened us now also by the colleague Bures – that you will be the SPÖ if you have the opportunity to do everything better. If you remember the election campaign in the Styria, then you will know that there was exactly the same slogan everything else, everything better!, or: [[Abg. Eder: How much did you get, BZÖ?]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Much else, much better! – Well, you remember this slogan, because you want to imitate it by doing something, much or whatever. I can only tell you: What your SPÖ head of state Voves has done better, we can track this in the media and also in all the occupations that are carried out in the country, because the first steps the SPÖ has taken in the country with your head of state were to occupy all posts, all positions new with red, with SPÖ representatives. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: Take a look at the mirror yourself!]] That's what you did in the Styria! You have shown a power and superiority with your head of state Voves. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] - Yes, get up! But tell your head of state Voves, because what happens there is superiority and power noise par excellence. And grace Austria, when this is used throughout Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I understand that you are so excited, because even your house and farm leaf, which is certainly not a BZO or government paper, the “Falter”, has written: Gusenbauer is so far from becoming head of government as it has not been for a long time. It's too deep! – Quote ‘Falter’. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's it!]] Not from us, but from the “Falter”, your leaf, that certainly is very close to you. It is certain that with your sludge that you have, with SPÖ-ÖGB-BAWAG crisis, nothing will be better – that nothing was better and nothing would be better if you had the opportunity to change something again. [[Abg. Eder: What do you have for a share in the Steiermark?]] What would have happened if you could have done a big coalition? What would have happened six years ago? – You would have increased the debt mountain even further, because that's the only thing that comes to your mind. – We have reduced debt and consolidated the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] – Well, we've certainly reduced the debt! There you can’t shout “No, ” it is! It is a fact that the debt has been reduced! Mr Matznetter, take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] They would continue to carry on your shady structures, your self-regulatory administration, and not make reforms. – We have broken up these shady structures, implemented reforms and renewed Austria and made it competitive within the EU! We did it! You would raise as the only tax, because that's the only means you think: Tax increase so that more money is in your pocket again. – We have made two tax reforms, reduced taxes, and reduced the burden on citizens. If it had happened after you, you would have made Austria a immigration country par excellence. They would have said to everyone: Come to us! We'll give you asylum! We'll give you everything! – We have managed to make a good new asylum law and to slow down immigration. I think that was important and was very good for Austria and was very necessary! [[Abg. Riepl: That's not a good speech!]] That you do not like this speech, ladies and gentlemen on the part of the SPÖ, I know, but take note that the reforms we have made in Austria in the last six years were only possible because the BZÖ is in the government with our present representatives! Take note of this: The reforms were only possible! – With your great coalition, you would have simply continued to proporate, continued to carry on the structures that were crusaded and increased the debt mountain. That's the only thing that came to your mind. We are still standing with our priorities, always standing for it, and will stand for it, that immigration will be restricted, that we strengthen the families, because the childcare allowance has been given only because we are our representatives from the BZÖ in the government! [[Abg. Eder: Besides!]] [[Abg. Eder: You always stand by!]] That is why it has been introduced! We will make Austria's economic location even more attractive in the future – and we will not do so with the policy you are doing by giving the economy no opportunity to work, but with a further tax reform that will relieve us of workers and employers, with a small and medium-sized offensive that will further strengthen this area. – These are the priorities that are important for the future! [[Abg. Eder: They don't listen to the government bank!]] You have with your scandals at BAWAG, at the “consumer”, at the ÖGB, in the state lights, at the ARBÖ – it’s a long list! – showed that you can't operate and that you can't run a state like that. Citizens have to decide Do you want to raise a party that is unable to operate, which is not in the hands of anyone else, than to raise taxes, or do you want a party that stands for reforms to strengthen families and relieve businesses? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] You won't have the choice, but the citizens have the choice! [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12832	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e12877	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! May I ask you briefly to recall with me a few years ago, in the year 2002. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't want anything in common with you!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Yes: We don't want anything in common with you!]] There was a German chancellor bowl in a situation similar to now – before the election – who said: We finance the interception hunters with an economic platform; that doesn't cost taxpayers a single cent! – At that time there was also a party leader Jörg Haider, who had posterted: Take-off hunters? Not with us! – As promised, so broken!, you can only say. [[Abg. Scheibner:... head of the party?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: Let us stay in 2002 very briefly. The absurdity of this situation must be reflected again: There was a Jörg Haider, a simple party member, who in that case did not press the button for his sluggish seat in the Porsche, but he pressed the button and immediately pushed the entire government! Yes, it was Jörg Haider, and no one else – together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – could be said at most – who split this government. [[Abg. Scheibner: There were a few more!]] There were a few more, you're right. [[Abg. Scheibner: There were others there too!]] And there were a few who said: With this Jörg Haider never again! – These were Riess-Passer, Grasser, Westenthaler. Now, in 2006, who finds themselves united, reconciles again? [[Abg. Scheibner: It's beautiful! That's nice when you get back to you!]] There has been “nothing,” “only”: a government has been sprung up and political enmity has been established, but one finds itself, because in all these years it is only about one thing: a few seats, a few more posts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Please be glad!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you also have content?]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eder.]] You held them together! [[Call to the Freeman – BZÖ:Your hatred policy!]] They have sticked to the armchairs – and nothing else was responsible for [[Abg. Scheibner: Your seat is very worrying!]] You're still in this government. And for this too, Mr. Haider is ready to form a common government with Mr. Westenthal, with whom Mr. Grasser – because of which he disputed – has formed himself. [[Abg. Neudeck: Once the Green Content also had!]] And what's the sharpest thing – that nobody else in this country packs: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Oillingers alone at home’!]] To act as if he were the bearer of the state and the BZÖ and his husbands the state bearers in the Republic. [[Abg. Neudeck: Women!]] [[Further calls to the liberals – BZÖ:Women!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Gender, please!]] That is what you believe, on your leave, really nobody, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Klubobmann Molterer told us that Austria was in good hands with German Chancellor Schüssel. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is! Oh, sure! Finally got it!]] – I would accentuate it a little bit differently: Federal Chancellor Schüssel and the ÖVP have the country firmly in hand – yes, then it is true! – so firmly that you could almost speak of a stranglehold. Look Just once, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, what you have colored, recolored, with mail chess, with privileges, with inflatation of equipment: ORF, ÖBB, ÖIAG, Austria Economic Service, Seibersdorf – there are the citizens inside, who sit with the dirt, the ones who like to maim themselves and voluntarily –, Court of Auditors, Social Security! One body around the other was created in addition. In the ÖBB there are now dozens of Supervisory Boards and dozens of Executive Board members instead of a few Supervisory Boards and Board members! You changed the main association – you then had to reorganize it, because the Constitutional Court has said it is unconstitutional. Hundreds of millions of € have been thrown out to send managers to pension because they didn't have the color that suit you, and so on. It was very expensive what you had to do with this country. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Ellwall.]] These conversions alone cost taxpayers a lot, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is a beautiful country – yes, we agree. Austria is a rich country – yes, we agree. But the problem is: Not all have something of wealth in this country. Some can't afford that! And for that, ladies and gentlemen, you too have a grumpy level of co-responsibility: that nothing has gone on, although it is so beautiful in the government program inside, what you will do, and that people still don't have a lavish 1 000 € gross per month! – The government programme contains all that you want to achieve with the social partners. What did you do? – Nothing you have done to make people actually earn €1,000 for 40, 50 or 60 hours of work! You also bear the responsibility for this! Second point: Come now They say that 124 000 jobs have been created. Yesterday, there were 120 000 jobs! – From day to day you create 4,000 jobs?- Oh, my God! Explain You've got someone to do this! It's both wrong. You have not created jobs, you have created unemployment! There have been around 50,000 unemployed people in that country since 2000! [[Abg. Head: About 200,000 more employees!]] And for that, you have the responsibility, and that is why you also belong selected!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13153	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13174	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciative Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Riepl: Have you joined?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Not over lunch break!]] I think the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have clearly stated that Austria is on a successful course. [[Abg. Oillinger: Explain your relationship with the shark! Did you join again?]] This, Mr Oellinger, is, in the first place, the merit of a very talented, a diligent Austrian population, the workers, the merit of skilled entrepreneurs. But this is also the merit of a federal government that has understood how to shape framework conditions in such a way that Austria is today one of the real top locations in Europe. [[Abg. Bures: No, unfortunately not!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's so simple! ...the one time!]] And there you can be proud that we have succeeded, and together we have succeeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is the big one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, because the election is at the door and is being taken stock, you can naturally go here, as has unfortunately happened today, and say: Party-politically, we're abusing all of this! – The election campaign is in the foreground, and that is why party politics is in the foreground, and we can no longer see the successes that we have achieved together in our country. I have to say honestly, I am sorry because I wish that there was also a policy on matters today that there is a competition of ideas today that it is possible to discuss it in a high house: [[Abg. Oils: “Yes! ”]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You are predestined for it!]] What are the data and the facts? And you know it very well when you look at it: What do the international organizations say about Austria? How has Austria developed over the last six years? – Look Get in touch with the OECD's reports! Look The International Monetary Fund's reports! Look The European Central Bank's reports! Look Analyses of the European Commission! – Everyone says Austria has developed very well compared with the other 24 member countries of the European Union! Look at international media! – You know the media reports. We don't even need to stay in Austria, we don't need to praise ourselves – I told you yesterday in Parliament's debate: whether this is the "star" in Germany, which says: “Why Austria is the top”; whether this is the “Focus” that says: “Felix Austria” – happy Austria; whether you’re reading the Financial Times, whether you’re reading the “Handelsblatt” or whether you’re reading “Die Welt” or whether you’re reading the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”. And you should admit that, I think, but also! Not because you have to praise a federal government – it is already clear to us that there is this dispute, and we also thank ourselves for a critical question, and we also want to conduct this dialogue, which of course belongs to it. But I think if a federal government stands here, it says: Of course, we didn't make everything perfect! And when a chancellor says: Yes, it has not succeeded! but we should be able to agree, ladies and gentlemen, and say: Some things have succeeded in really good work for Austria! [[Abg. Neugebauer: A lot!]] Much has succeeded in good work for Austria! [[Abg. Oils: What?]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Listen!]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, that's why we say: In view of this success, we must not become complacent for our country and for the people of our country. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... complacent!]] We must not turn back. We must not be satisfied and say: Wonderful, everything reaches!, but we know: The balance sheet is important! We know: The past is important! But you can trust this federal government that we know: The future is even more important! And we have a mission to do something together for our country here. That is why, I believe, it is also important for the people to be told what they can expect from a government led by a Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. The population can expect, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue to be able to implement a stability-oriented fiscal policy in the future, to pursue a sound fiscal policy. The population can expect us to achieve a balanced budget again in 2008 to achieve a zero deficit, that we will succeed in further reducing public debt, as measured by the value added in our country, because solid state finances are simply the basic condition for us to continue to discharge in our country. And you know exactly – those who said that the population is not important to us –: At least on this issue we should be able to have a consensus that we all want to achieve the best for the population and for the country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And then you should also be able to admit that with this tax reform, with the redundancies, especially in small and medium-sized incomes, we were able to implement very, very clear redundancies – thank God! – and we succeeded in the fact that 2 550 000 Austrians with the smallest incomes no longer pay wage and income tax. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Because they deserve so little!]] The population knows and can expect us to set the absolute priorities where it is about working together with the economy and about reducing unemployment. This is an absolute priority for this federal government, after we have made the turn this year, to continue to do everything we can to reduce unemployment in Austria – because we have to give existence because we have to give security because we have to give perspective to the population! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, of course you also question self-critical: Is it the right way? Is there a countermodel? – In all the discussions we have held during this legislative period, I must say to you: What I haven't discovered is a countermodel. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Economic concept Matznetter! Economic concept Matznetter!]] What I haven't discovered is a conception, is a program where I would say: There is someone able to make it fundamentally different, there is someone able to make it better! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] And that's why I think: It is the right way for Austria! . I thank you for your cooperation, for the critical discussions that we have been able to hold together, and I hope that the Austrian people will support this good and right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13431	Mr Grossruck, if you play with your camera, see that he's not going, please! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13461	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, let me say: I am very glad that today's parliamentary debate is being broadcast on television. That's where the In addition to making a very beautiful picture – a picture about the acting persons, about statements, programs, goals. The television viewer can also discover completely new facets of personalities. I admit that I too have been able to get to know a new facet today, by Dr. Gusenbauer. – Awareness Facets of his personality have so far been publicly known: The fact that he kissed the ground in Moscow years ago is nothing new. The fact that he started with champagne for the sanctions against Austria is known. [[Call the ÖVP: For the sanctions!]] But what was not known was: how Dr. Gusenbauer gives a speech in a SPÖ section hall, ladies and gentlemen – because his speech here in the House today was an excellent speech for a SPÖ section, but no speech for the House, she did not contain any constructive proposal! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] No constructive proposal, ladies and gentlemen, but only: All that comes from the government is bad! – Something like this may appeal to you under the guise of a SPÖ section, but certainly not here in the House! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's unworthy! – That’s unworthy!]] Let me also say one thing – I said it yesterday in the economic debate –: For me today was once again stunning that reds can paint so intensely blacks! That's really incredible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr. Dr. Matznetter! I'll give you the right to: If you make a current account of the government, it is always difficult to do it yourself. There's always the suspicion that they're better represented than they are. Then there are words like “cooks of incense. ” [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I say, the most honest thing is likely to happen when you look at yourself: How do others see us? I may only read three quotations to you, which you already know from the SPÖ, but which I would like to read to you again. [[Abg. Gradwelt: You already read them!]] For example, the Swiss “Suntagszeitung” writes: “Austria – an example for Switzerland? Austria’s success has two reasons: its accession to the EU and its coalition.” Then it goes on to say: “It is important that Austria has modernised rapidly.” The German “manager magazine” wrote as a headline: “Austria – the better Germany.” “Whether growth, investment, employment or state finance, Austria has the better figures.” And the highlight was undoubtedly what the viewed newspaper “Die Welt” in Hamburg wrote a few weeks ago: “Year ago, the EU saw the Alpine Republic on the brink of the abyss. – Today the country stands better than its neighbours.” Austria’s success is called Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! None of the government's fractions could better formulate it: Austria's success is called Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Eder.]] I am convinced that the voters will say: We want to achieve this success for the next few years. And we are very optimistic, what the 1. October. We are very optimistic because the comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For example, what does the Vienna Commercial Court say? – You have initiated this, Mr Cap. What does the Vienna Commercial Court say about the economic policy of the Gusenbauer-SPÖ? - She says: The statement that "the Gusenbauer-SPÖ cannot operate" is legitimate because it can be supported by data and facts. - You initiated that. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The economic policy of the Gusenbauer SPÖ says or shows that it cannot operate. A very nice statement of the Vienna Commercial Court. Or do we make a very simple comparison, ladies and gentlemen. And politics means yes – Michael Spindelegger said it: This is especially true in one election year – to compare. The Minister of Finance repeatedly says in budget speeches: What makes us sure is the comparison. Quite a primitive comparison: Dr. Matznetter, what can you do with €3 billion? – One can reduce taxes by €3 billion, with the result that 2.5 million Austrians, who are in themselves taxable, no longer pay taxes, namely 42 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] But you can just as well reduce €3 billion with speculations in the Caribbean, ladies and gentlemen. - A comparison that makes us sure. In both cases, the question is: What can you do with €3 billion? Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what makes this government so strong is the principles that the government is guiding in its policy. There is the first principle: [[Abg. Eder: More stupid on TV!]] We bear the main political responsibility – the government and the government groups. Second principle: We act according to best knowledge and conscience. Third principle: We are convinced that the reforms we have implemented are necessary for the future of this country. Therefore, fourth point: This way we go even if the next day we may miss a boulevard newspaper a negative headline. Ladies and gentlemen! This is policy for the future, that is politics as I imagine it – politics as a future design! We will continue this successful path, ladies and gentlemen, because Austria's success is also called Wolfgang Schüssel in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13600	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13622	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Many talk, as always – little say, as always, and then still immeasurable, Mr. Cot stupid! ==References====External links== May 1945, the day of fascism liberation, did you want to tell us? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Did you tell us that was something that Dr. Gusenbauer shouldn't have done? [[Abg. Neudeck: Please!]] This comparison is really immense – be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only what I and the listeners and the people on the televisions are so aware of. [[Abg. Neudeck: You haven't heard anything again!]] All people are now aware that this policy is far from true, ladies and gentlemen. Their “All is super” and “we are the best” humanity has nothing to do with the reality of life of the people in Austria. [[Abg. Neudeck: We just need to be better than you! It's not hard!]] They don't live this life like you're quelling it to them. They've been through this for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. This contradiction between your beautiful words and the unachieved deeds – you really haven't achieved as much as you have given us today – all of them feel that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (showing towards SPÖ) Say it over there!]] And I'll tell you one thing: Believeworthy politicians must also keep what they promise. The Federal Chancellor has promised the pensioners that they will not intervene in their pensions. But what has become of it? – 5 to 10 percent loss of purchase for pensioners, because the pensions have never been adjusted, just as it would have been, ladies and gentlemen. 5 to 10 percent sales loss! [[Abg. Ellmauer: 19 annual amounts of the BAWAG in the Caribbean sunk!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. My mother-in-law and my mother-in-law, long ago in retirement, both widows, had no easy life – this is exactly what they feel! They feel this policy and with them many Austrians. With these pensions with this sluggish devaluation you have introduced, it is over, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Lentsch: You are talking about Albania and not Austria!]] You don't like to hear this, because as prices rise, we will increase pensions. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We guarantee that the pensions will be adjusted once a year. Yeah, we'll raise them. [[Abg. Wheeler: What?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Oh, that hurts, it hurts. [[Abg. Lentsch: That's funny what you mean!]] You promised a lot, didn't keep it. Among other things, you have also promised a modern family law. But a stock-conservative and old-fashioned ÖVP – Michael Völker of the “standard” has said this, I think – under the leadership of this Federal Chancellor, the ideas of a more advanced minister also erased from the table. Also, the ideas of the Federal Minister Gastinger were not implemented because you want a black future for Austria's families, because your family image and that of the families in Austria really are very far apart. [[Abg. Großruck:... has been implemented!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A more active family policy than that of Minister Gastinger cannot be pursued! You can see that!]] I guarantee you: With the SPÖ there is more security, there are more rights for families, because we understand something more under family than you. We understand among them communities of life, we understand alone, we understand patchwork families – just as they are sitting here in the house, not only one probably, but also several. [[Abg. Big Truck: Penthouse Families, Not Patchwork Families!]] And they also need more security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An example – I could tell a lot – was recently in the newspapers, namely the law: Right to part-time work. [[Abg. Wheeler: Where?]] This has become quite toothless, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Now, two years after the decision, it shows that it has many vices and many gaps. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Yes, you can laugh when a young mother is forced by her employer, for example, that she cannot assert her right to part-time work because he wants to prescribe to her that she has to come in the afternoon and perhaps bring her little children into work. [[Abg. Head: You don't want part time at all! What now?]] How can she use this right if you have not made it possible, Mr Grossruck? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You understand that under black laws, that's great! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We'll improve the law. We will make a labour market policy, my dear... – Wait! [[Abg. Großruck: You will never get into embarrassment!]] We will improve this law of part-time work and the right to do so, and we will reduce part-time work! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let me talk to you! We will create full-time jobs for women, which is certainly clear. Why are you so nervous? Are you afraid of that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We take women seriously – unlike you. I think that's particularly objectionable that they don't. We will support women who want to continue training, we will support women who want to start businesses with €100 million, because it is important to us. [[Abg. Grossruck: BAWAG-Gelder!]] It is not important to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: There are two ways of making politics in the future: sitting in an ivory tower, at the top, looking down at the people, very lonely – or, together with all, making a stable policy possible, a social-democratic policy. [[Abg. Lentic: Penthouse!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13957	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e13979	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you have somewhat confused: The ivory tower above which you spoke is the penthouse of Mr Fritz Vergestnich – that's €3 billion. 3 billion € that the BAWAG, the ÖGB and the SPÖ have sunk in the sand of the Caribbean! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] And with this €3 billion... – I don't care at all! –... we could have created 200 000 full-time jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Watch out!]] 200 000 jobs! We would have been full employment if your Mr Fritz Verzetznich, your Mr. Elsner, your Mr. Flöttl, and as they all are called, were honorable people, just like these ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You know, it doesn't really make sense to address your speech, because I assume that the last television viewers who have been watching have also turned off. That is to say, the future debate will take place without the public, because, after this contribution, no one can leave the television on. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since 11 a.m., you have shuddered from the SPÖ and from the Greens from the speaker's desk, wailed this country sick and only operate negative propaganda. If today someone from abroad happened to come to us on vacation, turned on the TV in the hotel and heard these speeches, then he had to believe that we were living here in a banana republic. - That's great! Make You're not always so bad about our country! We have a good country, it stands well, and “debt” to it is this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the Greens: Blame it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! That you laugh shows me that you know I'm right. In reality, this bourgeois government has no way to go. But I want to talk about it – that seems important to me, especially since so far all the speakers have worked on what has been good, so that I don't have to deal with it – think about the future, talk about it: What do we want to change everything in the future? What do we want after the 1st century? Are you still doing better on October? There's still a lot to do. We must keep this great place, that is, we must set additional milestones in social policy. I am thinking, for example, of the initiative we started in Carinthia. We decided in Carinthia a mother's money. There are more than 160 000 women in Austria who do not have their own pension, do not have to have their own pension schemes and actually need to be better provided. [[Abg. Oils: Government programme!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This mother money... – Mr Wittmann, wait a moment! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Why didn't you do it?]] You do not need to call out this, because it is likely, as a result of the surveys, that this will be your last parliamentary days. Mr Wittmann, this mother money was decided in Carinthia! [[Abg. Mandak: 150 € maximum!]] And do you know what the fascinating thing about it is? – The Social Democratic Party in Carinthia did not vote in favour. Mrs. Schaunig-Candut did not vote in favour! The BZÖ and the ÖVP have decided on a mother's fee, decided on a school start-up fee, and decided on a baby's allowance. [[Abg. Mandak: 150 € maximum!]] – Is there nothing 150 €? [[Abg. Mandak: Not for existence!]] Mrs Mandak, you say here with arrogance and arrogance that 150 € are nothing! – 150 € as a start is better than nothing, that is beyond doubt. [[Abg. Mandak: Do you live from 150 € per month?]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Also in security policy, this government under our leadership will in future ensure that we take better care of our people, that we see even more that those people who come to Austria, because they need asylum, get it and those people who are unjust and here as illegals who have become criminal are sent back. - It's no different. The shirt will be closer to us than the skirt. The infrastructure: Hubert Gorbach has demonstrated in recent years that infrastructure can not only revive the economy but also create jobs. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, in his ministry!]] Never before has so much been built. Something is happening in Austria! The railway is being expanded, the road is being expanded, the infrastructure is being expanded. [[Abg. Oillinger: The ministerial office is being expanded!]] Jobs are created. Drive through the country with open eyes! Look at where the building cranes stand, where the people work, where we provide employment, where we contribute that people have work! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] – This social peace will not be made bad by your illness. We'll continue – continue to cry!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14171	Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14194	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to thank Mr Scheuch of the BZÖ. They were now the first of the government groups to admit that there are 160 000 people, namely women living in poverty. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We will help them!]] They all the time claim from the government parties that this does not happen that Austria is great, that Austria is doing well. You, Mr Scheuch, were the first to admit: There's a problem! – So, thank you! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We will solve that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is true is that Austria is a very rich country – that is what the German Chancellor and colleague Molterer said again today – which is the fourth-richest country in the EU, probably one of the richest countries in the world at all. But if you say – and this is obviously one of your great campaign slogans, which will now blaze down on us in the next few weeks until they come out of our ears: Austria is fine!, then I ask you what Austria you are talking about. [[Abg. Murauer: Austria!]] Of what Mr Scheuch has just mentioned, of the 160 000 women, pensioners who should be pensioners, but do not receive pensions? Are you talking about the 500 000 people who live in fortified poverty or perhaps of the 1 million people who live on the poverty line, at least now, who can be called poor? The interesting thing is that you have included in your government agreement that you want to introduce old-age pensions for those who have not yet been entitled, for example, these 160 000 women. Yeah, what did you do? – You didn’t introduce it, you didn’t do what you had in your own government agreement because it didn’t Your priority is to help those who are really poor! [[Abg. Großruck: Pensions are child rearing times!]] They say: Austria is fine! I ask you: Which Austria are you talking about? Are you talking about the approximately 15,000 to 18,000 students per year who cannot read enough? Are you talking about migrants who are afraid of deportation, or are you talking about the companies that have become insolvent in the past year – more than 3,000, of which 1 277 are individual companies? Is that not Austria, or how do you see it when you say: Austria is fine! Do you want to say that everyone's doing well? Obviously, Austria is only a part for you – and for this part you make politics. Thank you for this confession. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you wanted to do politics for the other part of Austria, which I have just talked about, for example, would be a good opportunity to think about the distribution of taxes. You always jump on that when I'm talking about taxes because that's such a great topic. I think you should think about why in Austria we have a very low tax revenue, for example, from property-related taxes, and that we are constantly missing money, as you say – for example, in the educational field or in the closing of the barn between the poor and the rich. That's what you're saying. We're missing money. – That’s an argument I’ve heard in the last four years – I don’t know how often –: There's no money for that. Why – I ask you – do you not even know that Austria is third in the OECD and last in the EU as far as the income of capital taxes is concerned? In Austria it is 0.6 percent of GDP, in the EU section – if I have it right now – at 1.9 percent and in the OECD section at 2.1 percent. [[Interlocutory calls at the ÖVP as well as representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] - Listen to me! The slow, medium-term increase in EU level – at EU level, no more, so nothing with competition, problem and so on – would bring us €3.5 billion, which we could use very well for precisely these issues in the field of education, research, poverty reduction and also in the energy transition. [[Recent calls to the ÖVP as well as to representatives of the liberals – BZÖ]] But you don't want it! Your credo is: less taxes, down with taxes, no government revenue – and therefore unfortunately no support for the other part in Austria, which is poor. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14308	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14329	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to have the facts spoken in my report, not parts of Austria – and that is what has been done in recent years for this country and for people in great social responsibility. We have acted in great social responsibility, especially for generations, and have tried to achieve a very balanced balance between young people and older people. We have strengthened families, especially in the knowledge that families are a very emotional relationship network and a very important social security network. We have thus also safeguarded the opportunities for all children, because we have fixed our services in the family area to the children and put the children in the focus. [[Abg. Mandak: But not for all children!]] I very much regret that we now have some kind of ideological discussion about the form of the family. I believe that the decision on the form of the family is taken by everyone, and that freedom of choice cannot be given to policy. Therefore, families in their most diverse forms are worth the same. I am very glad that my colleague, Mr Gastinger, has taken the right course in the new family law, in order to present the situation of the patchwork families and also to give children – here I come back to the children – an added value of that social parent who is concerned about this child without limiting the responsibility for the physical parents. [[Abg. Mandak: But the government does not agree!]] I think that's very, very important. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I also do not want to be left unmentioned – because I am at the centre of justice – that we have done a lot in the area of improved victim protection, which was also very important to me as a social minister, as well as the anti-talking law, a law specifically for women who had never been established in the past. But I would also like to point out the provision of patients, which allows for greater freedom of choice and greater legal certainty for patients and doctors. All these are social, responsible things that we have implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! With the extensive financial services for the families – they have already been mentioned: from the success model of the childcare allowance for more than 160,000 parents currently, the benefits for the families that have been improved, to a first major tax relief of € 250 million for the families – we have invested very long-term in the families and thus in the future of the children. However, we have also given space to the family-friendly working world through new partnerships. We have taken the right path through parental leave and also through additional financial means for childcare. Similarly, the role of fathers, in the sense of positive development also for children, is more taken into account in the field of social interest. Although the figures are not as satisfactory as the increase in the share of fathers has reached, they have increased since 1999 from under 1 percent to almost 4 percent. The fact that we are right with these measures also shows the upward trend in births – at present 1.59 – at the same time as the increasing participation of women. We are also above the European average. In addition to the targeted employment offensive for young people – which has already been addressed today – we have also made it our goal to strengthen the voluntary work and active citizenship of young people in order to motivate them. In my opinion, by what we decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers, namely an additional bonus for young people who make a voluntary social service year, we are sending the right signal for orientation and commitment in this area. I think the next step must be that this year also receives recognition as an educational year for the care professions. Ladies and gentlemen! The greatest challenge, however, is the active ageing and safety in old age. With the harmonisation of the different pension systems, the elimination of special pension rights where the government was able to influence flexible access to the retirement age and, above all, more fairness for people who have worked particularly hard, we set an absolute milestone in retirement provision. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Party – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I am allowed to address women at the end of the day, because so much has been said about the self-sufficiency of women. [[Abg. Brosz: Actually not!]] [[Abg. Eder: It's over!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Look Please take the balance sheet and you will see that this government has done more for women than has happened over the past 30 years. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14444	In accordance with a presidential decision, I share the speaking time for the four political groups up to 3 p.m. and set them at 3 minutes each. Mrs Fuhrmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14496	Dear Federal Chancellor! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! This government has not only done a lot for women, but has also done a lot for young people in this country. If I stand here today and am proud to present a successful balance sheet, it is due to the fact that we do not speak the word to young people, as so many of you here, and require them to think and do what they have to do, but we bind them in and let them actively cooperate at all levels. This distinguishes us very clearly from you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have been concerned with providing young people with framework conditions that make it easier for them to cope with obstacles in their lives. This is, of course, the first thing we've been working on. If the opposition has always given great importance to looking in its formulations at the fact that “schoolers” must not lack the great I to highlight the students as far as possible, the written word is the one. But if you pay attention to what you propose and how you act, throw It all suddenly into a pot, and of differentiation is no longer a talk at all. One sees that there is a big difference between what you hold on the one hand in letters and how you act on the other. Our balance sheet – and I would also like to thank our Minister of Education – is a very clear one, because we have tried to take care of each individual youth in order to take care of each individual student and student. I would like to give a few examples of this. At the beginning, it was a matter of ensuring that a young person gets the best possible support in order to be well uplifted here in Austria even when it comes to mastering the Austrian language perfectly. Language courses have been introduced in the kindergarten and also in the public school; in addition, we have 330 teachers in order to guarantee this. If we are in teacher training, I would like to stress that we have also questioned this training. So we have converted the educational academies into educational colleges in order to ensure that first of all the quality of the school is increased and that the best teachers for our students are there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But there has also been much progress in the field of universities. There are about a fifth more students today, and at the colleges the number has doubled. That is something you cannot speak badly, because it corresponds to the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] The employment situation is also an excellent one. 35 000 new jobs were created in 2005 alone – said the main association of social security funds. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, 35 000 jobs, these are 100 jobs every 24 hours! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] You can't talk about that either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bures has said that she already knows that the EIA will be chosen. – I tell you, I do not know, because I believe that people in this country are enough to decide for themselves who are the best partners. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] It is as it is in all situations of life: If you choose the right partner, some things are easier and much more beautiful in life, and we will continue to guarantee that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14567	Mr Broukal has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14588	Mr President, thank you very much. Mrs. Fuhrmann, if you listen to me like that, you get a desire to take a little bit of a sentence in your hand, turn and turn. They took care of every student – I suppose, even every student – individually. This is how a school system looks, which releases 20 percent of children with 15 functional illiterates: They've taken care of each other individually. May be – but in what pitiful quality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: They had that in your time!]] The Minister for Finance said: Competition of ideas, we talk a little bit objectively with each other! - I'd like to grab it. PISA, Minister of Finance: first, destination in Italy; second, international investigation, which shows that Austria's school system is at best European average. Since, Minister of Finance, you could put in a little more ambition – even financial ambition! At a committee meeting in the presence of the Minister for Education, I asked how much money more than Mrs Gehrer has demanded in the last six years than you were willing to give her to the school. They taught me and told me: You determine what the school gets, not Mrs Gehrer! – Then take responsibility for one of the worst school systems in Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Anyway, I'm looking forward to the election campaign. I know, in my workplace, school and university, I only have good news to share. It's the message: Reduce the number of students to 25 per class not only in 2009, but in 2007. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is the news: as of February 2007 additional teachers where they are especially needed. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your messages are on TV...!]] It is a scandal that there are currently 18 students per class in Linz in the Pöstlingberg School, where there are zero foreigners, but in a school where there are 80 percent foreigners, there are 20 children per class. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Felzmann.]] We'll change that! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] I'm talking about Linz, Upper Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third thing is: I will promise the school sector that in the future the SPÖ will ensure that no one in this country has to buy private remedial aid, but that the follow-up to the school takes place free of charge for each student. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] I'm glad to see you again in October.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14710	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14731	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As a liberal, I look forward to autumn, because here in the House there will again be an independent liberal political force and not just a attachment to a large government party. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this will be all the more necessary than the Federal Government has failed in two crucial questions. [[Abg. Scheibner:... “Attachment”?]] That is why I am also glad that the Federal Government is no longer freer. [[Intervocations at the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The two issues in which this government has failed are immigration and the issue of acceptance and proximity to citizens within the framework of the European Union and its development. Ladies and gentlemen! On the immigration issue, we have seen an increase of the year 2000, in which we still had about 21,000 immigrants, to some 60 000 immigrants in 2005, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Three years with bush!]] Unfortunately, our attempts to intervene and improve something have failed God. That's why, dear Herbert Scheibner, I'm glad that I don't have to take responsibility with this anymore. [[Abg. Scheibner: Three years with bush!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: vote for everything!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But in the next National Council you have no vote either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the schools of Vienna, there will be 43.4 percent of students with non-German mother tongue in the school year 2005/06; in the primary schools they are already in the majority. Muslims will make up a quarter of the total population in the middle of the century, with among the 14-year-olds already the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a development negated by this Federal Government! But this is a crucial development. And if we do not get under control of this development, Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, then all your other progress you claim to have made in your time of government – in economic policy, in social policy, in science – is no longer worth it, because this society will no longer be able to build on the consensus it has today. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Did you not agree?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In European policy, it would have been an obligation for this federal government to say clearly that, if there is a new European constitution, Austrians will naturally be asked in a national referendum whether they also want this change in their federal constitution. The second point, Mr Bundeskanzler [[Abg. Neudeck: This must have been written down by Stadler!]] It would have been important for you to finally make clear to Austria within the six-month presidency that there will be no further boundless enlargement of the European Union. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is worth the signature of an officer!]] You should have put this to the fore in connection with the accession negotiations with Turkey, but also with the early accessions of Bulgaria and Romania. These are failures, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That is why I am glad that we will again be making an independent, consistent freedom policy here in autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14926	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e14947	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! At the end of the debate – at least at the end of the debate on television – I go back to the beginning. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer has repeatedly encouraged pride in Austria. The point is, Mr Molterer: One can stand to this country, one can look at many things in that country positively, without having to be proud of all that the Federal Government and the ÖVP are organizing as a policy in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, you are here in a boat with my colleague Scheuch. He also comes down here and says that any criticism that any remark is a bad thing for the country. – Whether Do you feel so comfortable arguing exactly as Mr Scheuch did and developing this climate here that it is majestic policy to deal with politics? [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I am really aware of this with oppression, because it is simply a mood that actually comes from other countries. If we look at how the mood was in the communist countries that you criticised, how the state has dealt with criticism, then I believe we have reached a point where we should be careful. It is not to be equated with criticism of situations in this country. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the question of pride is concerned, I think you too, Mr Molterer, who said that the level of pension provision in Austria has increased considerably, because many people are now using private pensions. – Now the election campaign is coming soon, and if you are going to stand up, maybe it will be like me. When people who are 20 or 25 years of age come by and they are asked how they estimate their pension prospects, they say almost comprehensively: We're not going to get a state pension anymore. – And that in one of the richest countries in the world! I'm not proud that this mood came about. There must be a different possibility of security than private pensions. The criterion that so many private provide is not a quality criterion! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Molterer, there is no need to be proud of the education policy of Minister Gehrer. One must not be proud of the fact that private after-help is booming in Austria as in hardly any other country. One must not be proud at all of the fact that in recent years, despite the overall decline in the number of students, the number of school students has increased year after year. One must not be proud that Minister of Finance Grasser Education Policy, the future of the country, is a chief saving target and this rigorously This is the first time that the Commission has You don't have to be proud at all that thousands of young people in the universities are currently sitting on admission exams and know that they won't get a place for study, although Austria has one of the lowest student rates and although it should still be the case that more places are finally provided. This play for the challenge of pride, this continuous equation “Here the country, here the ÖVP”, “The criticism of us is a criticism of Austria”: In this election campaign, we should really consider whether we want to shape policy in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15025	As a Contra-Redner, Mr Magistrate. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party How much can I set the clock to? - Please. [[Abg. May. Posch: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 5 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15062	Mr President. High house! I should be allowed to reflect a few things in a critical assessment, as this is my last speech here. I would like to point out a few things from my point of view that have moved me in the past and that I believe they are important for the future of Austria. On the one hand: I regret that there has been no solution in the Carinthian local panel issue, because the concept of the opening clause was also not in line with the permanent case law of the Constitutional Court, as the Central Association has stated, and because, in my view, there can be no solution against the ethnic group, because the majority cannot decide on minority matters. I think all Carinthians share this wish. There must therefore be a broad solution, which will be supported by all relevant groups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this respect, I also have doubts about the solution to the Carinthian question of the local board, according to the information service of Mr Landesführer, and if I also look at what solution has been sought. I should like to say to what the honourable Member Scheuch called in here yesterday, namely that he now understands why Mrs Schönig no longer poses me: I also regret, honestly, that a consistent minority-friendly and anti-racist position in the Carinthian SPÖ has no place and that, instead of holding and relevant policy, a policy based solely on power interests and opportunistic considerations, old styles are used. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP as well as a demonstration of the liberals – BZÖ.]] Secondly, Mr President Khol used to say that the truth was a daughter of time. He may be right. Sometimes it is only later that it is carried out, as has been shown in the question of the dispute with the heritage of National Socialism. There has also been collective public displacement and lookout for years before, under international pressure, one has decided to raise this question and has suffered injustices to the victims of National Socialism with National Fund, Restitution, Reconciliation Fund et cetera. Many have contributed to this, such as Klestil, Vranckky. I also do not want to give my reverence to Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel for his achievements in this context. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Austria has thereby discharged a material and legal obligation, but the ethical and moral dimension of the murder of 6 million Jews is not to be dealt with by law and also by material compensation – with material compensation, therefore, not because the uniqueness of this crime escapes from any category of thinking. Moreover, for years there has been a complete moral, social and cultural rehabilitation of Jews and other political persecutors. More serious than this material-technical side, therefore, is the mental debate because in many parts of Europe there is a continuity of xenophobic and racist thinking, which is why I believe that only critical self-reflection offers the opportunity or the opportunity to learn from past mistakes and to draw the corresponding consequences. Thirdly, I have also tried to make a modest contribution to this reflection work, and I see with little satisfaction that, after the high-flight of racist semantics in the nineties, the foreigner-popular desire and political mobilization with aggressive rhetoric, the euphoria of populist movements and the grand election of a broad disillusionment have turned away. Of course, no one is wrong, nor our own party, nor have I personally taken the truth, and no one is sure of populist simplifications and flat rhetoric. The truth is not always pleasant, but you should not make it too easy, even if it can cost you the mandate if you represent consistent, critical and unpleasant positions. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Sometimes this also leads to problems in one's own party, and sometimes one feels quite alone that one is standing alone when new language schemes and communication strategies take hold. Nevertheless, I believe it is necessary to resist, if emancipatory positions are abandoned in favour of power-political calculations and foreordaining calculations, sometimes already, in order to preserve one's own tradition, the tradition of Kreisky, who has fled from the Nazis himself and has asked for political asylum in Copenhagen, for which one must also say that no one likes to leave his home and separates himself from his family and friends, but also in the light of the tradition of Austrian aid organizations, such as Caritas, Diacony, Red Cross, People's Aid and so on. Therefore, I very much regret that the 2005 Foreign Rights Package has worsened the basis for asylum procedures, that this has been extended and is also being used more and more, with the conditions – look at this! – are sometimes worse than in criminal detention, for people who have not violated law, except perhaps to be illegally detained in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Go, please!]] That forced nutrition was carried out legally and was strongly regulated by means of implementing decree, perhaps only to prevent preventively, but nevertheless, in the event of an emergency, that the conditions for traumatisation were increased, that police powers were increased, that new criminal stocks were introduced: All this is not according to my taste, I have to say quite honestly. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Fourth: Of course, one must accept that one does not always prevail with one's opinion, although many colleagues have seen this similarly, because in the SPÖ club – and I am proud of it – there are many fundamental rights-oriented people, people who are committed to doing so, who share this opinion, even though opinion can sometimes lead to another result and can also happen that the vote results are different. But there are many dedicated young and older people, of whom I know that for them Ethos and morality are nothing pointless, but that you pay attention. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the others?]] Of course, there are such people, even if the importance of human rights issues – including in the Human Rights Committee; I also say that self-critically – is sometimes sobering. Nevertheless, I am convinced – and I believe that the task to the future is to see – that the contradictions will increase, because the question is completely open, how the balance of interests between the task of fundamental rights on the one hand and the growing surveillance on the other, and how it is about the proportionality of the resources used. It is close to demanding: even more video surveillance, even more data storage, even more grid surveillance, even more noise attack, even more advanced risk research. But you can use a more on-the-spot monitoring Get more security, and what's the price for it? What's the price for that? Can democracy and freedom be defended by cutting down the basic values, freedom of assembly, the integrity of private homes, the secrecy of letters and telecommunications? One may be on it – that is my opinion, and that is the actual task, I believe, of the future of politics in Austria – that the preventive surveillance state is not the final conclusion of wisdom and undermines all confidence in security and the integrity of a democratic and open society. Unfortunately, this line is not currently capable of majority, I have to say that unfortunately, but the truth, even if it costs its own mandate, is reasonable – to quote the great Austrian writer Ingeborg Bachmann – and not “a daughter of the time”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15151	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15172	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Bundeskanzler! Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to correct Mrs Heinsch-Hosek's speech. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why “leader ”?]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, in her speech – in response to a speech by Mr Stummvoll – said that Alfred Gusenbauer was on the 8th floor. ==References====External links== Now I have to say: Mr Gusenbauer and also the SPÖ sometimes look quite old, but not so old. That's why I'm actually correcting it. Rather, it is true that Alfred Gusenbauer launched the sanctions against Austria in Paris in spring 2000 with champagne.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15222	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Grossmann. She's got 5 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15243	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this was really a strong piece of what You've delivered here now. Something at this level has actually lost nothing in this House, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, well!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is very sad that Mr Khol is not active in that he has a very party-political presidency here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You usually get an order call for it!]] Today, the road is set free for the first time. The political future of our country can be re-decided on October. That's good. And it's really high time – that's what you have to say when you look around in your ranks – that the bourgeois mourning game is finally ended. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Only young people whose Life is likely to be most strongly influenced by political decisions, are still excluded from selecting their political representation. My colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, has talked about a lot, but unfortunately she has not mentioned that. At national and municipal level, this democratic deficit was largely eliminated and over 16-year-olds were granted the right to vote. At the federal level, however, where particularly youth relevant materials are decided, such as the principles of education policy and labour market policy, the current government fractions believe that youth is not yet mature enough for this. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who made this speech to you that you need to read it down?]] Young people meet before they reach 16 years of age. Life-year decisions of considerable scope for her further life. For example, the choice of the training or vocational course is considered. Even you can get married at the age of 16. At the age of 14, young people have already been punished, which is what those – and I look in your direction, Mr Scheibner – who vehemently oppose a reduction in the electoral age, now even want to drop by one year to 13. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all! What kind of nonsense are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] Wait for my speech! We'll see how you'll vote. [[Abg. Partik-Pablé: Read on!]] Obligations and responsibilities are very soon entrusted to young people, only in the granting of rights time is allowed. The fact that young people are very mature and interested in exercising their right to vote has proved their right to vote in the country elections in Vienna and Burgenland. A SORA study has shown very interesting results in this regard: The reduction in the electoral age is an enormous increase in the interest of politics. Young people inform themselves very consciously before the election and weigh very carefully, who really does something for them and who fails them. Some may have a very bad conscience, which for years have deprived the youth of their chances: because of the highest youth unemployment in the Second Republic, by a ballast in education, by the closure of the Jugendgerichtshof, by a missing integration policy, by cuts in youth welfare, and and so on. This scapegoat really could continue for a very long time. This is the real balance sheet – and not this “lobhudel balance” that we have heard so many times today from your ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is that your farewell speech?]] This, of course, also causes a bad conscience among those who have one, and this bad conscience should also be the reason for some to be afraid of a reduction in the electoral age. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Young people must finally be taken seriously, and they should finally be allowed to participate in the political decision-making processes. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Scheibner: For the present? How's that going? How's that going?]] Now is really the last opportunity to finally give young people the right to vote. Finally jump over your shadow and we will take advantage of this opportunity together! [[Call the liberals – BZÖ:... in the law, please!]] Now you can finally take the opportunity to do so. Now you can implement what you, Mr Scheibner, and your colleagues have announced.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15431	Mrs Grossmann's motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gusenbauer, Mr Mag. Elisabeth Grossmannand comrades regarding the reduction of the electoral age are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15486	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of a further actual correction. I would like to remind you of the provisions in this regard: Facts against facts; 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15510	Mr President. Mr. Deputy stupidly asserted – and other speakers of the ÖVP followed him – that Alfred Gusenbauer had on 8 May. In May 2000, he took part in a celebration of sanctions against Austria and at this occasion he drank champagne. - That's not true! True is rather: Alfred Gusenbauer has a celebration in Paris for the 55th anniversary. The anniversary of Europe's liberation from fascism and National Socialism took part. It is true that, unfortunately, no representative of the Austrian Federal Government was present at this celebration. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is no longer an actual correction!]] [[President Dr. Kohl gives the bell sign.]] It is true that I find it extremely unbearable to hear this bleak polemic over and over again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15582	Next speaker: Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15603	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Posch, for your words, which I will take with you, as hardly any of them in this House. I believe that it was an appeal not only for human rights and democracy, but also for upholding the free mandate and for maintaining our own free opinion here. Thank you for that! [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖs as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Molterer, you have spoken here a few hours ago, and I am very much in memory of your slogan, the tag “Look, don’t look away!”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And it's still in memory!]] That's what's happened here for years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Exactly: Look, don't look away!]] And that's exactly what I've been in here for many years, since the last elections, has always been very angry. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That we look!]] They're not looking. They keep looking away. Today I still understand a bit, this congratulation, because the end of the legislative period is approaching. But that has been the case for years, not only today. You've been doing that all the time. Since this legislative period began, the government says and tell you what's going on. And there's never the sentence that's called: We have poverty in Austria! There is poverty in Austria. In Austria, one third of single parents are at risk of poverty. There are a third of the families with three and more children in Austria, where only the man is employed, at risk of poverty. There are as many families of migrants, regardless of the number of children, at risk of poverty. In view of this, the government here on the government bank, but also you here cannot simply pretend everything is fine, as if everything were great in this country, as if everything were best in Austria. That's absolutely not it! Our understanding of policy is to look exactly at where there are deficits. Of course, we have to address these shortcomings again and again. Unfortunately, they do not address them. They don't see her, unfortunately. [[Congratulations and a call to the Greens: They don't touch them!]] It would be good if you could find out here and say that in the area of families we have the following problems: mainly poverty that we have to fight, in the field of youth we really have the big problem that many young people cannot read meaningfully. After all, this applies to every fifth student / to every fifth student. Stand by for this! And then you say, There is a need for action, and we have to do something about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] It is not good that in Austria parents need to spend 120 million € per year for additional hours. Some can afford this, but others can’t, and as a result, some children in school have far better chances than other children. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why do you find it so difficult to say the positive?]] Why don't you ever sit here and say, Yes, there is! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why do you never say: Yes, there is also something good?]] Then the political debate here in this Parliament and the political debate would be a far more differentiated one at all. We'd like to lead them. But only then will she be possible. But you unfortunately impossibility them by always spreading incense. It's really just incense that you're scattering here. Unfortunately, they do not recognize the reality of the people in Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Riepl.]] Ms Haubner said: All families are worth the same! All families are the same! – It's not like that! It is true that in Austria we have one of the highest family promotions in Europe. Great! Great! Great! [[Abg. Friend: That's right!]] I always say that. I don't like to say that's great. – Nevertheless, we need to look at: What is wrong with the system that we still have so many families in Austria living in poverty? What's wrong? That's where we have to put it and push it against it. But, unfortunately, you are not ready by the government parties. - It's us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Seniors, old people's sector, pension provision. – Mrs Rauch-Kallat owes us the long promised scientific examination of the effects of the new pension system on women to this day. I tell you, it will bring even more women into the poverty trap by this great extension of the calculation period you have made. These women will have to live in poverty, and this 150 € will not use anything, Mr Scheuch. At a pension of 400 € they make life a little easier, but also with 550 € you can't live in Austria, especially not worthy of living – I don't and not you and all the people concerned either; I can only tell you that. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But it is a first step!]] Finally, just yesterday, the government took a decision which unfortunately is a completely weakened form: Families where father and mother are not married. I blame you for dividing the families into the so-called, as you would say in Vorarlberg, belonging families who are married, and into those who are not married. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] You don't care how the children who live in these families do! You don't care! They do not receive the legal situation they urgently need. Minister Gastinger has recognized God's thanks; But they refuse to recognize reality from the ÖVP. Shame! It's time for us to finally have a say, then some things would change, I tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15785	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief statement on Mrs Grossmann's statement because, if I interpret it correctly, it would even refer to me indirectly in her motion for a resolution. - Thank you for the honor. Furthermore, you have referred to me that I am one of those who, while acting for the reduction of the age for the mouth of punishment, are also opposed to a reduction in the electoral age. Mrs Grossmann, that is wrong! I am very much in favour of the reduction of the electoral age, and I have been representing it as a youth observer since my time. We have also discussed in the Constitutional Convention that at least the first step is to reduce the electoral age to 16 years, both at local and rural level, and also to open instruments of direct democracy for 16-year-olds, in order to generally reduce the electoral age in a second step. There are different opinions, including in my group, also in the coalition, but you have accused me of being opposed to this initiative. In We might even have had the opportunity to implement something, but there was your group that prevented consensus. Only, Mrs Grossmann, that detheme They do not have the obligation to submit a motion for a resolution which is at least possible.They require that the Federal Government be asked to send a bill to the National Council so that this electoral age reduction can already apply to the next National Council election. – Look You're on the run! Perhaps you prepared this request four or six weeks ago or two months ago, but you should have brought it in earlier. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== A government template must be sent to the National Council for consideration and then sent to a committee, decision-making et cetera. At best will: This motion for a resolution is, unfortunately, of nothing and no one else to be implemented in Austria. If you bring him back into the next legislative period, we will discuss him intensively and hopefully achieve a success!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15846	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15867	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer, Austria is a beautiful country, but it does not belong to the ÖVP, even if you want to! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But not to the Greens either!]] Whoever criticizes you as ÖVP, does not criticize Austria, but the ÖVP, and this criticism in your direction you can't easily put on anyone that you already have to please and deal with. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr. Molterer, you have done here today that Austria is a beautiful country. This is, of course, clear, and this has also remained possible despite ÖVP! They have explained that Austria is a rich country – and that it is true – and that the Austrians are doing well. That is only true if you see only that group that is important to you; then you can already be right. But in Austria there are more groups of people than those you want to see. In Austria there are very, very many groups that do not belong to the majority and which do not work well. Of course they do not belong to your environment – but they belong to Austria! If you do not accept this group of people, at least take note of the fact that these people will continue to fight for their rights in the future – including people with disabilities. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am glad that Mrs Haubner has finally managed to refrain from listing your balance sheet, which you have not done everything for people with disabilities. She saved it. You know why? – Because she didn’t want her server to be overcrowded with e-mails from disabled people who want to know about her where she lives and what she is talking about. The Minister wanted to save herself this before the summer break, so she did not mention it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mr Molterer, someone from your group has made a sense of it and has boasted that the care allowance has been valorised once in six years. Once in six years! Do you know what that means in concrete implementation? [[Abg. Steibl: In other countries there is not even a care allowance!]] 15 percent loss for care providers in six years – and that is really nothing to be celebrated or celebrated for, but that is something you should actually think about. If you are willing to include this group of people in your image of Mr and Mrs Österreicher, then there is nothing to celebrate, but there is a need to re-acquire big mistakes. You have also talked about it today, Mr Molterer, how well the economy is in Austria, how many jobs we have and how we actually swim in prosperity because of the good income from work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how intense your – I don't even want to call it that – still works long-term memory, but can you remember? We Greens have not even tabled a resolution here in Parliament two months ago, demanding that we finally end by having to work for 30, 40 years without ever having a social security income. It's not about 20, 30, about 100 or 200 people, but it's about thousands of people who have to work and want to work their lives, but who never have the chance to get a social security income. That's why we have to take care of ourselves in Austria. This concerns all of us, and we must not hide it, but it must be the interest of all that this group of people with disabilities can finally be liberated from their dependence on stationary facilities and special institutions. But you have missed that in your six years of government! Similarly, you, ladies and gentlemen, have missed out on the fact that you have actually created quality for deaf people in this country, quality that it is possible that even deaf people can television because they are translated into sign language. In Austria, only 15 percent of the entire television programme is translated into sign language. In Holland, this figure of 15 percent was real 17 years ago and is now 90 percent, but we are still “swimming” at 15 percent. – So this has not been done! Just as little you have made sure that the health system improves for people with disabilities and old age. It is no longer a secret that mobility impaired people cannot be reached in medical practices only via stages. But you, the ÖVP with her wife's minister, have prevented this from being included in the quality criteria. [[Abg. Grill: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Grill: No!]] Don't say no, I was sitting in this advisory board – and not you! You may also sit somewhere, but in the Scientific Advisory Board of the Medical Chamber I was sitting and not you; that's why you don't know. It has not been possible to obtain the signature from the Ms. Minister to ensure that medical practices with transitional periods have become barrier-free. I could now list you a long list of things you didn't address that were not important to you. We take note of this; we have no chance of taking note of it anyway. But believe me one thing: You do not need to think that we people with disabilities are not also part of the Austrian population! And if you tell us, Austria is not as good as you are constantly claiming. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e15992	Mr Walch has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16013	Mr President. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! So I have to tell you quite honestly, I'm proud to have two ministers from the BZÖ sitting here. What has been achieved together with the coalition partner in the last four or six years is unique. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, I would have believed that you are a little stuck to the truth, because what you have said here at the speaker's desk of falsehoods or injustices I find unheard of! Mrs Haubner and I are very busy on the road, and we come together a lot with wheelchair drivers. Talk to those and hear Federal Minister Haubner praise and highlight what this government has done for people with disabilities in Austria! This is unique, I have to tell you whether this is the disability billion, whether it is the disability equalisation law, whether it is the increase in care fees and much more. There she gets a praise – only by Mrs. Haidlmayr comes only negative. Think positively, then the world will look better for you too! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I am directly sorry that I have to say something about Mr Mandak's comments, because she is a very objective politician. Unfortunately, only one did not vote: She claimed here that there are many people in Austria who have only 400 € pension. But, Mrs Colleague, we have to end the sentence: If they are alone, they get 690 €. As we know, there is a minimum pension, but it always comes out negatively in the public. So you should stick to the truth and say it correctly. So, then we have to take stock of it. Today, there is actually the distribution of evidence in Austria, and Mr Gusenbauer, too, has done so and made an assessment. I too now give evidence of the opposition and of Mr Gusenbauer. Mr Cap, take good care of this and send it to Mr Gusenbauer! In advance, I can say that I am often on the road with my colleagues in the company and also in other establishments. I am Chairman of the works council of a small construction company with about 300 employees. We have many working communities. There I come together with many colleagues, including the SPÖ Group, with former SPÖ works councils who no longer trust to run under SPÖ, because the colleagues say: What about them?- Oh, my God! No, if you're going to run for them, I won't pick you my day! – Do you know what they call you? – You, the SPÖ, are the Penthouse Party of Austria. And there's a new disease in Austria, that's the penthouse syndrome. Gusenbauer has ordered all those who are ill to go to the Caribbean for a rest. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] After what happened to these funds, you will not trust yourself so much in the businesses now, except in those where it is a bit dictatorial, where no one is allowed to say anything, otherwise he must be afraid of a job loss. Where the Social Democrats have the say, it is not that easy. Many come to me and say: We would rather not burn our fingers, otherwise the works council will come and tell the boss, and then you will have no more ascent! – By the way, there are also works councils here as representatives who choose such practices. Yesterday I addressed it, SPÖ scandals are also in Upper Austria. There is a mayor in Pashing, Böhm, who approves of a second salary, because with what is due to you, one does not end up smoking thick cigars, driving a Ferrari and also wants to go on vacation accordingly. – SPÖ member! You won't let it go. The following is: I refer to how many SPÖ national councils or high officials are still involved in this SPÖ-ÖGB-BAWAG scandal. There's a tumbler, there's an elsner, there's a loft, a flott and many more – all carved from your wood! These are your friends! Tell me who you're going with, I'll tell you who you are! That's where I have to tell you. On October 1st, many of your former members or voters will leave you, because they certainly do not agree with this policy. And you have never had a social heart in Austria, but the social heart we had, this government. What have you done for families? – The then family minister Prammer has reduced the karenz period from two years to one and a half years. Is family policy? – This is anti-family policy! We have extended the karenz period from one and a half years to three years. You have been forced to work but not to do anything or to earn only a small amount of money. With us they can earn 14 600 €, but don't lose the child money, and much more. There's a whole series of: New finishing, alignment of workers and employees, single-earner redundancies and much more. I am also proud of our Minister of Justice – perhaps it will even be a small bull, for which I already wish her luck. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It has made the best and sharpest asylum law in Austria. Interestingly, the SPÖ has also voted in favour; only a few have stayed away. The fact that you are not on the path of improvement, but on the way to deterioration, today – I say now at the end – your colleague Posch also said that he pointed out how you deal with your party friends. No one's allowed to say too much with you. There's going to be a sharp shot. Duck up! Mr Fritz Freyschlager from Upper Austria, former workers' chamber president – unfortunately he has already died – once said to me, who I have been in the Chamber since 1989, after a chamber assembly: Max, you're a fucking dog! You always house me in the Chamber, only one thing I tell you: You tell me in the middle of the face, you tell me the truth. With you, I know how I'm doing. Not with my own people, because there's always the hacks from behind! So Fritz Freyschlager. With this government, Austria has been transformed into a positive one. I hope that the people will recognize this so that this government can continue to work as it has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16116	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Stoisits. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16138	Mr President. High house! Walter Posch, I would like to thank you as the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, also as a human rights spokesperson of the Greens, because you, together with others – that was not us alone – through years of lobbying – so I am thinking now of the period from 1990 to 1999 – have fought for a committee on human rights to be set up in the Austrian Parliament. Thank you for that! [[General condolences.]] We now have this Committee for six years, and it has been six years of intensive cooperation at a fractional, inter-fractional level, far too little cooperation in the Human Rights Committee, because the awareness of human rights agendas, awareness of fundamental rights, has not yet come into this Parliament to the extent that it should actually have place here. If you leave Parliament now, I say, I have lost a fellow player, many who have worked in the Human Rights Committee, but not only in the Human Rights Committee, have lost a fellow player. But the Austrian civil society has not lost a person who is courageous, who shows the contradiction when it is necessary, and who is a very important part, also outside this House, of Austrian society, namely open Austrian society. I've done this – and I hope so for many here –: In future, Mr Posch, we will have you as a mirror for what we look indirectly into as regards our work on fundamental rights, fundamental rights awareness and sensitivity. Please, don't stop being like you were and are, even if it wasn't always as successful as you would have liked! The SPÖ needs people like you, the Austrians need people like you, the Austrian parliament needs people like you. We'll think of you very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16174	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1632 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the reduction of the electoral age. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – The request does not find the majority. He's rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[15:42:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16243	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 857/A and 858/A(E) have been tabled. Questions 4627/J to 4702/J were also raised. [[15:42:25]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 2005/2006
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16268	In agreement with the political groups, I now put the following request to the House: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXII in 2005/2006. legislative period at the end of the 14th century. to be declared terminated on July 2006’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I should also like to say that the President-in-Office of the Council has instructed me to inform Mr Bundeskanzler that the parties represented in the President-in-Office's Conference are the 1. ==References====External links== [[15:43:10]] Requests for permanent declaration of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16304	I have a request in accordance with § 46 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the honourable Member. Kogler proposes to instruct the Court of Auditors to continue its work during the meeting-free period. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. Furthermore, I have a request in accordance with § 46 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of Members of the European Parliament. Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Colleagues, and others, to instruct the Court of Auditors to work on the request of Members of the European Parliament. Molterer, colleagues and colleagues according to § 32e para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the award of a contract to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank and the Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FMA), including the activities of its legal predecessor, the Federal Securities Supervisory Board (BWA), with regard to the fulfilment of its supervisory duty on the Bank's business for work and business (BAWAG), including its subsidiary companies, in particular their “Caribbean transactions”, loans, liabilities, guarantees, holdings, acquisitions and buy-backs of shares as well as other transactions and flows of money to cover the BAWAG's actual assets, especially during the period of the likely loss of approximately €1.4 billion; this applies in particular to the years 1994 to 2000, with regard to the period 2000 to today, since the current Minister of Finance has immediately given the task of setting up an independent and non-obligatory supervisory authority during the day. So this is the request to declare permanently the work of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on Subcommittee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request of the honourable Members. Molterer, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues agree to a similar sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. [[15:45:30]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16360	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol concerning Agenda item 3 and the decision to end the ordinary meeting in 2005/2006 so that these parts of the Official Protocol are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘With regard to item 3 of the agenda, according to § 44 para. 2 GOG unanimously – with the necessary two-thirds majority – decided to distance itself from the 24-hour expiry period of the Committee's report 1632 of the Supplements. TO point 3: Report by the Constitutional Committee on the proposal (856/A) by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Josef Cap, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXII. The legislative period of the National Council ended prematurely (1632 d.a.) Mr Gusenbauer, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 3/1 EA). The vote will take place at The draft law will be adopted unanimously in 1632, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, of the second and third reading supplements. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 3/1 EA, is hereby rejected. The President, in agreement with the political groups, made the following request (Annex B): ,The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the ordinary meeting of XXII in 2005/2006. National Council legislative period at the end of the 14th century. To be declared completed on July 20, 2006.’ This amendment, Supplement B, is adopted unanimously. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda item 3 and to the decision to terminate the ordinary session 2005/2006 (Annex C).’ Are objections to this clear protocol, which is all quite understandable, with sentences of the goodness of Thomas Mann? - That's not the case. The selected parts of the Official Protocol are therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen! I close the sitting after a short final word. I'm asking for the microphone to be set up. [[15:48:23]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-07-14-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00161_d7e16452	Ladies and gentlemen! We have just decided unanimously to complete four years of work, four years of work in which the House held plenary sessions on 161 days, 400 committee deliberations, 102 subcommittee consultations, 4 500 written questions, i.e. three written questions on average each day each year, and four years through – 500 oral questions and supplementary questions; a clear-cut work denunciation that the House has done. In addition, your personal work comes in the constituency. I would like to thank you for the dedication and enthusiasm with which you have done your work in the National Council. Of course, as we have seen today, our work is marked by conflict and consensus, it is also the tension between conflict and consensus. This is also very well reflected in the fact that 50 percent of the laws were passed unanimously – this is a long-term average – and 90 percent of the state agreements were unanimously adopted. The fact that the House works as it works is also due to the Presidential Conference, which works in a climate of cooperation, the quality of hands and positive parliamentaryism. I would also like to thank the Second and Third Presidents, as well as the four club members, of course the Director of Parliament and his staff, but also the club directors who are essential to us and without whom we cannot do our work at the Presidential Conference. Thank you all! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely at the end of the semester that we are asked again and again what it is like with the evaluation of Members. Is there a benchmarking – and is what is published in some newspapers, in which a longer one, with a commendable e-mail connection, in the other shorter, really a benchmarking? Does the number of speeches and minutes really determine the quality of Members? Is that the scale? – I do everything and take a vehement stand against it because I believe that your dedicated work, the effort and often effortful work in the committees, but also in the information of your electorate in the constituencies is absolutely not fair! I will continue to try to correct this distorted image, which sometimes exists, and to act against it. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over the past four years, we have carried out a number of major structural changes in our work: the project Open Parliament, for example, which we have worked out together, and I can tell you today that we – as of July 2006 – had around 100,000 visitors, that is, twice as much as in previous years. The number of visitors to youth has also increased considerably, but also the number of seniors who come here again and again as our guests. The number of paid visitors has also multiplied. As far as the new ramp is concerned, we can really talk about the spread of the poor; the new central entrance has proved to be very successful. In this context, I would like to thank Mr Posch, who has developed this project with his staff very much, because it is really successful! [[General condolences.]] The strongest department here in the Hohe Haus is now the event department that makes events and conducts groups; 80 employees are available for this purpose. We've just become a little travel agency, I have to say, with 20 young people leading our visitors through the high house. And I also think that you, my own Ladies and gentlemen, if you invite people here to hear from this certainly recognition for all this service here. Another project that you have all experienced and which has really changed our work substantially is the paperless Parliament. Whole forests no longer need to be wooded because everything is on the Internet. Remember You still think how much paper we towed every day in our suitcases?- Oh, my God! That's over now; everything's on the Internet. In this context, I would also like to say that Mr Engeljehringer, the Council of Parliament, has been awarded an international prize for this; our Parliament is really the leader. That is why I would like to express my warm thanks to Mr Engeljehringer, the Parliamentary Directorate's computer team and the recognition of all of us. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a Parliament website, which also belongs to this Open Parliament project – and to which there are millions of access. The construction services that have taken place in recent years are all known to you, such as the construction of the visitor centre. We are now in the process of renovating the club premises of some political groups over the summer months. They can also be convinced that the gilding of the fireplace articles has been completed. With regard to further construction services: The so-called Karl-Render-Library is being renovated, better said, into the original state. In our Parliament library, Dr. Karl Renner has produced his writings, and there he has designed the texts for our federal constitution. The Parliamentary Library will then be fully usable again next year. Next year, we will also be starting to maintain this plenary room here, in accordance with your requirements – and I would particularly like to see Madam President Mag. Barbara Prammerdanken, who has prepared all this with the Building Committee and, so to speak, carried it over the cliffs of monument protection. Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria had the Presidency in the European Union in the last half of the year, with the clear objective and, as I say immediately, with the aim of increasing public relations and understanding for Europe by means of a change in the Rules of Procedure. However, we have not yet achieved this goal completely. I therefore believe that the next Presidential Conference will have to consider improvements in this regard. However, I would like to thank the EU Council President Wolfgang Schüssel, who, as an enthusiastic former parliamentarian here in this House, helped to bring the conclusions that we have drawn up in the European Parliaments for the better involvement of the state parliaments in EU legislation to the European Council, so that this is also retained there. In any event, we will be much more involved in the pre-examination of European laws from September onwards. I would also like to thank Werner Fassleven as Chairman of COSAC, the Committee on Europe, and his deputy Caspar. You have already had a lot of work, but in autumn, I think, if this pre-examination system works, there will certainly be much more. [[General condolences.]] Since I am currently on the subject of Europe and I know that Peter Schieder will no longer be a member of the next National Council – if he does not think it better – I would like to thank Mr Schieder as just too exemplary Austrian parliamentarians for his work. Peter Schieder was a grand chairperson of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and he was a parliamentarian who has been very bothered by the government, for example, on military missions. But he has shaped with high ethos the best Austrian parliamentary tradition. I would like to thank you very much, dear Peter Schieder! We'll miss you very much here! [[The Members of this House have been congratulating us for a long time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude. How a machine works works, so does our house. As the engine looks, it usually doesn't interest, but one thing I want to say: Together and in collaborative work, which has already begun under my predecessor Heinz Fischer, we have brought to an end the reorganisation of this House, which is department for department. I am proud that from autumn this year we will have two heads of service inside; so far this was a purely male body. With the head of the National Council, Dr. Janistyn, and the Federal Council director, Dr. Bachmann, two women will be in the leading position in Parliament's management for the first time. Two more would have to be over the next few years, then, ladies, this will be gender-friendly. In any case, I will do everything – if I will be able to do so; but I am sure that others will continue to do so in the Bureau – so that this House has been conducted in a gender-right manner. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A work is probably done on many of you: There are about ten ladies and gentlemen of the House who are doing considerable additional work in the administration and control of the restitution agents in the National Fund and in general compensation funds, and I would therefore very much like to thank these ladies and gentlemen of the National Fund's Board of Trustees very much. This is a lot of work, but it makes our country honour that we finally fulfil these obligations – now good and fast. I would like to thank Mrs Secretary-General Hannah Lessing and her team in particular. We started there with 20 people, now it's 160, and I think we'll complete the work next year. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will see ourselves more often this summer, I have the impression; there I do not need to be a prophet. Peter Schieder, you're not here the last time. There will be special meetings, but still: Now, I think we might be able to spend 14 days with our families. I wish you a nice summer for the next 14 days! And I'd like to join the appeal I've heard today: Hard conflicts are part of this; thin skins must not be anyone – the last of the president. But let us deal with each other in such a way that we can work together again in the committees and in the presidencies. That's what I wish us all. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] The sitting is closed.
