ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1487	Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 3 para. It is up to the President of the previous legislative period to open the meeting and to chair the new President or President until the election of the new President. In this sense, I open the first and constituent session of the newly elected National Council of XXIII. The legislative period we begin with the German anthem.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1518	I very much welcome all the Members of the House, both those who have been elected to the National Council recently, and those who are now elected as newly elected Members at the beginning of their parliamentary work. I wish you all good luck and success in your work for our Republic. [[General condolences.]] With great respect, I welcome our President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischer, who gives us the honour of being present at this meeting. [[General acknowledgment]] I am pleased to welcome Mr Kurt Waldheim, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, too. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ORF shall be delegated to the meeting until the outcome of the election of the Third President or of the Third President. The photographers can now take photos for three minutes, then I ask her to leave the hall. [[11:03:28]] Meeting of the regular meeting (2007)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1566	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 26. In accordance with Article 27(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 27(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website legislative period and in accordance with Article 28(1). 1 of the Federal Constitution also convened at its regular meeting in 2006/2007. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. [[11:04:02]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1590	I can also send the House the following letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. October 2006 Communication: ‘To the President of the National Council Mr President. I have the honour to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 3. October 2006, GZ. 300,000/1-BEV/2006, held at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 3 June 2006; In October 2006, the Federal Government adopted a decision and removed the Federal Government and the State Secretary from office in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the other members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, until the formation of a new Federal Government, State Secretary Franz Morak, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Dr. Hans Winkler, Dr. Alfred Finz, Sigisbert Dolinschek, Mag. Helmut Kukackaund Mag. Eduard Mainoni has been entrusted with the further perception of their functions. Best regards Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel.”
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1657	According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, until the final election of the authors, I shall now appoint four Members of Parliament for the provisional provision of this function, after consulting the President-in-Office of the Council: Mrs Gabriele Binder-Maier, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Mag. Werner Koglerund Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch. No one is reported to be prevented for today's session. [[11:06:07]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1696	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 1/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Defence concerning exit from the Eurofighter Treaty. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. [[11:06:51]] 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1726	We are now entering the agenda and coming to 1. Point: It is the fishing of Members. [[The representatives of the SPÖ wear red roses at the revers, those of the ÖVP white roses and those of the FPÖ blue grain flowers.]] The scribe, Mr Mag. Werner Kogler, will read the Angelobung formula, and then the Members will be replaced by the latter by Mrs Gabriele Binder-Maier by Mrs Gabriele Binder-Maier, who will have to do the Angelobung with the words “I vow”. I now have the permission of the author, Mr Mag. Werner Koglerbitten to read the fishing formula and then start with the name call. – We rise from the squares for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1768	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By name call by the scribe Mag. Kogler, or by the writer Binder-Maier, the following Members make the fishing observation with the words “I praise”: Amon Werner, MBA; Aspock Robert, Dr. Aubauer Gertrude, Mag.Use custom fonts; Auer Jakob; Auer Klaus Hubert, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Bartenstein Martin, Dr.; Baumgartner-Gabitzer Ulrike, Dr.; Bayr Petra; Mulder Ruth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Belakovich-Jenewein Dagmar, Dr.; Binder-Maier Gabriele; Bösch Reinhard Eugen, Dr.; Brader Alfred, Mag. Dr.; Brinek Gertrude, Dr.; Brosz Dieter; Broukal Joseph; Bucher Joseph; Bures Doris; Cap Josef, Dr.; Csörgits Renate; Darabos Norbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Darmann Gernot, Mag.Use custom fonts; Dobnigg Karl; Donabauer Karl; Donnerbauer Heribert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Eder Kurt; Eder Sebastian, Dr.; Eder-Gitschthaler Andrea, Dr.; A Caspar, Dr.; Einwallner Thomas; Eßl Franz; Fassleven Werner, Dr.; Faul Christian; Fazekas Hannes; Fekter Maria Theresia, Mag. Dr.; Fichtenbauer Peter, Dr.; Fleckl Anita; Franz Anna; Friend Karl; Fuhrmann Silvia; Filler Christian; Fürntrath Adelheid Irina; Gaál Anton; Gahr Hermann; Gartlehner Kurt, Ing.Use custom fonts; Gaßner Kurt, Mag.Use custom fonts; Glaser Franz; Glavischnig-Piesczek Eva, Dr.; Grain-duration Alois; Count Martin, Mag. Dr.; Grander Maria; Grillic Fritz; Grossmann Elisabeth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Grossruck Wolfgang; Green Forest Kurt, Dr. Gusenbauer Alfred, Dr.; Haberzetl Wilhelm; Hagenhofer Marianne; Haidlmayr Theresia; Haimbuchner Manfred, Mag. Dr.; Hakl Karin, Mag.Use custom fonts; Haubner Peter; Haubner Ursula; Hauser Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Heinisch-Hosek Gabriele; Heinzl Anton; Hlavac Elisabeth, Dr.; Hofer Norbert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Höfinger Johann; Hörl Franz; Hornek Erwin; Hradecsni Bettina; Huainigg Franz-Joseph, Dr.; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Kainz Christoph; Kaipel Erwin, Ing.Use custom fonts; Karl Beatrix, Mag. Dr.; Keck Dietmar; Kickl Herbert; Kirchgatterer Franz; Klement Karlheinz, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Cheers Gerhard; Kogler Werner, Mag.Use custom fonts; Königsberger-Ludwig Ulrike; Head Karlheinz; Kößl Günter; Krainer Kai Jan; Herbs Günther, Dr.; Crist Hermann; Kukacka Helmut, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kurzmann Gerhard, Dr.; Kuzdas Hubert, Ing. May.Use custom fonts; Lap Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lentic Edeltraud; Lichtenecker Ruperta, Dr.; Lopatka Reinhold, Dr.; Lunacek Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Maier Ferdinand, Dr.; Maier Johann, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mandak Sabine; Marek Christine; Marizzi Peter; Matznetter Christoph, Dr.; Mayer Elmar; Mayerhofer Leopold; Mikesch Herta; Missethon Hannes, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Reinhold, Dr. Mitterlehner; Molterer Wilhelm, Mag.Use custom fonts; Morak Franz; Moser Gabriela, Dr.; Musical Joseph; Murauer Walter; - Muttonen Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Neubauer Werner; Neugebauer Fritz; German Erwin, DDr.Use custom fonts; Oberhauser Sabine, Dr. Upper Noster Gabriel; Ollinger Karl; Parnigoni Rudolf; Pendl Otto; Pilz Peter, Dr.; Pirklhuber Wolfgang, Dipl.-Ing. Dr.; Plassnik Ursula, Dr.; Platter Günther; Prehauser Stefan; Prammer Barbara, Mag.Use custom fonts; Praßl Michael; Prettenthaler Sylvia; Prince Nicholas; Pröll Josef, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Rada Robert, Dr. Rädler Johann; Rasinger Erwin, Dr. Rauch-Kallat Maria; Reheis Gerhard; Riener Barbara; Riepl Franz; Rosary Barbara; Rossmann Bruno, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sburny Michaela; sound veit; Angry Erika; Shashing Beate; Honey Birgit, Mag.Use custom fonts; Scheibner Herbert; Scheuch Uwe, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Arbitrator Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schönpass Rosemarie; Shopf Walter; Schultes Hermann, Ing.Use custom fonts; Kussel Wolfgang, Dr.; Sieber Norbert; Silhavy Heidrun; Sonnberger Peter, Dr.; Spindelberger Erwin; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Stadlbauer Bettina; Stadler Ewald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Dust Peter; Steibl Ridi; Steier Gerhard; Steindl Konrad; Stoisits Teresa, Mag.Use custom fonts; Strache Heinz-Christian; Stupid Günter, Dkfm. Dr.; Themessl Bernhard; Trunk Melitta, Mag.Use custom fonts; Van der Bellen Alexander, Dr.; Vilimsky Harald; Weinzinger Brigid, Mag.Use custom fonts; Weinzinger Lutz; Westenthaler Peter, Ing.Use custom fonts; Wimmer Rainer; Wittmann Peter, Dr.; Woeinger August; Worm Gisela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Zach Alexander; vocalist Wolfgang; Zinggl Wolfgang, Mag. Dr.; Dwarf Barbara.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2453	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to take your seat. All 183 Members have made the vow, and the Angelobung has ended. Ladies and gentlemen, you have committed yourself with your vow to law-reliance and conscientious exercise of your functions. I can wish you the best success for your responsible parliamentary work in the service of our Republic, much joy and great success at work! [[11:18:16]] 2. Point Election of the President/President, Second President/Second President and Third President/Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2486	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. This is the election of the President/President, the Second President/Second President and the Third President/third President of the National Council. There are written constituencies that I announce. The proposal for the President of the National Council is to Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer. On the election of the Second President, Mr Dr. Michael Spindelegger. For the election of the Third President, a Green Club election proposal is tabled by Mrs Mag. Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek. In line with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2556	According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a 15-minute block-time limit is proposed for this debate, with a maximum of two speakers per group speaking. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this Rules of Procedure to give a sign of approval. – This is also done unanimously and is therefore adopted. We are now going into the debate. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. The required speaking time is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2592	Mr President! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ==References== The Austrians made a fundamental decision for the next four years. And as always, the wisdom of voters is expressed in such a vote. And the wisdom of this 1. October is that many people in our country want a change to deal with the major challenges facing our country, but a change that takes place in cooperation and cooperation. Before us there is a great demand to ensure that there is a peaceful and conflict-free policy in the integration policy. Living together gives between the people who have grown up in Austria and those who come to Austria. Before us lies the great challenge of future-oriented, solidary financing of our health system. Before us lies the great challenge of combating unemployment in Austria and ensuring that young people in particular have more opportunities in our country. Before us lies the great challenge of making our state and our society fit for the coming years to carry out a state and bureaucrats form, In order for us to get rid of the funds we urgently need for future investment. And before us is the great challenge of starting a major offensive in education policy so that more children and young people have better opportunities in our country. We want to be a follow-up to the 1st World War. October to ensure that there is more social fairness, more social balance in Austria, and I invite all parties and MEPs represented in Parliament to cooperate and participate in responding to these major challenges for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we now have the responsibility to make the most of the results of the elections for the next few years, it is important, I believe, that we develop a common parliamentary understanding. On the contrary, I believe that a Parliament is not in a position to understand only the majority of the governments in Parliament, but rather, I believe that Parliament should be a place of debate and discussion, where it is not a matter of who is the sender of a proposal, but of which it is primarily a matter of what quality there is to be able to solve future problems as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am pleading for this autonomous character of Parliament to be strengthened and a better solution together, regardless of whether it is possible to find itself in the government or in the opposition in the future. I think we would be doing a good job in Austria if the parliamentary climate were a better one than in the past. I say quite frankly, I cannot remember that in the last four years a single law has been passed, which has been based on the initiative of a member of the opposition. Only laws that were the initiative of members of the government were passed, and I would be pleased if, in the next few years, a law was also passed that would go back to the initiative of a member of the opposition, because it would also document a greater freedom of the Austrian Parliament. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Parliament is the place of discussion, is the place of shaping the future, but Parliament is also the place of control and the place of transparency. And I do not think that a Parliament should be allowed to fail in carrying out its control tasks. Neither threats nor attempts at intimidation from the outside should a Parliament refrain from doing what citizens are increasingly demanding, namely to ensure transparent conditions in our country. Parliament's control activity, also in cooperation with the Court of Auditors, is one of the most important tasks of Parliament. That is why many have already expressed their support for the fact that Parliament's control rights are not restricted, but rather, on the contrary, extended these control rights and we do so in the same way as many country days in Austria, where, for example, the setting up of investigation committees is already a minority and not a majority right. That, I think, is what we should do together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is therefore important that we take first steps today to ensure that Parliament has its responsibilities. take seriously, ensure clear conditions and also take the control mandate seriously by the Austrian population. I think it is particularly important to prove, on the first occasion, that you are credible and that you comply with the mandate of the population. I believe that in the next four years we will have to face a number of major challenges and that we will be able to make the most of these four years, if we have as far as possible a Bureau of Parliament, have the experience of having clear positions in the world, and can lead the sometimes very strong and heated debates of Parliament objectively. That is why the Socialist parliamentary group has decided to do so, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer for the President's office. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are convinced that it brings all the necessary qualifications to carry out this office well. It has shown in recent years, as the second president, that it is able to conduct Parliament's negotiations well and objectively, and also in many parliamentary activities outside the plenary room, it has shown that it has fully grown in this task. May. Barbara Prammer has extensive political experience in the Landtag, the State Government, the Federal Government and Parliament, and we are convinced that Barbara Prammer would be a good president of the Austrian National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I also believe that it would be a very good signal if for the first time in the history of our Parliament, in the history of the Second Republic, a committed political woman would become President of the National Council. That would, I believe, be a new quality and a very positive political signal, not only in Austria, but also beyond our borders. I would therefore like to ask you all to give Barbara Prammer confidence today in the election of the President. I and we are convinced that it will justify this confidence over the next four years!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2722	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His welcome time is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2744	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October, the Austrians decided. The wisdom of the voters has led to this result that we have, that is true. But there is not only the wisdom of voters, ladies and gentlemen, but also the wisdom of political leaders. The first meeting of a new legislative period was marked by commonness for good reason – I think the Republic of Austria has done so well – in the past and has always been marked by the fact that the Joint Assembly was placed in the service of the matter. Clearly, the wisdom of political leaders has led us to deal with a slightly different situation today. We stand at the beginning of a legislative period, where obviously – unlike before – not necessarily the common place at the beginning of the work, but obviously the separating, where not the commonness is sought, but obviously the struggle. This is quite a legitimate right of Parliament and Parliamentarians. The question is allowed as to whether it is wise. Ladies and gentlemen! In this new legislative period there are also more parliamentary factions: We have five political groups in this House. And at the beginning of this legislative period, it is obvious that the majority in this House are formed and sought, which have up to now been unthinkable by some. I think it is already a question of the wisdom of political leaders, whether it is wise to seek majority voting, at all costs, and so to question the common position. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that at the beginning of a legislative period, these issues need to be addressed legally and, of course, of course. It is also a question of political wisdom whether the common carrier of the past, the expired legislative period can and should be further developed. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we can be proud of the performance of the Austrians – and can also be proud of the achievements of the political parties, namely all the political parties. I do not understand, therefore, that the achievements that we can build on and build on are called into question. I think it was good tradition of Austria – and it should continue to be – that we can build and build on the achievements, on this solid foundation that we have created in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that, to this solid foundation of our home country, Austria has all made its contribution, no matter what its function. I can well remember – I do not therefore understand that some want to put their own achievements under the umbrella in such a way – that it was very common here in the National Council, and I hope that in the future too will be positive suggestions, of course, from whomever they come, then, when they serve the common cause, actually have been implemented and, I hope, also in the future, ladies and gentlemen will be implemented. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, I would like to introduce this new legislative period and, first and foremost, with a thank you: I would like to thank all the Members who are no longer members of the House very much, very much, for all the parties have provided these Members with a service to Austria, and for this we thank them very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] In a very special way, I would also like to thank the two Presidents who will not be able to exercise this office any longer or will not be able to exercise it any more: first of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, to whom at the beginning a certain distrust met, but who – and I may say so in the name of all – has exercised in a great way the function of the Third President of the National Council. [[In the case of the ÖVP as well as the SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ representatives.]] Now I would like to thank myself, ladies and gentlemen, very personally and on behalf of the Austrian People's Party with Mr. Dr. Andreas Khol. Andreas Khol has been a powerful parliamentarian, a parliamentarian of scrap and grain, as it is so well called, who has also given some rivet trees, but who, in his duties as President of the National Council, has done great things that will go into history. I think that the opening up of this House, for example, is a merit of Andreas Khol, also the European orientation, but of course also the Presidency. Dear Andreas, we thank you very much for this work! We lose a powerful parliamentarian – but we win a strong senior representative! Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] I hope that the National Council will continue to build on this solid foundation during this new legislative period, that important choices will continue to be set in the future, as was the case in the past: in great commonness. I think, for example, that the question of Europe was and is one of the common objectives of the House, which provides good services for Austria and is the right perspective for Austria. People expect discussion and consensus from the House. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a chance – at least at the beginning – to demonstrate our willingness to agree. The SPÖ, as it corresponds to the Uzance, nominated and candidates the First President, with Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer. Mrs Mag. Prammer, we know you, we have had good experiences with you. They therefore have our support. The Greens have nominated Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Pieszcek for the election of the Third President, according to the Usancen Ms. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Pieszcek. Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, we know you, we will support you, but expect you very clearly to be obliged to the Office and the entire National Council. With Dr. Michael Spindelegger, the Austrian People's Party has nominated a personality for the election of the Second President of the National Council, who is a profiled parliamentarian, who has been a member of the House since 1992: first the Federal Council, then the National Council. Dr. Michael Spindelegger is one of the most prominent foreign politicians in the Republic of Austria, the foreign-political spokesman of the Austrian People's Party, a profiled European, ladies and gentlemen – Dr. Michael Spindeleggerwar Europe's first hour delegate and is currently head of the Austrian delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – and a profiled employee representative in his previous role. Michael Spindelegger will certainly fill this office in great service to the case and the Republic of Austria. I ask you for your support! I think that, in the sense of this commonness, a symbol can be set here that corresponds to the wisdom of political leaders.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2907	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is also expected to be 9 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2928	Mr President. First of all, a few words on the ongoing government negotiations and then on the actual item on the agenda, on the election of the National Council Bureau. The Federal President has given the government mandate to SPÖ as the most powerful party, and the result of the election suggests that there will be a SPÖ/ÖVP coalition, because a different two-way relationship is not possible. I personally – you will understand, Mr. Strache, you will understand, Mr. Westenthaler – do not wish me to see blue or orange represented in the future government. That is why I have to advocate a red and black government coalition now – as hard as I do – in view of the results of the election, which the people – you have said, Mr Molterer – have so decided in their wisdom. We all know how delicate big coalitions are, that they are in danger of taking more of a standstill than major reforms – but this is not a natural law, but it is probably yours, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. I am not present at your meetings, but I can only wonder, with what hesitation, with what – how should I say? – psychological ballast has apparently begun and been conducted. [[Abg. Großruck: You better look at the SPÖ!]] There is no such thing as this – I am now saying as a middle-sized and directly involved citizen – that there is no common ground in economic policies, in the area of promoting economic growth as a central task of the last governments and the coming government! How do you explain this to the people?- Oh, my God! There's no way you're... [[Call to the ÖVP: But you will not be able to explain it either!]] . You bear the responsibility, and I can only remind you of that, in the sense of Mr Molterer, who gave a previous opinion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, they do not have to take over from the ÖVP the key concepts of the SPÖ, which they have partly taken over from the Greens, but if, for example, we are talking about growing poverty in Austria, it is also the goal and vision of a party oriented to the Catholic social doctrine to protect the people in Austria from growing poverty – with whatever measures it takes to discuss. [[Rejoicing]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, the urgent need for action in the area of social assistance in Austria – quite dryly said – would not seriously challenge and doubt anyone from the ÖVP and no one from the SPÖ. The fact that there are no common ways is now really difficult to understand! And that on the Austrian labour market the challenges – to say it quite flattly; Mr. One of them is looking at me for a bit of a penalty – that globalisation should be taken seriously and that there should be a great deal of attention to this mismatch of supply and demand for skills on the Austrian labour market, that is, to put the greatest priority on education, training and training policy, could not only protect consensus between red and black – God! – be, but that is at least consensus between red, black and green. The fact that there are no common ways, you must try to explain this to the people – not least because Austria is in a happy position to have empirical economic research institutes that put on the table every few months concepts, ideas, visions, especially the Wifo under the new leadership of Karl Aigerger, who will not tire of promoting a cross-party consensus in technology policy, in innovation policy, in education and research and so on. At human discretion, the new government should and should therefore be able to reach agreement on a common programme in the next four weeks. Everything else from Parliament's point of view – and now I speak as a parliamentarian, as a member of the National Council – is really hard to understand and hard to accept. That we don't have anything to do here for weeks and, so to speak, take a break, you can't explain that to anyone outside! Six weeks for government negotiations is a long time. If I remember correctly, then black and green did not negotiate for so long, in February 2003. However, it has also been badly assumed, you have to say that too. [[General hustle and bustle.]] You should have crossed this point soon, and I think that is possible if there is a good will. The Committee of Inquiry, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which is to be decided today as the Causa Eurofighter, should not be used as an excuse! I believe that research committees are, in principle, a legitimate, important and useful instrument of Parliament. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can't just move this away, especially because you have always said about the ÖVP: There's nothing to hide, just investigate! – Now suddenly, on Monday the 30th. October, it's all different!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Molterer, a little bit of a worm to me: Please stop talking about quiet, secret, hidden coalitions between reds, greens and blues! [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's still open!]] That's absurd! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps Mr Strache did, I don't know. You have an opportunity to comment on this! It is a very common issue in this proposal. Mr Molterer, Mr Schüssel, you may have heard that in the past legislative period, almost 50 percent of all legislative proposals have been adopted unanimously here in Parliament. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It was a good government!]] No one has said that there is suddenly a central coalition between ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ, right? But there it was, of course, together with you, and that is why you have taken note of this benevolently! But as a Member of this House, you must also take note of this once a request has been made against you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After 20 years in opposition, we are used to this, and there has also been a free opposition for long enough. We will certainly not give a good thing because of that, because once again Mr Strache is there. For example, even with Jörg Haider, who has really been our main opponent for the last 15 or 20 years, we have always been of one opinion at a point: As long as he felt that the division of the country into red and black, the division of all posts between social democrats and conservatives from the ÖVP, the proporz in pure culture, could not continue, we naturally shared his opinion on this point. That Jörg Haider made the same thing in orange, it's on another leaf! But as long as he represented this policy, of course we were of one opinion, and no one came to the idea that this could suddenly be a coalition between Van der Bellen and Haider or whoever. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Now it's over!]] – The voluntary limit on speaking time is right out, Mr colleague; I must let you down! On the election of the Bureau today: We are very glad that for the first time in the history of the Second Republic and in the history of parliamentarianism in Austria a woman is elected President of the National Council, not any woman, but Barbara Prammer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] May. Barbara Prammer appears to be very well suited for this office, bringing a lot of experience. She was Vice-President of the Upper Austrian Landtag, State Councillor, Federal Minister and Second President here. – With our votes, Mrs Prammer, you can at least count. I also welcome the candidate of Dr. Michael Spindelegger, the future Second President of the National Council. Its focus has been on foreign policy so far, and I think it is a very good combination if we also have a foreign policy expert at the National Council Bureau in the future. You're not gonna hurt me if I say, Even more so, we would have liked to see certain considerations that you can certainly understand if the entire Bureau of the National Council had been made up of women. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is discrimination against men!]] But this does not change the fact that we also strongly support your candidate for the second President, Mr President, I say before. Dr Eva Glavischnig, I believe, is our sign of how important we are to Parliament and how important the Green Members are to Parliamentaryism. Eva Glawish is a now experienced politician, young in years, but not “freischg’fangte”: It is and was our voice for environmental protection, for nature conservation and for the rights of women in our modern society. And I am sure that this vote will not be silent even after its election to the Third President – if you give us this goodwill. However, I am sure that Eva Glavischnig will have the strictest neutrality and strictest objectivity in the management of the meetings here in the National Council, and I will ask my colleagues in the club meeting not to drive it so far that we are the first to receive a call for order from the Third President. I would just like to say briefly to the separate Bureau: We were sometimes in the clinic with President Khol, yes, but outside of Parliament. On political issues outside Parliament, we have sunk with President Khol as an important and central representative of the ÖVP in Austrian politics. But here in the house it was usually possible to make the decisions in consensus. We also congratulate Mr Khol on the construction and opening of the house that many more people are now coming here and can experience everything, so to speak, close to life. ==References== October I passed the ring, and it happened to me on the Tauern motorway: There was apparently blockage for the visitors to the house, so great was the urge and the interest to look at how we work here. But we also want to work here and not wait forever until the new government stands! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3099	This is what Mr Strache has to say. His welcome time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3121	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October, the Sovereign brought an election outcome that we have to take note of. This sovereign has expressed at least for us, namely the Freedom Party, that betrayal that has taken place in our ranks is not honoured, so that we are represented here today with 21 mandates and have also become stronger compared to the 2002 election result. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This makes me proud, of course, because we have shown that the Freedom Party has found itself and is also recognized in the Austrian population. We will be with this mission and this task, which we will be on 1st. October was transferred, very consciously and cautiously handled and fulfilled this mission in the interest of the Austrian population and in the interest of the Austrian homeland. Of course, there will be priorities. Our priorities will be that we will live a democratic culture of conversation in this House. There are different political attitudes of the parliamentary parties represented here, but it is important to live a democratic culture of conversation. [[Abg. Grandruck: Then live them once!]] To date, it is unfortunately true that there is a political group in this House which is not yet ready to maintain democratic culture of conversation in this case with our political party. That's worrying! We take note of this. Until now, the chairman of the ÖVP did not think it worth talking to the chairman of the Freedom Party at all. – This is not the democratic culture of conversation that we imagine! We'll handle this differently: We talk to all parties, and we also say that there are different political opinions, but there are also similarities. It is nonsense to say that there are no similarities with social democracy or also with the Green Party or with the Austrian People's Party! Of course, there are these in various fields. And we will not live here a damp exclusion, but where it is in the interests of the Austrians, we will, of course, also define common ground and try to formulate common proposals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References====External links== October 2006 is the day of the rebirth of the Freedom Party, that Freedom Party, in which one can also establish that we alone deserve the name “Freedom.” That's a nice day for us! We will also live the course we took over a year ago with our work here in this House. We have a special position on many issues, such as the question of Turkey's accession to the European Union, in which all other political competitors in this House have expressed their support for accession negotiations. We reject Turkey's accession to the European Union and consequently accession negotiations as well. That's what we've fixed. Of course, this special position is still being lived and persecuted by us here. In the end, we have also had to note that there have been developments in recent years and decades, which, for example, affect our population in the form of globalisation madness. To this end, we had to draw attention to the fact that the shear between the poor and the empire continues to break apart and the middle class breaks down. In this respect, we really have a responsibility to resist, even in the field of demographic development. Today, in Austria, we are in a situation where a child is being deported every 15 minutes: Four children are expelled every hour, 30,000 Austrian children are being deported each year! – In this respect, too, we should consider how family promotion programmes can ultimately ensure that families can afford more children again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will also be important for us to put emphasis on another question, namely the strengthening of direct democracy in Austria. We had to experience, precisely on the question of the Constitution of the European Union, that all other political competitors in this House also voted in favour of a centralist constitution of the European Union and did not allow for it, but prevented it. And that's a dangerous way! – We want to ensure direct democracy and binding referendums on these sensitive issues, which affect all Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the future, I would like people's desires to be upgraded to include initiators of popular desire and the right to speak here. We have had to experience in the past that popular desires have often been shubbled and people's desires that have been supported with high citizenship have simply been pushed aside and not taken seriously. It would be important to upgrade this area of direct democracy with a popular desire to ensure that initiators are given a right of speech here and can also justify it. Ladies and gentlemen! Many things will have to be done, and we should not, of course, put the separation in the foreground here in this House, but rather work out the commons. We'll do this from our side. We will not refuse to define common ground with all the other political groups. On the election of the Presidents: We too will, of course, wish all three Presidents to be elected, and we will also give them the right way. We hope that, above all, because a woman will be elected President for the first time in history, the objectivity in this House will also improve compared to the past! – In the past, we have certainly noticed that objectivity has not been guaranteed and lived in our direction. We will therefore also take very cool note of the departure of the previous President. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] We hope that this objectivity will be revived in this House in the future. In this respect, we are quite good things. We also note that whatever we have lived, we now also comply with: We have always said that it is in the Second Republic of Uzance that the third strongest party has a right, according to votes, to appoint the Third National Council President. That is why, even though we have become scarce but yet most powerful in this Republic, we have, of course, refrained from making a candidate of our own for the election of the Third President of the National Council, for we are holding what we say in the public, and we stand by it! Furthermore, we hope that Professor Van der Bellen does not see it as he did in the last election of the Presidents of the National Council, that the Second and Third Presidents in reality have no power and therefore both do nothing. I have remembered your speech in the last election of the Presidents of the National Council, and you have noted it. I find out for us: All our presidents are important to us, and we will, of course, do everything we can to present this third force in Austria in the future and to reach this place again. But we take note that you have become third parties, though scarcely! For us to say goodbye We look forward to a democratic culture of conversation that we are going to live and can only invite all the other parties and groups that they do not refuse to do so and that they do not automatically reject everything that comes from another party, as has often happened in the past. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who's taking good-bye?]] I think that this would be a profit for democracy! We are democrats, and I hope that this will also be lived by other political groups in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3212	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. His welcome time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3233	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting: Mr Gusenbauer mentioned the wisdom of the voters today. – However, the wisdom of the results of the election is essentially based on the knowledge gained by the voters before the election day. You and your group, and also Mr Van der Bellen and his group, have always promised the voters high and holy before the election day, with the FPÖ and Mr Strache and, of course, with the BZÖ and Mr Westenthaler there can never be cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No coalition!]] Today we have the first session after the elections in Parliament, and what is the first thing to do? – A common request from Cap, Pilz and Strache! Wonderful! Is this the wisdom you've previously been strapping? Is this the wisdom that the elector has, but you do not seem to want to be true? [[Calls to the Greens.]] It is not about making a request and agreeing to someone else. Rather, this is the case, in such a way that everyone notices it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I wonder, Professor Van der Bellen, whether you are already hot with Mr Strache. You have to ask yourself this very slowly. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] You really have to ask that if there is a common application and suddenly no more barriers. Mr Gusenbauer, that already has a serious background. A few days ago – I am now drawing a comparison from the sport – you ran to the field with a team from your party and from the ÖVP to form and negotiate a coalition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Today we know – and there's nothing hidden, Mr. Van der Bellen, that's all open – but you've been on the field with this team, but you've been playing in a different place for a long time! That's what the Austrians know. Because you're walking around between red, green and blue. [[Abg. May. Hauser: We control!]] This is the understanding, and I understand that if a negotiating partner shows concern and if this cannot be understood by a negotiating partner. I would also not understand that one is officially negotiating with the ÖVP and, in reality, in the secret chamber with strache and [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Van der Bellen negotiates applications – and perhaps a new government as well; who knows what you have discussed! The parliamentary climate, Mr Gusenbauer, is also not a one-way road. They have conducted the negotiations on this request very specifically. For example, you did not involve the BZÖ Group in these discussions, and you did not involve others either. They have conducted this very purposely in order to ensure here, so to speak, a demonstration of power that it is quite simple for red and green, also to get a pretty wild competitor, Mr Strache of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Brosz: What do you have to hide?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Only he was at least consistent, that must be granted to him! [[Abg. You don't have to worry about it!]] This was consistent before the election, because he has always wanted a red Chancellor, and he has also said that he will support a red minority government. That's why he remained consistent in this little game you're playing here. [[Cheerfulness as well as applause with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] So that's about the coalition negotiations – and it's a sad game that is taking place a few weeks after the election. It is also to be questioned what is happening here officially and unofficially in negotiations. We will observe this closely and, of course, the Austrians will also clarify it in the sense of the control mandate we see from the BZÖ. If you take the inspection order so seriously, this afternoon you will have the opportunity to vote in favour of our request to use the BAWAG Investigation Committee. That is what we are looking at very carefully, Mr Gusenbauer, whether you are doing this. [[Abg. May. Hauser: That's what we're doing!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the election of the Presidents, there are three candidates to be elected to the highest office of the Republic today. This is a very important state policy function after the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, as President of the National Council, so to speak, also as guardian of the Austrian Constitution, together with the Constitutional Court. This is a high responsibility for each individual. There are – and we have always seen this in the past – uses, according to the strong relationship of the parties which the voters have elected to parliament. These uses are hard for us. They have, of course, always been a thing of course for us in the past, and therefore a commitment for us today. That is why there is, of course, this advance of confidence for President Prammer, who has already made a good figure in this office in the past. This advance of confidence will exist. It is also good that a woman has such a high state position in that country. I am convinced that it will carry out this very objectively, even in accordance with the principles of objective parliamentaryism. Of course, our confidence also applies to the Second President, Dr. Spindelegger, nominated by the ÖVP, whom I also personally met here in the House as a very fair partner, as very object-oriented Members, in which I have no concern that he will respect the possible and offered objectivity. It's a little difficult with the green candidate. One must of course remember, Professor Van der Bellen, that it is you and your group who have always questioned this use and have always said it – there is a whole lattice of quotations here –: It can't be that this use is being observed. In recent years, you have always put up candidates for the third group. You have now become exactly one hundredth of a third of a percentage, I congratulate you on that. That is why we will, of course, also acknowledge the use that you are nominating a candidate. I would just like to ask you, Madame – I may take this for granted – President Glavischnig that you too should be an example of extraparticipality. We would like it very much – and perhaps this is a advice – if you might have the chance to relinquish the high party position you hold as Deputy Party Head. This would be of benefit to the House and to the objectivity of a President, and we would wish that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I do not, of course, want to mention the outgoing President Andreas Khol. With Andreas Khol, one of the probably most distinguished parliamentarians in this House today. He was always a reliable partner with handshake quality, who often carried his political passion on his tongue, and Austria always in his heart. I am personally – and I say this here in full conviction – also very grateful to him for the beginning of 2000, when we started our way through the “desert Gobi” together. This was not easy, but we have implemented very, very good projects together: the integration agreement, the settlement new, the children's money or even a balanced budget – all in the context of a difficult start-up phase, namely the EU sanctions, which we have successfully fought here in the House and have ultimately successfully managed to get out of the world. It was a successful time. She was good for Austria, and she was significantly co-designed by Andreas Khol. 23 years in Parliament, nine years of Clubobmann, four years of president, and also a political success report: This is already a good example for many young and new Members who have come to the house here. He is one of the great ones, he will go into the history of Austria as one of the great politicians. He has also left his traces in history. I wish him all the best personally, as well as happiness and health for his new life span! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[12:06]] [[12:06:07]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3381	I declare the following: Deputies Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Peter Pilz, H.-C. In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of fighter aircraft. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote will take place after the urgent question has been completed. I also announce: Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues have a request in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, a Committee of Inquiry on the closer examination of political and legal responsibility in connection with the BAWAG scandal. Furthermore, this is the case of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The debate and the vote will take place after completion of the agenda following the debate just announced on the first request concerning an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3440	President. — The debate is closed. Its preferred speaking time is 5 minutes; the remaining speaking time of the SPÖ Group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3461	Mr President. High house! There must be a small misunderstanding of the way in which a Parliament has to work: This is not about mussels and cuddles and anything else, but it is about a need of the citizen, the taxpayer, the taxpayer that, if there are items worthy of investigation, they are also examined. This is a deeply democratic instrument of Parliament! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One should not make fun of it, and one should not question it if one of the objects of an investigation does not fit. I think it's worth defending. And we confess that there must be this investigation committee here – no matter whoever, with any majority – when it comes to putting light in the dark, for example in the case of the Causa of purchase and the type decision concerning Eurofighter! They are cordially invited, and it's not too late yet. We can also sit down in the next few hours and speak personally about supporting this request so that the work of the Committee of Inquiry can be started. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the FPÖ.]] Do you know, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, how you always evaluate it, between smart and not wise – smartly most of you, not cleverly everyone else – or, apart from that, if it does not fit you, and together, when your position is finally realized to 100 percent: [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] This is not a combination, it is not a partnership, I do not understand it under democratic parliamentaryism. One must be compatible, one must also be able to respond to the other. This is an important prerequisite for it to work here. We confess that there is a different relationship between all of us here in the next legislative period! No exclusion, no! I also believe that changes should be made in the Rules of Procedure. It should also be a minority right to set up the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the FPÖ.]] There should be a fundamental opening to the public at committee meetings. It is intended to apply citizens' initiatives, popular desire, Court of Auditors' reports, the public prosecutor's office beyond the legislative period. Facilitating citizens' initiatives – yes, this Parliament needs to be closer to citizens! It's not supposed to be a distance, it's supposed to be close here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the FPÖ.]] You know, it's not just that we're dealing with each other rationally or that we're working out these similarities politically where there's commonplace. Behind every group here in the house are voters, Austrians and Austrians! They should have the feeling, even if they did not choose us, the SPÖ, that some political point of their party, which they have chosen and which is sitting here, also comes to us for understanding that we are looking for dialogue here and perhaps we want to come to results together. This is a new kind of parliamentarism, and we must try to implement it and that this transparency will also be mediated. I would like to say to Mr Khol that I too wish to mention the opening up of Parliament positively. And I would like to say that, at the day of the open door, when more than 20,000 people are present here, we should in future ensure that Members are in the house too. It is not only here to admire the architecture – this is beautiful, and Mr President Khol has a lot of positive changes to answer – no, it should also be found with us when thousands and thousands of citizens come to Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Yes, you too should come, Mrs Brinek! – That, I think, would be necessary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Klubobmann Van der Bellen spoke to me from the heart – not always, but already today – and he is right: He calls for work to be done! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, it is to be worked out to speed up negotiations. You cannot stand on the pedal with a foot on the brake and with a foot on the gas pedal; You should take your foot away from the brake pedal so that you can finally work once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] We are not paid to open up the state of affairs, but to do something for this country that we are quick to reach an agreement, SPÖ and ÖVP, so that we can finally work for this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Make suggestions!]] Don't make the excuse with the investigative committee! Do you know what you did first at the minority cabinet of Bruno Kreisky in the early 1970s? – You have requested an investigation committee to investigate the purchase of the interceptors. That's what you did. Stephan Koren was Klubobmann of the ÖVP, and so it was. You've done a lot worse. Skill Do you recall the mistrust of ÖVP representatives against the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lichal? - You've done all of this! Let's leave the church in the village! I am overjoyed that Barbara Prammer is running for the President of the National Council. We will support them with passion. I would like to thank Mr Prinzhorn for showing a very mild leadership of the plenary sessions. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] We have missed so many calls for order at this session. I would also like to thank Mr Andreas Khol and add the following: I can remember that we often had events before which we said: Now we are looking for a real conservative, who also expresses what many have thought or thought. We always landed at Andreas Khol, and he never disappointed us! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] He never disappointed us. He came and said what's going on, we could say what's going on, and the audience was excited. Dear Andreas, I have to tell you, you will be invited further by us. There is no definitive separation between us here. You were fair, not always flawless – but who can say that he is flawless? We Social Democrats are the first to be very self-critical. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Greens.]] But he really showed a fair presidency, and it was often a hard fight, charred without end! Almost I'm inclined to say: Dear Andreas Khol, I'm gonna miss you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3596	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. The Group's remaining speaking time: Seven minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3617	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A newly elected Parliament, a new composition: We now have five parties – we had this once again – there is a new seat order and a new Bureau soon. All three candidates are experienced parliamentarians. The rule of law and parliamentaryism are among their principles, and I am convinced of that. And of all three, we MEPs expect an objective Presidency. Madam President, Mr Prammer has already demonstrated in the past that she is presiding over the tradition of the House. Dr. Michael Spindelegger has declared it to be his principle and has also meant that this is a good tradition he wants to maintain. In the ÖVP club, Dr. Spindelegger emerged from a democratic election as the best candidate for this office. We are very, very confident, dear Michael, that you will certainly not be disappointed at the top of the chair, but will support us as Members of our work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen, as you would like to see another woman as President, I should like to remind you of the following: It was the ÖVP who first raised a woman in the presidential chair here in the National Council! She's here today; it was Marga Hubinek. Thank you, Marga, you broke a spearhead for the women in high positions! [[towards gallery]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, we also support Mrs Glawischnig's candidate, although we have already been somewhat irritated by her media statements. Klubobmann Van der Bellen mentioned it in his Laudatio for his candidate: It will endeavour to exercise this office objectively. Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! No one throws his mind overboard when he becomes president of the National Council. But it is a good tradition of the House that this office is carried out objectively and that, as President of this high office, one does not act Party-politically. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The new conditions – and this has already been mentioned by the previous speakers – have brought about a new approach to democratic results. Majorities in this House now either require the two major parties SPÖ and ÖVP to cooperate, or a large party cooperates with two of the three smaller parties. What has led to EU sanctions in 2000, which has led to demonstrations on Austria's roads, namely cooperation with a legal party that has so far been excluded, is today seen differently by SPÖ and Greens. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Joint decisions of a left-wing coalition are not only possible, but are likely to be created today. In the meantime, SPÖ and Greens no longer have any fears of contact with the Strache FPÖ, even though they told voters something completely different before the election. Mr Van der Bellen! You and we all know here that the Eurofighter procurement process is the most tried-and-tested purchase of this Republic. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is already grammatically wrong and then still...!]] Several Court of Auditors audits, seven advertisements at the public prosecutor's office, special commissions that have taken the type decision, several special meetings here in the High House have taken a unanimous look at this procurement process. Therefore, I do not believe that you are involved in examining this Eurofighter procurement process, but it is, as we all know, a committee of inquiry also a political tribunal, probably with the aim of trying to settle the small coalition, and therefore, how should it change? – in a three-way coalition on the left – street. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, only so that it is clear: In the event of an investigation committee, the EIA will not refuse to do so in the course of the work. We will, of course, cooperate, but we will also show what the actual background is. While Cap takes the word “minority government” into the mouth, in the afternoon a coalition with shackles forged, your speech seemed more like an election speech to me. I have to say that quite honestly. But we want to work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Constitutional reform, administrative reform, red tape, poverty reduction, security for citizens, for social networks, for economic sites, for jobs – some difficult but sometimes consistent. [[Abg. Broukal: The education you have forgotten! Education!]] – Education, too, Mr Broukal, also education! We have an order to work for the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with a quote from Walter Scheel: [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] “It cannot be the task of a politician to shut down public opinion and then do the popular. The task of the politician is to do the right thing and make it popular.” In this sense, the ÖVP is trying to do the right thing here in the House. Finally, I would like to thank President Khol. It has really helped parliamentarianism a great step further: both what the work and the image are about to do. We too will miss him!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3710	Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek has now arrived at the speaker's desk. The remainder of her group's speaking time is 4 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3734	Mr President. High house! It has been around 90 years since this House discussed and decided on the right to vote in women's elections. There were also critical voices at the time, warning voices. There have been Members who have warned against letting women into the wildest drive of politics. – We don’t have that anymore. However, we are still a good piece away from giving women full equality, especially with regard to political power in Austria. It is certainly a very nice signal, however, that for the first time in the history of First and Second Republics a woman is at the head of the National Council and, I too should be elected, the Bureau of this House is mostly female. However, the proportion of women in Parliament is still something we should work on across parties. I believe that a large population group in Austria is expecting this full equality in political power. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] ==References== In October, the Austrian population elected the Austrian National Council, not the government, the Austrian Parliament. The old Members, who have returned to this House, and the new Members have also been defended with the vow formula on the Austrian federal constitution, which also includes human rights and fundamental rights. It will certainly also be part of my work to keep in mind the respect of the federal constitution, fundamental rights and human rights. My understanding of this role and its role is of course to defend, preserve and expand Parliament as the heart of Austrian democracy. I am therefore on a subject which has subcutaneously dominated all the previous speeches, namely on the question of control. Of course, control is also in the sense of the controlled. Control increases the quality of decisions. It is something that should not only take place in the interests of the population, but above all also influence political decisions on the positive. This is the case all over the world, this is true in days of land, and I believe that a committee of inquiry should, of course, be a minority right and so on. This is in the interests of the audited – and not directed against them! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I also believe that both the control bodies which have this House, which Parliament has, namely the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors, should be strengthened and further expanded. I believe that the Court of Auditors needs more auditing skills and no less. I also believe that the public prosecutorship, which is in contact with the citizens for hours because of the increasingly complex laws, must take note of more complaints than this House's instrument needs to be upgraded, and I also believe that we should perhaps take the initiatives seriously by means of an initiative right. More control and no less is in the sense of the efficiency of democracy. That is, as I believe, something that the people expect, namely that Parliament not only supports, but, of course, also the government, but always keeps in mind control. And that will also be very much my task. One last, one more personal word. There was the discussion in the ÖVP whether a man or a woman should be sent to the National Council Bureau. Mrs Fekter, you have the reason for this. It was a democratic election. I would nevertheless like to make a point, although we will also support Mr Spindelegger. It was said that “mixed sentences” as well as wine would be better here. I wish this view of “mixed sentences ” However, always and not only for the future, but also for the past, considering that there have been only three women in the Austrian National Council Bureau so far. So I wish that “mixed sentences” will not only be a matter of course with wine in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3794	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Requested time: 5 minutes, but you have 7 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3815	Mr. Federal President! Mr President. High house! It will be decided today at this meeting to set up investigative committees. I wonder about the excitement about it. It is not to be denied that, in recent years, the Eurofighter and its procurement process have created a massive debate in domestic policy, a discussion that has not led to any final clarification. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yes, that's clear!]] I think it must be in everyone's interest that there is clarity here. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] As far as the joint motion is concerned, Mrs Fekter, I am surprised that you find it discrediting that the Freedom Party is standing on a request. Aside from the fact that I reject any desavowing of my family, I should also like to remind you that it was you who did not go to a government twice for our benefit, namely in 1999 and 2002 with the Freedom Party. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We didn't choose you!]] We are not and of course not our Obmann Heinz-Christian Strachewünschern a red German chancellor. There can't be any talk about that. Stache and also we have got a vote, like any Austrian. We analyze it and take note. We conclude that it will be important for you both to negotiate with each other, i.e. the big parties. By the way, we do not consider a vote to be a democratic accident. I also think that there was so much wisdom that the Austrians are smart and will recognize a pretext for a new election as a pretext. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] High house! We're at the beginning of a new era. Criticism and an open word belong to the essence of democracy, and that is what leads us to say an open word here today. In the confusion surrounding the division to the BZÖ, we had to trust that high personalities in this country, beyond their party-political ties, preserve objectivity and the rule of law. Mr President, we have not seen this hope fulfilled in you. You have accompanied a benevolent process that one of your predecessors referred to as “the laurel of the rule of law. ” Mr President, we wish you: May Your new life span is successful and happy! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's bad style!]] [[Abg. Strache: A justified response to a bad process!]] In this first session, however, it must also be said in principle. After all, politics cannot be exhausted in the daily solution to problems, but politics must be meant to lead its country into the future. This, of course, requires long-term perspectives, strategic considerations aimed at the basics. Let me briefly present one of our main points to you, as long as I still have time to do so. Policy is based on the economic and social structure of the state, and the economic and social construction of the state is based on demographics. Demography is the basis of everything! A country, that is, “land and people. ” The success path of Austria shows it very clearly. Austria is a country in an unfavorable climate zone, we hardly have any land treasures – it is the talent and zeal of these people who have done what it is today from this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For 30 years the demographic downward trend was not noted, one was blind on the demographic eye. Now, by the way, there is a danger that under guidance those who have not just led this debate, but have suppressed, a path will be taken in the wrong direction and other valuable years will pass away. Mr President, Mr Khol, I come back here on one of your very much appreciated, keen Bonmots. They once said not to be infected by “your own derision. ” – This is particularly important on this issue, because as far as the extreme lack of birth and the dangerous development is concerned, especially for the social state, but also for the state as a whole, this has been ignored and now seems willing to take the wrong course. Let me briefly mention and disprove two arguments, which will clearly not lead to the objective. One thing is: It doesn't do that much! We will increase productivity. – Currently, the relationship between beneficiaries and contributors is 1 : 3. Soon – if we allow ourselves to think a little beyond the day – in less than one generation it will be 1: 1. Do we want to triple productivity? Can this take anyone seriously, especially in view of the lack of consumers? There will be no need for additional pediatricians. We're going to have to cut down teachers. No one will be able to say that 60-70-year-olds will decide to build a new house. The economy has long gone down the demography. Second argument: We'll control it by immigration. – The immigration we had so far has long proved that it brings more damage than benefits. But even if we are able to import service providers from other countries: What an inhumane process! Already more doctors from Malawi are working in Manchester than in Malawi itself. It can't be! We're not going to come around treating families just at last. And I say to the end: Without your own children, this country will have no future!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3938	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Scheibner. 7 minutes wish-, 8 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Some here in the High House have not yet got used to the fact that the election campaign is over. Mr Cap has once again spoken of an open Parliament. But the spectator does not know what he meant by that, because that does not mean to him that you only look at the building, but that you also want to have contact with the Members. What did Col. Cap mean by that? Mr Cap wanted in the presidency an approval – which he does not need at all, but for his boss, colleague Gusenbauer – that colleague Gusenbauer with colleague Cap and SPÖ members may operate party-political agitation on the day of the open door. Mr Cap, this is not the open Parliament! The election campaign is over! People want to work, but don't see their faces again and get your papers. We have now experienced this long enough, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say that you want minority rights, minority rights, you want to strengthen a committee of inquiry – which is bad about it. – Nothing is bad at all, Mr Cap, why do we not already have a constitutional reform in which we have reorganised parliamentary rights? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Because you prevented it!]] I prevented it?- Oh, my God! Mr Cap, you are still moving in this election campaign where you can't see anything, hear nothing, and the past doesn't matter. Mr Colleague, ask your popular lawyer Kostelka, who has been the negotiator of your party in the Constitutional Convention! Then perhaps you will get the answer to why all these questions have not yet been clarified, because, as in other questions, you have prevented an agreement in the Constitutional Convention with your party political glasses, because you have said: Nothing can come of it, because that would be a success for the government! We wanted to clarify exactly these things – but you prevented that! – But now set As if you were the guardian of democracy, law and parliamentarianism here in Austria, Mr. von der SPÖ. Courage for honesty is always in demand. This is a difficult matter for you – I know – but you should, as I said, get used to the fact that the election campaign is over. Mr. Strache, courage to be honest with you, too. It's all right for you to give your speech here and make your content, but if you're a little bit... – Well, I'm very gracious, of course. [[Abg. Strache: Very gracious!]] And if you were a bit gracious with yourself, you wouldn't quite forget that, for example, in the question of Turkey – that was a real honor, you know, we two were then assigned to define the Turkey line literally. That was also the line of the government back then. We have, literally, formulated the Turkey line. However, two days later you have returned from your own line. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Partnership instead of accession was the line! As always, then, you fell by!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If you discuss the EU Constitution and criticize it, then do not forget that behind, unfortunately, the last row of Mr Bösch, who was the negotiator for the EU Constitution, has often praised the successes achieved by Austria during these negotiations from the speaker's desk. So, if we're honest, then you should also present it in all directions. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, you have found yourself: an axis of red, green and blue in the matter of Eurofighter. Of course, we are not afraid of this committee. [[Abg. Oils: It looks like this!]] And, of course, it is legitimate to investigate everything. No question, although your representatives have seen it differently for a long time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Look, look!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was that?]] However, the background is not to explain something here, because – and I quote Bösch again – this procurement is the best investigated procurement at all in the history of the Second Republic: three Court Reports, several ads have been filed, countless urgent requests – we will have today, I believe, the 15th or 20th. It's about something completely different! It is a question of two left-wing parties, Green and Red, unfortunately, with your help, Mr Strache, once again against the principles of defence, against the protection of the home country of Austria. You're in here. This is your responsibility, and we will show it accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also revealing that Mr Pilz – he is sitting here in the middle now – said: Yes, a BAWAG investigation committee is already important, but the Eurofighters are more important. – So the largest financial scandal in the history of the Second Republic, €4 billion damage, €900 million State liability by the taxpayer, in which there are also clear political backgrounds for which the charges are now ready! You don't think it's so important to explain that. What is important is the Party's agitation against the security of Austria! You should put that clearly on the table. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, at a first session after an election, one would expect to debate the important future issues of the country, but that was not important to you either. [[Abg. Broukal: Please!]] – Yes, my colleague! Unfortunately, we are not so strong, I admit it openly that we can be the first to make urgent requests. We would have liked to discuss with you the absurd demand for a basic guarantee, so someone should get 800 € per month without any performance, while others don't even have the salary so high. We would have liked to discuss this with you! This was not possible, however. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They also do not want to discuss job creation. You're the number one now. You are the strongest group. You would have had the opportunity to discuss jobs today, safeguard pensions, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, from me also about your basic security or tax relief. What will a future government do to further reduce the tax burden on citizens? These would have been all very, very interesting topics. No, no, no, They are the only subject of airspace surveillance. I say to you that, for me, airspace monitoring is very, very important, but the most important issue in Austria is not here on the first day of the session after a national election. Ladies and gentlemen, this will have to be judged accordingly by the voters and the people. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Where are the priorities? – Yes, you can now laugh overly. [[towards SPÖ]] You've lost hold less than the ÖVP and that's why you've now become number one. But neither have you won, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! But now it is a redeployment of the Bureau. Mr. Klubobmann Peter Westenthaler has already said: Of course, we accept – and there you can see how the circumstances change; in the past the Greens saw this differently and did other candidates – the right of nomination. I say to you, however, that we do not support the female candidates because they are women, but because we are convinced that they can take over this function at least as well as any other male candidate, because the performance should not be measured according to sex, but according to their own abilities, my Ladies and gentlemen, we trust them. We only hope that this office, as well as its predecessors, will be guided objectively, independently of any party policy. There will be a rejuvenation in the Bureau. This is certainly nothing bad, but still it is very important to place on objectivity. I would like to thank President Prinzhorn once again for his work. At the time, 1999 I proposed him against major resistance here in the House. He did his job very well. I too wish him all the best for his next life outside politics. Mr President, we two have made a significant contribution to the successful governance of this country in recent years, namely in 1999 and 2000, when the two club members conducted the government negotiations. If we look at the balance sheet for the last seven years and compare it with what might be threatening government here in this left-wing area, we can be quite proud of what has been said.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4151	The debate is now closed. No one is reported in the word anymore. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4169	Before we proceed to the electoral process, I may announce: Deputies Mag. Kogler, Dr. Herbs, Strache, Colleagues and Colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests the establishment of an investigative committee on financial market supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers. The debate on this has not been called for. That is to say, in the afternoon at 3 p.m., the urgent question first comes to the debate, then to the debate on a request from the Social Democrats, then to the debate and vote on a request from the BZÖ, then this request is not discussed, but according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote will take place at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4189	Ladies and gentlemen! There is a desire to hold the elections we are now holding in election cells. I shall therefore proceed in this way. Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4211	The first is the election of the President/President of the National Council. There is a proposal for an election on power. Barbara Prammer before. However, I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be secret to the election of the President/President, acting by a vote. I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes to make the appropriate arrangements for the secret election. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4260	The preparations are over. I can ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. Since there are a number of new Members who do not know the elections, I really ask for attention. I will resume the interrupted sitting and ask the author, Mr Mag. Kogler, get ready. Ladies and gentlemen! The minutes to be used shall be issued by the registrar, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the registrar, of the members of the Parliament's Directorate. For the election, use only this official voting paper. The name of the desired candidate(s) shall be written on this official ballot in the election cell. A candidate is proposed, Mag. Barbara Prammer; so write down that name or anything else. After completing the poll in the electoral cell, it shall be cast into the urn provided. Mr Huainigg asked me to vote from his place. I would ask the author if Mr Huainigg is called upon to send to him a Member of Parliament who will bring Mr Huainigg's constituency. He then fills it up, the staffman accepts it and throws it into the urn. I now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes on behalf of the scribe and then go to one of the voting cells. Where is the Lord's scribe? - Please. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Here!]] I'd almost now. Quote Van der Bellen: He's coming late, but he's coming – Count Isolani. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4298	Mr President, if you allow me: Obviously it is also difficult for me to separate myself from you, and I hesitate to do so. [[General hustle and bustle.]] It also accompanies my congratulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4325	Is there any caller who still has to give his vote? - That's not the case. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4365	I'll start the interrupted session again. May I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat? I now announce the results of the election: Members cast: 182; of which: 166. The absolute majority of valid votes are 84. It was for power. Barbara Prammer135 votes; others: [[General acknowledgment]] 31; invalid: 16. [[The remaining votes were for the MEPs: Broukal: 2, Bures: 1, Dr. Cap: 4, Csörgits: 2; Eder Kurt: 1, Mag. Dr. Fekter: 1, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 1, Dr. Gusenbauer: 1, Hagenhofer: 3, Köfer: 5, Mag. Kuntzl: 6, Rosary: 1, Silhavy: 1, Mag. Worm: 2.]] That's Mrs.Mag. Barbara Prammerzur President of the National Council. I ask the newly elected President whether she accepts the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4435	Mr President, I would like to take the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4462	I very much congratulate the newly elected President on his election. Before inviting the newly elected President to take over the presidency, I may address a few words to you at the end of my term of office as President of the National Council, as is usual in the House. [[13:43:37]] Farewell address of President Dr. Andreas Khol
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4495	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! For 23 years this house was an important house of my life. I started in the back seat there. [[pointing to the rear banking series of the ÖVP Group]] Then I moved on, became Klubobmann, after all your president was allowed to be. I would like to ask you all who went this way with me are very, very cordial for your support, but also for your critical words. I've been able to make a lot of things. I only mention a few things where there have always been broad majority, where we have worked together. I would also like to thank Peter Kostelka at this point, who was Clubobmann with me when we worked together in a large coalition. At that time we carried out a major reform of the Rules of Procedure with the extension of minority rights; we have decided, since then essentially existing, on the EU's accession, the international security of the autonomy of South Tyrol and the National Fund for the Victims of National Socialism. – So all the works that are in Parliament itself. I want to thank Peter Westenthaler and Herbert Scheibner. With both – in another government – we were able to decide on the provision of staff in the broad consensus of the house; we were able to decide on all the restitution laws, from the reconciliation fund to the general compensation fund, and have brought a whole series of other laws on the stage. I would like to thank you and the President-in-Office for the fact that we have changed a lot in the House and carried on a lot. As far as the "open Parliament" is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it was the President-in-Office's conference, which together has continued what started under the then President-in-Office of Parliament and today's President Dr Heinz Fischer, and has now led us to welcome more than 20,000 people here in one day of the open door and that the annual number of visitors has more than doubled. I am also pleased that the conflict around the Epstein Palace has been resolved and, in agreement with all those who were interested in making this wonderful building available to the public and to you, ladies and gentlemen, as a workplace. A great revolution – and I am particularly grateful to the officials of the house – was the paperless Parliament. Many of you will still remember the heavy suitcases you had to wear on the left and right. We have replaced everything with the laptop and thus saved € 7 million in a single year. And I think it didn't damage the quality of work, but rather it improved it. We have jointly decided to amend our Rules of Procedure, which has strengthened Parliament's participation in European legislation, we have achieved subsidiarity control in negotiations with the European Parliament, and we have also been able to form the regional partnership of Parliaments of Central Europe together. I would like to thank the President-in-Office very much, especially Wilhelm Molterer, Josef Cap, Herbert Scheibner and Alexander Van der Bellen. With Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammerand Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn was able to achieve a very good climate of consensus at the Presidential Conference. It is also known to the alternates who have been there all the time. A single decision was not in consensus, but was inevitable – it was the seat question. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Dr. Gusenbauer and Dr. Cap.]] – Yes, that’s an important question, but it was inevitable. I thank Josef Cap, Wilhelm Molterer, Herbert Scheibner and Alexander Van der Bellen also for the kind words. – I also feel I am kind to say, Mr Van der Bellen. We Tyroleans can't do that. – I also thank Peter Westenthaler for the kind words. Of course, what not all know is that such a conference, which manages such a difficult house, can only work if there are as great club directors as we have them that prepare in detail and shape this house in a good spirit and in a good mood. I would particularly like to thank the club directors for their work. I wish the newly elected President a presidential conference as I was allowed to have it. A group is in addition – we already had: five political groups; we already manage that. I wish you, Mrs Mag. Prammer, good luck and good luck for your work! I am convinced that you too will succeed in setting up in this House this spirit of cooperation, which is also reflected in the many unanimously adopted laws. - Good luck! I have a hope, ladies and gentlemen, and I can express them: I hope that Parliament will retain us as a central place of political discourse. This is intrinsically related to the right to vote. I am a persuasive supporter of the current proportional right, because small groups will not otherwise have the opportunity to come to Parliament and then the discourse will be transferred to the streets as in other countries. Here they must be, here must be the discussion! – I hope that will remain the same. I also hope that this Parliament will remain a central place of Austrian and Austrian legislation. There is the challenge of Brussels, the challenge of the European Parliament, the challenge of the European Council's governance legislation, which must be met. We have laid the rails for the participation of the Austrian National and Federal Councils in this legislation. Alone, I still have too few trains on these gels! It is a very laborious work, an annoying "food" to everything else, but I am convinced that the Austrian Parliament can only retain its importance if the trains drive here and if the participation in European legislation, which now allows the subsidiarity procedure, is used. Another hope – and then one more request to conclude: I hope that the realization of the challenge that we all have to meet, namely to make our work really remote, will be even wider than before. I have a request to conclude: Ladies and gentlemen, you know, together with my Tyrolean countrymen in all parties, it was my concern that we should be particularly committed to South Tyrol. We have set up a separate South Tyrol Subcommittee over many legislative periods. I had the honour to be the chairman of this committee, and I would ask you all to continue this subcommittee during this legislative period, and also to pay tribute to the promise we made, at least three of the four parties of that time, that we should anchor the role of Austria's protection role in the Constitution for South Tyrol. I would like to say to the newly elected Member: It is a wonderful task to be a Member of Parliament here, a lot of effort, a lot of effort. It is human service, and it is service to the Republic. And I would like to call you, as Schiller’s Ode says, “To joy”: “Run, brothers, your course, joyous, like a hero to victory!” – This is not entirely gender-friendly, but it is also possible to think of the sisters. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor: In terms of content, I do not want to say anything – since everyone knows how I stand – but in my long time as a parliamentarian I have not experienced a German chancellor who was practically here at every plenary session and who was always available when he was called. And I would like to thank the President-in-Office – I hope that this will be sent, but, Mr President Dr. Fischer, we have worked with confidence and success in all stages of the different roles in which we are opposed, and I would like to tell you that much has gone over the Volksgarten much easier since your election as President of the Federal Republic of Germany. And I would like to thank you for that. I thank all the employees of this House. They're extraordinary, they do a lot. Let me conclude: Live the Republic of Austria! Live our beautiful home! - I'm sure you're alive. [[Long-term acclaim with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ and a congratulation with members of the FPÖ.]] I ask the newly elected President to take over the presidency. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[The outgoing President Dr. Andreas Khol leaves the Bureau, with a handshake by Dr. Schüssel, Mag. Molterer, Dr. Spindelegger, Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Cap, Dr. Van der Bellen, Strache, Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner and leave the meeting room.]] [[13:55]] [[13:55:19]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4678	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have accepted the choice with great joy and great gratitude. I am aware of the great responsibility I have taken over with this function, and I would like to thank you very, very much for your trust that you have placed in me and to be an objective President. First of all, let me thank you very much, very much, in my own name and on your behalf, my predecessor. Dr. Andreas Khol – he has just mentioned it – was a member of this House for 23 years, in various functions: as a Member of Parliament, as a clubman, as a third president and finally, the last four years, as President of the National Council. Dear Dr. Khol, I thank you for your efforts to create a consensual atmosphere at the Presidential Conference. I was able to experience this for two years. As President, it was always important for you to come to common solutions in the interests of parliamentarianism. I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the National Fund and in the compensation fund – you have also stressed this in your farewell speech. It was a work that was a big heart concern to both of us. And last but not least, I thank you for the great proof of confidence you gave me at the beginning of my term of office as the second President of the National Council. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for the work he has done on this subject. I think we can say that in recent years we have found an excellent, constructive work base – across all world-wide boundaries constructively and solution-oriented – and I thank you for it and wish you all the best personally! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the Third President of the National Council of the last legislative period, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, very cordial for the scientific cooperation. Unfortunately, he can't be here today, but of course our thanks also to him. There are many former Members here today, and it is a great need for me to thank all of them very, very cordially for the work done in the service of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I see among you many famous faces, but also many new Members. I wish you all much success for this exciting and responsible work in the service of the Austrian population. We are all Members of this House, are politicians, are politicians with our firm beliefs and beliefs. This is what we are working for, we are fighting for, we are discussing – sometimes very, very committed, especially here in this meeting room. And because this is so, you rightly expect an objective president who treats all parties equally. This begins in the constructive work in the new presidency, continues in the leadership of this House and becomes visible in the objective Presidency during the plenary session. As President, it is important to me to build a good working base with all parties, whether in government or in opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said about this: At the end of the last legislative period there have been more discussions about possible changes, improvements in the Rules of Procedure. It would be nice if we could make the intensive work of all of you more visible, because we all know: The work of Members is far more than the number of speeches held here in the House. The people must be able to understand what the duties of Members are, namely, on the one hand, we know that, of course, the consultation and decision-making of laws – the more transparent and the closer to citizens this happens, the more confidence the people have in our work – and on the other hand, the National Council has the important task of parliamentary control over the implementation of these laws. We are called on to constantly develop and improve the instruments of parliamentary control in the interests of the population. Nor should we be afraid to strengthen minority rights in the sense of effective control. Finally, as the National Council, we also come directly into contact with citizens, such as petitions, citizens' initiatives, popular desire, and we also need to keep thinking about improvements and improvements. I shall therefore allow myself, in the continuation of parliamentary practices, to invite all political groups to enter into further discussions on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is particularly important to open Parliament in a social, scientific and cultural discourse and for this discourse in addition to the day-to-day issues. Parliament. I will therefore continue the successful path of my predecessors and continue to force the opening of the House very much. Austria is a federal state, and therefore, for me, a good cooperation with the Federal Council is of course. It is my concern to have expressly said this today in my opening speech. The importance of international cooperation between parliaments has increased dramatically in recent years, and I am deeply convinced of that. I have had the experience of how important it is for all Members to have the opportunity to come into contact with Members of other parliaments. We have the instrument of parliamentary groups of friends to do so. In order to facilitate the work there, I will allow myself and intend to present the clubs with a new concept. Europe's policy is now an integral part of the National Council. The Austrian Parliament is involved in the implementation of European law, not only through the implementation of European directives, but also through timely information on the Community's projects in advance in order to lead the debates accordingly. For wider information to the public – Mr former President Dr. Khol has also spoken about it – the Rules of Procedure of the National Council since the last legislative period have provided for own plenary sessions to discuss EU issues. I am convinced that we are quite fair in our view that we also need a further development and that we also need to think very quickly about how we can increase this instrument in order to raise the interest of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In 1919 women were elected to the Austrian Parliament for the first time – at that time there were a few, namely eight women. At that time there were very few women in the Parliamentary Directorate, almost exclusively men were employed there. Today, 87 years later, there is a lot more female Members – but let me put this in motion: It would be good if the proportion of women in Parliament would rise again in the future and not fall. Of the 380 staff in the house, 202 are women. This positive development shows the need to take account of the changed working and living conditions of Members as well as of the staff of the House, and I will do so. Ladies and gentlemen! We are at the beginning of a large construction project, namely the reconstruction of the National Council meeting room. It no longer meets the requirements of modern session operations more than 50 years after its construction. Dr. Khol has already spoken about the Open Day. As part of this event, we have experienced the fact that visitors in particular were able to take a picture of the population and that they share our conviction that improvements are necessary in this room. It has already been decided in the presidential consensual with all political groups in the last legislative period to achieve better working conditions for Members in the context of a general reorganisation. On the one hand, we want to create modern working conditions for the Members of Parliament, and on the other hand, that is a very special concern to me, for all people, for Members as well as for visitors, for a Parliament, for a meeting room that is accessible and accessible to the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear employees of the house! Our work, our all work would not be feasible, would you not be the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, the many dedicated, highly motivated employees. Thank you very much for your work and I am looking forward to a good and constructive cooperation. I would also like to thank the staff of the parliamentary clubs; I too would particularly like to mention the club directors. Ladies and gentlemen! Among the visitors to today's constituent meeting there are also many members of our Members, and my greeting goes to them. On behalf of all of us I thank you for your support and understanding for our time-intensive work. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you and all of us a constructive and successful cooperation in the service of the Austrian population! [[General condolences.]] [[14:07]] [[14:07:43]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4812	I shall now continue on the agenda. We shall come to the election of the Second President. I am going to interrupt the session briefly so that the electorate cells can be put up again. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4847	I'll start the interrupted session again. There is a vote on Dr. Michael Spindelegger. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I now ask the author, Mr Mag. Werner Kogler to start with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4906	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has ended. I ask you: Has anyone not yet made use of his/her voting right? - That's not the case. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now vote, as before, and the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4941	I ask you to take your seat again and resume the interrupted session. I announce the results of the election. Members cast: 182; of which: 171; invalid: 11. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 86. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Spindelegger received 113 votes. [[General condolences.]] [[The remaining votes were for the Members: Mag. Dr. Fekter: 56, Jakob Auer: 1, Mag. Dr. Brader: 1.]] That's Mr. Dr. Michael Spindelegger elected Second President of the National Council. I ask you, Dr. Spindelegger, whether you accept the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5001	I thank you for your confidence and very much accept the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5023	I congratulate you on your choice and look forward to a good cooperation. I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:50]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Defence concerning exit from the Eurofighter Treaty (1/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5056	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 1/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5184	I give Mr. Dr. Cap as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5206	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have considered how many urgent requests, urgent requests and requests for the setting up of a committee of inquiry have been made to the Causa Eurofighter in recent years. The result is the following: There have been 7 urgent questions, 3 urgent requests and 20 applications for the setting up of an investigation committee. This is therefore an issue which has been subject to parliamentary treatment over and over again, and which has repeatedly prevented the majority of the government from establishing a committee of inquiry. Twenty times is a remarkable number – and in addition the many urgent ones that have given it! I would like to quote something here because we are once again gathered and have to deal with this issue again today, namely from the “Economic Sheet” of 18th century. May this year. This is an editorial by Herbert Geyer, who has the title: ‘Eurofighter: A clear case of ‘self-debt’’. Herbert Geyer says that the government really owes itself to the fact that four years after the type decision, this issue is always the subject of public debates and parliamentary treatment. [[Abg. Head: This is not our fault!]] If one keeps the Eurofighter purchase contract secret for three years, if even a constitutional expert goes there and if there is even a decision about the fact that the commercial part could have been made public at any time, then one has already been entitled to ask the question why it took years until you were finally prepared at last – and that only one Member, admitted, the clubman of the SPÖ – to hand over this contract. Why didn't you hand it over to the other clubmen? Why not also the other Members of this House? Why has this Treaty not been passed on to Parliament for a long time so that it can be worked through here? – You have to answer these questions. After a vote, which is not quite as bad as you have imagined, you have suddenly handed it over to a Member of Parliament – I suppose, not all parts of this treaty. This journalist writes in the editorial, as said, that the government itself is actually guilty that this issue is being dealt with over and over again. As a result, he says: “In fact, however, the Eurofighter order is pretty much unclear, starting with the question of why an immature model was chosen, which was by far the most expensive, over the supposed 200-percent compensation due to counter-businesses, to the mystery of delivery and payment conditions.” I could continue reading this editorial – after all, it is in the “Economic Paper”, not in any Revolverblatt, but in the “Economic Sheet”, in which everyone would like to read and be informed, not only about the purchase of the Eurofighters, but also about any counter-businesses and about who might benefit from this business in the economy or not. That means it's clearly assigned here. The whole thing is not an invention of a restless opposition, but it is therefore permanently subject because the government itself bears the blame for the fact that this topic has always become the subject of treatment here in the House. So that I can vary, because I have already spoken about this several times... – This is for your quality of life, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Always the same!]] You're supposed to have some of it, you're supposed to find it exciting. As a former Minister of Defense, you will find this Causa, I think, still exciting; but you will see if it is. I've been looking at what this plane can do. You can get this information out of the Internet; I am not a mystery carrier and I will not be asked for it very much afterwards. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We know that you are not a mystery bearer!]] The Eurofighter has a logistics required for out-of-area operations. – My thesis is by the way: That's anything but a interception hunter. Minister of Finance Grasser himself spoke of a “war unit” at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is nothing new!]] It was very embarrassing for the government to have found such open words, but he found them because it was true. That means that the whole thing is far more, it is an aircraft for war operations, for peace-making measures outside the country. Short and good: This is anything other than what you are trying to explain to us and the Austrian population all the time, namely to protect neutrality in order to control the airspace. With such a device? - Please! If I may briefly quote here: a wide range of sensor systems for the detection, identification, tracking and control of air targets; a multi-target fire control system; a mixture of high-performance air-air pilots of short and medium range as well as on-board cannons; a threat-based and adaptable self-protection system to increase the effectiveness, enforcement, survival; the possibility of flexible, high loads of weapons and functionally adapted arms stations. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is that bad?]] - I have something for you, too. Eurofighter has also expanded the entire spectrum of short-range missiles by brand Sidewinder, ASRAAM, Iris-T and mid-range rockets. In planning, among other things – highly interesting! – The following: The METEOR rocket is expected to be able to fight enemy aircraft at a distance of about 100 kilometres and will be available from 2012. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a Filibuster speech?]] Is that really to come? Do you get a METEOR rocket if you really want to cross it? – No, just from the Internet via the Eurofighter – as it is. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] That's just a fact report. Let's take a look at this. The type decision is the decisive one. We need to find out why the Eurofighter type decision was taken. Why not, for example, the far smaller-sized flus or the F-16 when I really think of it? [[Abg. Murauer makes a hand movement.]] – Make You don't always use your hand like that, otherwise you'll get stuck! [[The speaker makes the movement of the hand of Abg. Murauer nach]] It is only about why this type of decision was taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – But not everything. Ask the President of the Court of Auditors, who said: We haven't checked everything. This is one of the reasons why it is so necessary that there is this Committee of Inquiry – the request for it should be dealt with afterwards to your delight. There's something else here: The Taurus rocket – these are interesting names for rockets – has a construction length of 5.1 meters, a considerable weight and the range is 350 kilometers. It's going to be pretty weird when you get up on this plane. Once again – to stay in your section –: It's a kind of photo plane that gets up and takes a short picture. I was told by an expert that this is only possible if the pilot has a camera and is photographing it out of the cockpit. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you Mr. Hartlauer?]] I do not know if that is true, but the Minister of Defence will certainly tell me if it is, and if so, what kind of camera he needs. Only to describe what the requirement profile is and why this strange type decision has finally come to be, I have now allowed myself to list all of this, because this describes precisely that it is actually an aircraft that should be able to do more than you are trying to explain to the Austrian population with this description of tasks. And that's what I think, of course, is not correct. Why Saying You don't: Yes, we have opted for the type of Eurofighter, because we would like to take part in an out-of-area deployment when it comes to creating peace somewhere in the world!? – That would have been honest. Everyone would have said: Great, the government would like to be on a quota with 10, 12, 16 aircraft. I don't know where to have to take part or perhaps be able to take part, because there must be a decision to do so, just as we have a legal order. But you're ready to do that, too. Now I'm going to the cost page. We have always criticized the costs. In this respect, at the beginning you were not man enough to say whatever the real costs are. At that time, you – the “Press” showed that, as far as I can remember – first used numbers that were then rejected by the “Press”. That was just the pure, naked plane – just that it still had a plane and an engine! However, they have precisely known that there is even more to it. You haven't answered the question yet, how this is with tranche 1 and tranche 2. If you get tranche 1 and not tranche 2, then upgrade tranche 1 to tranche 2: What are the additional costs? – All these are things that would be really interesting. [[Abg. Scheibner: Earrings out!]] Minister of Defence Scheibner Why this complicated way? [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank you!]] Why did you take on these sufferings? – It would have been easier if you had said: What does Austria need? – A redimensional profile, namely, redimensional in relation to what the Eurofighter is now. You could have represented this in front of the public. What bothers me is that you have given something here, which is not true, both from the task description and ultimately from the cost. And the cost of looking at it is remarkable. They're remarkable! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is the old speech of...!]] That's what I want to say, because €2.1 billion... – Yes, but that's what I'm saying to you, word “BAWAG”. [[Call the ÖVP:... BAWAG!]] Why the BAWAG had to interfinance this, I'm sluggish. Why did that have to be? This is the housebank of the Republic, in this case it was the P.S.K. Why did that have to be? My knowledge is associated with additional costs, or did this happen at a zero rate? I never believe that! So there has been an interim financing. You will know for yourself how high the extra costs are. These are, of course, taxpayers. It's connected with the fact that one wanted to say politically, only from 1st century onwards. January 2007? – That will have been the reason for this: from 1. ==References== Until then, it is interfinanced by the P.S.K., the house bank, then you pay back the rates, both for the Eurofighter and for the P.S.K., which the interim financing has made. What does such interim financing actually cost? Are those €20 million, €30 million? Please tell me! I'm not that firm in such things. I would like to know: What's that cost? Why did you choose this expensive way? All of this is a very expensive way. Even the responsible Major General Wolf has responded to the criticism of what actually costs an hour of flight. Remember? There has even been a public debate a few weeks ago, in which we found out what the cost comparison for a flight hour between the Eurofighter, the F-16, the flu and so on looks like. By flu: a fraction! €30 000 costs a flight of the Eurofighter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Do you find this exciting? One flight hour: 30 000 €! Why didn't you think about that in the type decision? Before choosing a particular type, you have to calculate how high the operating costs are! This question is obvious in all the confidence-building measures we are trying to build. They always say economic competence lies with the ÖVP. The ÖVP always claims to be a very competitive party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I do not want to question this now, but I would like to put it in a connection with the following question: If you, Mr Grillitsch, buy a tractor, think about how high the operating costs are. Or go to the warehouse and just say: A tractor, essentially, he has big wheels, makes tuck, tuck, tuck and drives!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I don't think so. I trust you. You go, let yourself be different... – Mr Grillitsch is sitting right here and has made an intermediate call. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Leave the farmers out of the game! That's incredible!]] But I can do the same with you. Suppose you buy a tractor, even you won't say: [[Rejoicing with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Mainly, he has big wheels and makes tuck, tuck, tuck! You will say: There is this and that tractor model, what do they cost in the maintenance? The term ‘maintenance’ is the term ‘maintenance’. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Fritz doesn't need a tractor, I need one!]] You'll also see that the tractor has four wheels, otherwise it's a stupid story, I'll tell you. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I'm looking at the furrowing on a three-wheel tractor. There you can go backwards and the small wheel pulls the furs, provided there are two large wheels. [[Abg. Hornek: He has no idea!]] - I have to translate this. [[Call: Unbelievable]] – Don’t say “unbelievable”! It is important to consider the question of maintenance and operating costs. [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's a shame! It's embarrassing!]] My criticism is that you obviously didn't think about it. If I do the high-level calculation, only from the flight hours – I am not talking about the fields of flight, the training of pilots, the training, the additional costs if one continues to upgrade – if I add all of this, I have over a longer period of time enormously higher cost of maintenance than that would have been the case with other types. Mr Scheibner, you seem to have experienced a phase – I have found a quote from you somewhere, for example: There have been several drafts for different projects, but only one decision. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A embarrassing attempt to get over time!]] I would be interested in this regard: Was there also a comparison of operating costs? Has there been also an assessment of maintenance costs? – This is not meaty, it is important. [[Abg. Scheibner: Incorrectly read!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Incorrectly read!]] - No, I don't. If you take all of this and say: I'm ready for such a huge purchase price, I'm ready that I'm finally taking into account these maintenance costs, these costs for an hour of flight, just under the title of "ventilator", "photoplane" and not under the title "that can do more" – that can also be done out-of-area operations – then I ask myself: Why? Why all this? The urgent question we are asking today already contains important questions as to how this decision-making process has been in the final effect. Who was all involved in this decision-making process? Who said himself and why? These are things that are important! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Have you not read the Court of Auditors report? Did you sleep?]] Dear colleague Fekter! This is Parliament's task here. Look, there's the instrument of urgent inquiry. You do not have to listen to me, you can walk outside in the meantime, but it is Parliament's task to deal with and discuss this here. It's not the first time we've been talking about the interceptors here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Eben Drum!]] Mr. Lichal was here even today. I saw him at the gallery today when he won. He had a lot to report earlier, as before, when the interception hunters were discussed in his own Styrian ÖVP. There was a mistrust against him back then. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What's new about what you say?]] Don't pretend your story would be a linear, almost from birth only for super-absorbers, and would mark the ÖVP delegates! It's not like that! There have always been controversial discussions. It is also entitled to conduct very careful, very precise, very precise, these discussions in the use of taxpayers' money. You know what I'm against? – It's trying to tablish the whole thing. I have heard something very carefully, I would like to say this here and now: I believe that in the ‘press hour’, the former President of the National Council, whom I very much appreciate, began to philosophy a little about how this really is with investigation committees. Mr Fekter did so with her statement when she said that it was a political tribunal. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Oh, yes!]] – No, not if you make up and act responsibly, and only that can be the goal. I have the following concern: Just because you do not agree with the subject, you suddenly want to have a principle debate on whether we need research committees at all. That's not all right! That is a democratic question of principle. We Socialists and Socialists do not want to deal with democratic questions of principle, which also concern Parliament. That is why we want to extend this right to the minority here in the house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition – because I am already in a state of unrest behind me – the argument of counter-businesses comes. On these counter-actions there are, by the way, very different statements by industrial and economic operators that doubt all of this – from the order of scale, from the effectiveness, whether these are really counter-businesses. [[Abg. Hornek: Ask the Androsch!]] You'll know the names yourself. They read the same way I read the economic pages of the newspapers or the “Economic Sheet”. [[Abg. Friend: FACC Ried!]] There are critical comments. We should take note of this, because we do not want propaganda and agitation here, but we want materiality and information. This is our goal that we want to achieve in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Since when?]] We are also trying to do this in this context – also in this urgent question, which, as I believe, is very important, since this is the beginning and the first step towards clarification: Under what conditions was the type decision made at all? In the end, how does the procurement process go on and ahead? What other contracts are there? And so on. All of these are things that are to be clarified, today through the questions of this urgent question and soon, I hope, in a committee of inquiry, to demystify this issue – in our all interest – and ultimately to come to a conclusion. The population – the majority of the population – wants this to be examined, because it is their money that was used there. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore believe that it is necessary to deal responsibly with it. We are ready to do so and invite all of you to participate in this information work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5680	In response to the question, the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5701	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Before answering your questions, Mr Cap, I would first like to make a general statement on the procurement of these airspace surveillance aircraft. For the first time, the need for airspace monitoring was the following: Those who say yes to neutrality say yes to the sovereignty of our Republic of Austria, says Yes to the preservation of air sovereignty, and this is ultimately only with airspace surveillance aircraft. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Anyone who says yes to the application of Winter Olympics, as was the case with Salzburg, also says Yes to airspace surveillance, because I had to sign for the application that airspace surveillance and security at the Winter Olympics is guaranteed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen: Those who say yes to security in the Republic of Austria also say yes to security on the ground and in the air. A neutral state can never afford to have others carry out this airspace surveillance for him. You might have to join NATO. – But we don’t want to do that, and that would cost a lot of money. [[Abg. The cap already!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The cap already wants to go to NATO!]] So there is no alternative. Austrian pilots with Austrian aircraft must monitor our Austrian airspace. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] If I look at all these discussions, I would like to say the following: It is absolutely not the hobby of the Minister of Defense, the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Government and not the Austrian Federal Army to monitor the airspace, but that is our obligation! – That really has to be said in all clarity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Prominent constitutional and international legalists have delivered an opinion on this. I mention university professor Dr. Heinz Mayer, who was born on 9 May. August 2002 in an APA interview: ‘A neutral state must be able to monitor its airspace.’ Dr. Mayer also says: “A neutral must meet his obligations according to his possibilities and best forces.” And on top of that: “A wealthy neutral state must sacrifice part of its prosperity for effective national defence.” – says Heinz Mayer. Dr. Manfred Rotter, professor of international law, has – also on 9. August 2002 – said: ‘We need flying equipment.’ And the former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Ludwig Adamovich, also said: ‘The formulation that neutrality is to be defended by ‘all means offered’ includes effective airspace monitoring.’ And then we're going to go on: “Those who justify the purchase with the Neutrality Act do not do so unjustly.” I therefore refer here not to the Federal Government, but to important personalities in the area of constitutional law and international rights. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, all German Chancellors have seen this, because at the time of the procurement, I think Federal Chancellor Sinowatz and Finance Minister Vranitzky was responsible. They were the ones who eventually carried out this Dragonship. It was the decision or information of the German Chancellor climate that a post-purchasing of the Dragons must take place during the next legislative period. – These were all German chancellors of the SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen! You have to ask this question – I really mean it! – discuss seriously, but without any doubt, the urgent need for airspace surveillance in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I would now like to take a brief look at the time schedule. As already mentioned, the decision-making process under climate has already been brought about in the next legislative period to regulate the successor succession. In October 2001, the supply collection was carried out in the process that proved successful in the Austrian Federal Army: a free-standing award in the competition. One could also freely award without competition: This allows both EU law and Austrian law. However, one has not chosen this path, but that of a free-standing award procedure in competition. ==References== In June, the result of the 33-member evaluation committee was there. There were experts at the plant who finally recommended that Eurofighter be best bidder and that Eurofighter be ordered. ==References====External links== These recommendations were followed by the Committee of Experts on July 2, and were finally ordered by Eurofighter. ==References== In July, negotiations between BMLV and Eurofighter GmbH were started. In August 2002, there was the flood disaster and the reduction to 18 with option to another 6 Eurofighters. In September 2002, there was a draft contract. Then the Federal Government was dissolved. The new Federal Government has already listened to me, and I have assured myself that there will not be a beekeeper crash if a reduction from 24 to 18 Eurofighter is carried out. I have invited two constitutional experts to assure a hundred percent that there is no bidder crash, and they have confirmed it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This statement is wrong!]] – Well, you can always make arguments there. You can bring 100 arguments if you don't want to hear that, but it's true that these two constitutional judges have expressed in an opinion black and white that there has been no beekeeper collapse. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But not to this...!]] ==References== In July 2003, the Council of Ministers had the decision-making and the authorisation of the Minister of Defence to carry out the signing of the contract. ==References== This Treaty became legal on August 23, 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no procurement process that has been so thoroughly discussed and examined. In the last and previous legislative period, there were 14 urgent questions, 19 applications for the establishment of an investigation committee, 31 written requests for Eurofighter procurement and counter-businesses in the National Council and another five urgent questions in the Federal Council. – Nothing came out of it. They also made seven fines. - All charges have been filed. In addition, there have been three audits of the Court of Auditors. The first examination concerned the preparation of the successor procurement. Herbert Scheibner himself suggested that this review be carried out. The second test concerned the type decision. The third report dealt with contract of sale, financing and countermeasures. Please note: The Court of Auditors has confirmed that Eurofighter was the best bidder. The Court of Auditors noted in its report that there was no manipulation and no gift acceptance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because he can't test that! That is not the competence of the Court of Auditors!]] We have explained, discussed and discussed this in detail in eight Committees of the Court of Auditors: There is no procurement process that has been debated and reviewed as sufficiently as this Eurofighter acquisition. Dear ladies and gentlemen, now to the product Eurofighter. The European product Eurofighter is one of the best in the world. Mr Cap! Do you think Saab flu is not armed? Do you think you can't carry out efficient airspace surveillance or war operations with Saab Grips? – Of course, otherwise Saab flu would have zero chance in the competition! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's what he's been looking at on the Internet!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There he did not find the homepage!]] This is absurd, which is discussed and claimed over and over again. It's just not right! General Jumper of the Air Forces of America, who has flown this jet, has – as I have mentioned before – said the following to the Eurofighter: He has flown many jets of the world, and no one was better than this. This is an award for a European product. Let us be proud that in Europe we are able to be very strong in competition with America! It is about jobs and high technology. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Cap, to Tranche I and Tranche II: I kept saying that it doesn't cost a cent. Nevertheless, the opposite is always claimed here. We can explain on the government bank and prove what we want, it is repeated again and again what you want to hear. – The upgrade to tranche II costs no brighter! The current order list of Eurofighter GmbH is such that 638 aircraft are delivered: to the operators nations Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom 620 and to us 18. Saudi Arabia has also ordered 72. Austria was the first export customer, and that was actually the reason why Eurofighter GmbH offered us so cheaply. It was also the reason why there was a very minimal difference between the competitive product and the Eurofighters, which affected the financial offer. So who thinks it would have been much cheaper if you had bought the competitive product, it would have been wrong. That was a very narrow difference. The competitive product was a bit cheaper compared to Eurofighter GmbH's offer. They wanted to go into export and offered a favourable offer. In addition, the performance of the Eurofighter is so much better that the Court of Auditors has also rightly confirmed that Eurofighter was the best bidder. Again on the European product: There is no airspace surveillance aircraft other than the Eurofighter, which is a European product. All other airspace surveillance aircraft are not purely European products. The competitive product is also produced to over 50 percent in America. With all due respect, I believe that we should be involved in a purely European project. It is important that this dependence on other continents is not so that we not only discuss this European armaments community but also live in the end. In addition, I am glad that we can maintain good cooperation. Germany and Italy have Eurofighters. We train the technicians and the pilots in Germany. – This is good cooperation and good cooperation. It should also be noted that: That was excellently negotiated! We receive 240 percent of the net price from counter-businesses. - That's €4 billion. Nearly € 1 billion has already been realized, and business over € 2.7 billion has already been signed, but entrepreneurs are afraid of a contract resolution and of being unable to do this business in the end. This Eurofighter is, in addition to the military necessity, also the entry into high technology in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the Treaty: It's non- and nailproof. He was tested. I'm not worried at all. As far as the contract exit clause is concerned, which is discussed here again and again: Please read the Court of Auditors report! It has long said what is necessary, which criteria must be met and what happens if the delivery conditions are not met or if we want to withdraw unilaterally from the contract. – That’s nothing new, that’s all in the Court’s report! But it is clear: We have not made this treaty to get out of it unilaterally. What does an exit from this Treaty mean? – No airspace surveillance in Austria! I'm asking: Who takes responsibility for this? We all hope nothing happens. But I don't want to be there when we open the airspace like a barn gate, when I know that about 100 airspace injuries are done in the year. I don't want to be there! – That is clearly said: There is no alternative to airspace surveillance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Secondly, We could forget all the big events. What do you think happens when it becomes known that airspace surveillance is no longer being carried out in Austria? Then we are no longer partners – whether at the economic interests and meetings, whether in the political field or at sports events. A contract exit would mean: no counter-actions – I have already mentioned – the loss of jobs, which the entrepreneurs are currently very concerned about, but also the loss of jobs in the Austrian federal army and in tentway. [[Abg. Grill: The SPÖ is not interested!]] This is a region that needs jobs very urgently. Then what do we want? If we do not install Eurofighters in tentways, there will also be no jobs in this area. The Mayor of Tentweg – a SPÖ mayor! – is also very concerned. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What really surprises me is that this procurement has been criticized and criminalized for years, but it was all sound and smoke so far! You know what I'm surprised about when discussions about the exit of the contract are being held: What's your alternative? Where are your concepts? Put the concepts on the table so you can talk about these things! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You don't have one!]] There are no concepts! It's just about populism and showing that everything is expensive and that we don't want to afford it. Then you can also connect the social benefits. I do not think that this is the way to make security policy! This is not about party politics! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I am really concerned with a proper, good security policy in the interests of the security of the Republic of Austria and the Austrian population. Now to the answer to the question: Question 1: The agreement and formulation of the Eurofighter purchase contract, as usual for federal procurement, was made up of a team of the competent experts of the Federal Ministry of State Defense and the Federal Ministry of Finance. I am seeking to understand that, as I have already done in the Court of Auditors' inquiries, a list of the relevant persons cannot be listed for data protection reasons. On question 2: As already stated in my introduction: As stated in the Court of Auditors’ report of April 2005 and presented in full by the President of the Court of Auditors in the Court of Auditors, it is agreed with Eurofighter GmbH that the Federal Ministry of State Defense may, in principle, withdraw from the contract at any time in writing, provided that the company Eurofighter pays all the services provided up to that date and that the costs incurred by the company are replaced by the resignation. Without obligation to replace costs, the Federal Ministry of State Defense can mainly resign in case of poorer performance or non-fulfilment by Eurofighter GmbH. I refer to the statements in the Court of Auditors' report. Question 3: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The question of the amount of the cost of a contract exit – I have already mentioned this – is therefore that the costs that have already been incurred must be paid. Question 4: With the purchase of the Eurofighters, the Republic of Austria acquires a number of software licenses. The acquisition of a software license is entitled to use the software but does not mean the acquisition of intellectual property. With regard to the nominal list of persons, I refer to my comments on question 1. It is very important to note that similar agreements apply, for example, to the software in the context of the procurement of the Black Hawk S70. This is so common in military procurement that the software is not available. This is because the seller always reserves the right to decide whether, where and to whom, his product will be sold by means of the so-called end-user certificate. Thus, the producer can influence the region in which its product is used and thus exclude its own risk. Question 5: The BMLV always has the opportunity to recover the money on the proper legal basis, if necessary. It is appropriate that a rebuttal has been agreed. Finally, a discount of € 110 million was reached by the renunciation and thus the Austrian taxpayers were relieved by applying the principles of effectiveness, economy and economy. With regard to the nominal list of persons, I refer to my comments on question 1. On question 6: The Federal Ministry of State Defense is obliged, in view of the current legal situation, in particular the Austrian neutrality and the commitment to comprehensive state defence, to ensure a functioning passive and active airspace surveillance. This includes the operation of airspace surveillance aircraft. The question of an exit has never been raised for the Federal Ministry of Defence. The reasons for withdrawal were only included in the contract in accordance with commercial care. Of course, media coverage has been closely monitored, examined for relevance to the performance of the contract. These audits have in no case any doubts as to the proper performance of the contract by Eurofighter GmbH. Otherwise, of course, we would have been active. Question 7: In the course of the negotiations of the contract, passages on withdrawal rights were included in the purchase agreement with Eurofighter GmbH for reasons of commercial care. An exit was not an intention of the procurement process. Eurofighter GmbH has written in a letter dated 10 January. October addressed to me and reaffirmed once again that the project is very advanced and is on the agenda thanks to the constructive cooperation of the contracting partners in the implementation of the project. A unilateral removal of the Treaty would be associated with significant costs for the Republic of Austria at the present time, three years after the conclusion of the Treaty. It therefore explains that, as a general contractor, it has already commissioned all the services necessary for the performance of the contract and that these services have already been provided to a greater extent and assumes that a detailed analysis would take place for several months. According to the story, it should be around 1 billion €. Question 8: I refer to my statements on question 1 to the namental list of persons. On the question 9: ==References== In July 2003, the Federal Ministers were informed in the Council of Ministers of the key points of the outcome of the treaty. A corresponding Council of Ministers decision was also taken Hiezu, which was also the subject of several debates in the Court of Auditors Committee and the National Defence Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5993	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Gaál has spoken. I'll set his clock to seven minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6020	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, if you say yes to neutrality, yes to airspace surveillance, then we are with you, we have something common on which we can build. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not all!]] But I can say clearly that the purchase of these fighter planes with airspace surveillance, ladies and gentlemen, really has nothing to do with it! [[Abg. Murauer: But?]] These fighter jets, Mr Murauer, are designed for the air battle, for the air war, we do not need them for airspace surveillance in Austria. That is why our strict No to that! We don't need these Eurofighters for airspace surveillance. [[Abg. Murauer: Which plane then?]] It is too expensive, there are other more effective and cost-effective ways to provide airspace surveillance in Austria. We don't need these luxury fighter jets, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They were never ready by the Federal Government – not once! – to discuss airspace surveillance with us. [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] We are building a security and peace union in Europe, in the EU. We do not yet know how security policy continues in this Europe, and you have gone over without If and But and have decided on this Eurofighter deal without seriously and responsibly discussing with us here, ladies and gentlemen. This unfortunate story, Minister of State, started in March/April 2002, as a major tendering criteria during the ongoing procedure – unusual. So-called must-requirements have been changed into so-called "salt-requirements" so that their non-fulfilment does not lead to a compelling excretion of the provider from the procedure. Even the duty notes, ladies and gentlemen, were subsequently amended: to the benefit of EADS and to the detriment of the Republic of Austria and to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers who have a right to learn what happens to their money, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Call criteria were not met. Contracting directives have not been complied with. Federal Minister Platter, you said in May 2003, for which 18 Eurofighters are needed including logistics, armament and training around €2 billion. According to the Court of Auditors' report, this is not the case. More than €100 million in additional investment will be added: for pilot training, for the airfield and construction infrastructure, for the flight system and for the intermediate solution already mentioned today with the F-5, which costs €75 million, in old currency 1 billion schilling, because you have renounced this interim solution in the contract, which is unusual. All this, these additional costs are nowhere in the budget. And in addition to that, the non-estimable costs for operation and maintenance. The costs – Mr. Federal Minister – you know that very well – explode. It's not manageable, it's not financeable! This has even been said by Minister of Finance Grasser himself and therefore pleads for used F-16 if anything needs to be done at all. We have an extremely narrow national defence budget, we are moving towards 0.7/0.6 percent of GDP. We currently have the lowest budget since the Austrian federal army existed. If the figures are half right – I would be glad if you were able to correct me – which are currently to be heard by the Ministry of Finance, and these are very credible, we will be commuting at 1.7 billion. This narrow national defence budget does not allow us to implement the jointly agreed federal military reform with a Eurofighter purchase to be financed from the budget. In this way, a sensible and necessary reform is not possible, as we have decided jointly by the Federal Commission for Reform, Mr Federal Minister. This sintering procurement is negligent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] To date, Mr Federal Minister, you have not presented us with a coherent financing concept. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is the speech from 2003!]] So far, you haven't explained where you're going to get the money. The army budget is totally overindebted, Minister of State! Therefore, this Eurofighter acquisition is a disaster for the Austrian federal army. We demand transparency, perceptibility in the Austrian Federal Government's procurement policy. We call for the immediate exit from the Eurofighter Treaty, and I therefore have the opportunity to submit the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6170	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Gaál, Pilz, Strache, Herbs, Kogler, Barbara Rosenkränz-responsible Eurofighter exit is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Fassleven spoke next. His welcome time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6197	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For me, as for most of you probably, it was a special day today, although it was already for the seventh or eighth time that I was praised. When I think so back to the first time in January 1987 and to the following times, I have to say, there has always been a certain course on that day, of which I have found that he has also made sense. There have been no special items on the agenda, but there has been the President's statement, the election of the new Presidents and the main committees. It's not like that today. Today it is already 4 p.m., and we have not even elected the Third President or the Third President, because today it is slightly different: For the first time in history, as far as I have experienced this, there is a urgent question and there is even a request for the setting up of an investigation committee. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I have always experienced this so far that this first day, a few weeks after the election campaign, has always served to bring the joint together again, not only in the election of the Presidents, but also by making contact with colleagues from the other side and thus creating the necessary confidence to go into constructive, fruitful cooperation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is Parliament!]] Today I experience the opposite: It is precisely from one side, where there is already a government education mission, where very concrete discussions have already begun, where one is in the middle of the talks, that not another attempt is being made to promote and further build this trust, but, quite the contrary, a committee of inquiry is being set up. And everyone who knows the parliamentary holding knows what a committee of inquiry means: There is no question that something should be considered quite normally here. I have already experienced the first Dragon Subcommittee; I think Mr Pilz is the only one who was there at the time. And already this subcommittee has brought to light a climate that was anything but constructive, which was anything but done to simply explain certain things, but that has been a political tribunal. All the more so, it is accepted by a committee of inquiry which not only bears that name but also has all the powers to do so. I therefore ask myself, Mr Cap: What do you want? You really? I can't defend the impression that you're not really striving for a big coalition that it's not about building confidence here, but that you're actually putting on everything to undermine the trust that's been created effortlessly in the last few days. [[Abg. Großruck: to provoke new elections!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Think about what this can mean for the stability of our Republic! Because in fact, there is nothing new in the matter itself. Everything that was presented here has been chewed here several times. Of course, there are not only the experts' statements, and I would like to say that I found it impressive how clear and clear the Minister of Defense not only presented the entire line of reasoning here, but also described the events and their course – and so it was. As one who has been in front of this resort for almost a decade, I can only tell you: I would never have come to a decision other than him, because the course of this procurement is clearly regulated and the Minister does not intervene here at all. There are independent Commissions occupied by experts who work together in clause and work out a little according to objective criteria. It's about something completely different. – I understand that you may not like the interception hunters so much, but you should have the confession to defend the country. Some constitutional lawyers have already been quoted today. I would also like to remind you of some important political personalities, such as the following: “You can’t confess on the one hand to the state defense, celebrate the National Day, but you can put aside the commitment we have from it. It also belongs to the credibility of a state that it fulfils its obligations. ... Of course, this must not be forgotten, from the state treaty, from neutrality and through the defence doctrine, very clear commitments." This was said by the Federal Chancellor, but not by Chancellor Schüssel, but already by Federal Chancellor Sinowatz. It was also he who did not want any surveillance aircraft, but said quite clearly: They're supposed to buy interceptors. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] Just like now, the Eurofighter – a interceptor. There was nothing else then, and nothing else is going on today, but the political assessment is obviously another one. I can tell you that the SPÖ decided this by a very large majority – there were only four votes against in the SPÖ party board at that time. I can also tell you that at that time very large personalities such as the then SPÖ Party and today's Federal President Heinz Fischer turned to the public and said clearly: Take-off hunters, yes, rockets no. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] I miss this confession with you, and I also miss the commitment to the jobs that have been created. Thousands of top-quality jobs depend on it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which one?]] I'd like to tell you something else. There have already been similar discussions in the past. I quote a few words that a former SPÖ Secretary-General said to the Draken Treaty in 1987: “There are only three ways of withdrawing from a contract without a resolution clause, as is the Draken purchase agreement, said yesterday SP Central Secretary Dr. Heinrich Keller clearly: 1. if the delivered goods have a common defect; 2. if expressly secured properties are missing and 3. if the price is overpaid by more than half.” These are statements by SPÖ peak functionaries – to read in the “socialist correspondence” and in the media of Austria. Today's Eurofighter Treaty is much better than the Draken Treaty. [[Abg. Broukal: Do you even know the contract?]] Your people, your top men have resisted the attacks that happened back then. And you question this in a very important and sensitive phase for Austrian federal policy. [[Abg. Broukal: Do you know the contract?]] – Yes, I know him so far that I can judge it. [[Abg. You know him?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But this is interesting!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If it does not matter to you that foreign policy stability by Your approach is called into question by many, if it does not matter to you that the security of Austria is at stake that jobs are at stake, at least you should not mind that at the same time trust within the party landscape is significantly shaken. It is impossible to initiate a political criminal procedure in which the majority decides where at the top is not a judge, but where the majority decides how to proceed. This is essentially a committee of inquiry! [[Abg. Brosz: We're supposed to get rid of that, aren't we?]] He is a political tribunal and will remain it – and this in a phase of coalition talks. Please understand if even more than moderate, moderate persons who are extremely interested in working with SPÖ – as an example, I only call the Upper Austrian head of state Pühringer – who feel as provocation! This can only be felt as provocation if you try to criminalise each other and make the other bad, not as a partner, but as an opponent and as an enemy. Take a distance from it as long as there is still time – you still have the opportunity – otherwise you do damage to the Republic and its stability!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6369	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6391	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has almost tragically confirmed the way in which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats understands the process when, in my view, a possible majority of parliamentarians, of freely elected Members, will, in this case, as I believe, be required to do so, to comply with a democratic duty. This is in the ranks of the ÖVP Majesty policy; no other way can this be explained here. Next, what? You are always confused here, but this is a very significant question: What is Parliament's case? And what is to be done in any government negotiations? – That All the years before, you have always deliberately confused this, you have shown impressively. It will also be a question of why we are actually at the point today that we need this committee of inquiry: that is precisely because you, with your majority in here, following the party headquarters and the government orders, have prevented almost every step of the investigation! This is the story of why it has now come to pass: It's a question of reconnaissance and not billing. I can really calm you down. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Very soothing!]] Look, I'll tell you a little story of the possibly biggest shift in the history of this republic, so that the new Members can remember this a little bit. They should not make the mistake of their predecessors, provided they are sitting in the ranks of BZÖ or ÖVP and are in conflict of conscience here, because it is already thrown off the wardrobe. We're going to go into a single case. But it is a matter of course that Parliament is here to check government acts to see if the tax money has been handled correctly. Let me ask you this other question outside. Neither the constitution nor neutrality dictates the purchase of certain types of aircraft, and even not the Eurofighter in this form, any tranche or anything else. Show me this Constitutional or Neutrality provision, in which a compelling link to the Eurofighter is made! I wish you luck. So it is precisely about questioning the decision-making sequences that have taken place here in particular with the Committee of Inquiry. There are plenty of reasons and points of reference to make yourself overcrowded and to look for yourself, even if you keep stressing: That's nothing new. For individuals, maybe, may be! That may be the case, but that is precisely why we need this committee of inquiry: because, despite the massive accusations and the urgent suspicions, almost every reconnaissance was suppressed here in the house! That is why we need this committee. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Where's the story you talked about? Where's the story?]] We come from the invitation to tender to this state, which we have to complain here today, that the ministers of this Federal Government have signed a de facto conflict agreement for the Republic. He's just got a history, and the pre-history starts with the call. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is not inside, but he would not be in a more developed democratic country at all, because it was already possible to prove that parts of the counter-business contract or the tender were manipulated for this, because entire paragraphs, whole text blocks were incorporated into the tender by a bidder company that was entirely in the race! The story goes like this when Insisting on it: That was the old Sweden at the time. Nearly after the turn, after the year 2000, it was such that in the German army one assumed: We are doing it as before, we are walking to the Sweden, and the counter-businesses are always a great thing, so to speak, opium for the taxed people in this matter. It was approved in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs that this process was possible. All of this has not scratched the Minister; he has not even explained this to this day. We also need the Committee of Inquiry to do this. If we still need a witness to these anachronistic counter-businesses – because they have already been claimed here again – then it is Aloysius Rauen, head manager of the EADS Group, who himself said: There is nowhere to be lied as much as tombs and counter-businesses. [[Abg. Murauer: Who?]] He's right, of course, because the whole thing is completely humbug. Would that be the right thing to say here, Minister of State: Then why didn't your predecessor order twice as many interceptors? – Because then we would have twice as many counter-businesses, and it would all be twice as good. That's total nonsense! The whole campaign is now being excavated again to further digress the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the word “sudden” – “lying” we do not want to use today, we have already been encouraged to understand the day of constitution as a common Christmas celebration – I tell you that there is no greater dizziness than the announcement of the still running Federal Chancellor before the 2002 election: “The interception hunters are financed by an economic platform.” Where is she, please? Come on! – So there is also a need for information here. Within the tender, you have changed the terms of the tender during the deadline – you no longer, but your successor and your predecessor, as he sits. Shouldn't that be intelligible? Must-conditions have been amended – a classical sin in the event of forgiveness! Switching within the type decision You always have these Court of Auditors reports, all of which I have here. I invite you to show me where a whitewashing took place here. The opposite is right! Of course it says: “appropriate”; President Fiedler was an old diplomat. But he said: “under the set standards of the ministry, ” and the ministry has shifted the standards from there to there, by then and by then. What was right at first was wrong afterwards. You will also have to explain to the Committee why there has been a change in this type decision overnight, literally overnight! They will have to explain why it was the top military who spoke out in file notes. You will have to explain – most certainly still here today – why you, with your majority in the Court of Auditors Committee, have prevented these officials, who have, by the way, been retired immediately after these proceedings, from saying in the House! We wanted to invite them, even members of your group, to agree. But then the Party Secretariat struck, and I saw, as chairman of the Committee itself, how your Members were influenced! Then you have put pressure on me, as Chairman of the Court of Auditors, that I do not continue to follow this matter here. I tell you, that was really a dark hour in this Parliament! And then you will be surprised if today, if there are parliamentary, democratic majority groups, we ask this committee to clarify these things at last! [[Congratulation with the Greens and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Platter, I have to disagree with you on one point, concerning the two opinions you have said that there has not been a beekeeper crash – a stupid story! Speaking of history, we have it too. The two experts, Aicher like Holoubek, just don't say that this process as such was dirty! They only postulate general axioms, among which can at all events be done and a beekeeper fall is to be ruled out. But if you read it exactly, you would have had to insist that in this procurement process there were very likely elements that could have led exactly to this bidder crash, especially that with the Eurofighter an intermediate solution was necessary and the whole effort was lost. We have calculated this according to your criteria of your evaluation commission, your mathematical logic, and, of course, a beekeeper has come out. A classical sin of forgiveness, in need of classical education! [[Federal Minister Platter: The Court of Auditors...!]] The Court of Auditors has not included the interim solution. But that's going to be too complicated here now. We need the Committee to do this. Finally, I can only tell you the following: [[towards ÖVP]] Please vote! You don't do anything good if you insist on your position! It would also be different to parliamentarianism if we agreed now, at the end of the day. I should therefore like to highlight the debate that we are going to hold afterwards. My appeal therefore goes in this direction: We will need the Committee of Inquiry, because you will not otherwise disclose the Treaty. Actually, we have to explore these processes that I have mentioned, but if you think this is a secret command, you must not be surprised either. Therefore: Get in the investigation committee and get out of the treaty!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6500	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. You take the whole 10 minutes; I set the clock to these 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6522	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say to us liberals that we are confessing to defend the country. We confess to the state defense both on the ground and in the air, and of course it needs airspace surveillance, but also airspace protection. Of course, this is something to which we clearly and clearly confess ourselves. It is not necessary – as the Minister of Defence has said today – that only this one product is required. There are other possibilities. There are also other ways of ensuring airspace, and it is clear how this product has been decided. As has been said, we want to explain that, too, we want to evaluate it. If Mr Fassleven turns to the speaker's desk and says that a committee of inquiry is a "trial" – please, where do we live? Where do we live that democracy, control and Enlightenment are being vilified by the government as a “Tribunal ”? - It can't be! What kind of understanding of democracy is that? Faith You really, you have leased the right and alone on your side, and only you decide on the welfare and woe of the Republic? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly this prepotence and highness, the one on the 1st. On October 1st, a rejection was received. That's exactly what it's all about: We want to know these things clearly. We have experienced it ourselves, and we are glad that those who sold and betrayed the Freedom Party back then are somewhere else today. You all made advertising for the SAAB flu back then, until a day before the decision. They all made advertising for the SAAB flu – then, at the decisive session, suddenly as from bright sky, to fall around and choose a different product! Why did that happen? What happened? Has there been an inspiration at night with the then Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibner? – His close friend Detlev Neudeck said: I am retiring as a representative, I am retiring as a member of the National Council because I cannot live by this decision! – Interesting things were the case at the time, and they are clear. There are interesting things to be explained, and this is also expected of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also with us the concern for the national defence, the concern for the national defence, because we have already heard that the financing burden for our federal army is being continually reduced and that, with this procurement, with the Eurofighter, as we know today, security on the ground is certainly at risk: that barracks are sold, that savings measures are taking place, that the federal army reform cannot be implemented. All this has to be illuminated, and that is what we want to highlight. We also want to highlight why the Greeks have received the interception hunter more cheaply than we have. We want to highlight why, for example, the Germans did some cancellations – because the product is technically not mature. Why did the German Federal Government partially cancel again? – That certainly has a serious reason to take, it will not have been made of jux and brilliance! Of course, we also want to point out that neutrality has the highest priority for us. I know that there are other parties in the House who, with the approval of the European Union Constitution, are always happy to pack neutrality as a value, as an important value, but, of course, are actually doing something else. On the other hand, there should also be combat missions by members of the European Union, including Austrian soldiers. It says that you might have thought: If you are concerned about and buy such a fighter jet called Eurofighter, then you may be able to send this fighter jet to combat operations somewhere outside of Austria, outside the European Union. These are the thoughts that played a role here, of course. Of course, I would be very interested in the fact that once you were ready to really put the list of counter-businesses on the table. Until now, counter-reactions are always spoken of, but there is no list, there is nothing comprehensible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Where are the many jobs you're talking about? – They are not present! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Can you see in Upper Austria!]] They are not available, and we should all really look at them closely. I think it is also very interesting that you, Mr Fassleven, said today that you know the Treaty. How's that? Have you received the agreement from Mr Bundeskanzler, the Minister of Defence for Assessment? This is also a point: We Austrians have to pay diligently. You order a product that costs € 2 billion, but the contract cannot see the Austrian population! As she is not allowed to understand, she must not check whether that is something that corresponds to her interest or not. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of FPÖ) Klatscht stop once!]] No, she has to pay; The review and submission of contracts is not desirable. – That is exactly what we want to ensure with the Committee of Inquiry: There's something to do. Nor do we want it to come to a Euro-Armee or NATO entry form; this is far from us. We want to continue to know neutrality, which is just an important concern for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: There you clap a little and say...!]] - What do you say? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Has already stopped!]] Well, there's a lot to light up, of course, to the point that there will also be to light whether there's an exit possibility. Yes, if there is an exit option that is cost-effective, with the help of which damage is turned away from the Austrian population, through which perhaps the Austrian taxpayer is left with amounts that we can afford social projects – yes, then every reasonable person must support it! This is a logical process, and that is why we want to know about it. If there are cost-effective exit options and if there is no money left for the Austrian taxpayer, please, we will ensure that there is an inflation-friendly adjustment for our pensioners! Let us make sure that there are maybe apprenticeship initiatives that will be ensured. Let us make sure that with this amount, which we may then be able to afford and which we can ensure, because we are saving ourselves something, treating other social projects preferably and still ensuring the safety of the air, so that there is still safety in our airspace, because there are also other products that are cheaper. That's exactly what it's all about: We need a product that only in this small area Austria has to take care of air safety! [[Abg. Scheibner: For example, which one?]] We don't need a Eurofighter who's at the border in 2 or 5 seconds and then could fly to another country immediately at the speed he's making. We don’t need “Ferrari in the air! ” [[Abg. Scheibner: But?]] We don't need “ferrari in the air”; it's enough for Mercedes and BMW to do the same. What for a “Ferrari in the Air ”? – Yes, because maybe a few were interested in taking part in the commission. I think that might be a background. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: ( towards Greens) This is a real professional! Oillinger, a real professional as a partner!]] Well, I think there's a little screaming because of course the nervousness is there. I understand when things have been dealt with publicly even in recent years, with people receiving contracts from a Mr Frank Stronach and the amount of money that is somehow not comprehensible. I understand that there is nervousness, that of course one does not want such a review and does not want it. But that's exactly what it's all about, and if you don't have anything to hide, I couldn't understand the excitement. I don't understand the excitement unless you have anything to hide, unless you have something hidden or some political bodies in the basement. But then I understand that you have to be excited, then I understand. That is why we will take these initiatives – also with the Greens and also with the Social Democrats! – take it because we don’t have as shy as you do! Because we're just saying: It is a matter of applying something in terms of content to Austrian interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There will be no one here and say: The Greens and the Freemans have now found themselves ideological! What kind of nonsense is that? Of course, this is nonsense, but there are also points where I can give the green right when they comment on environmental problems. We can also find many similarities in the environment. Yes, these are policy issues which must be assessed and which cannot be said from the outset: Well, devils, the Greens are so angry, I'm never going to make a political request with them. What the hell? The same applies to social democracy – and also to you, to the Austrian People's Party. I'd never say, I'm not talking to them! You do. If you don't talk, you can't talk about issues, either; you can't discuss matters either. If, like you, you are not willing to talk to a political group in this House, you must not be surprised if you cannot find common ground. That's a logical process. There you may need to think and go into what You may have done wrong in the case of your living prepotence. We will carry these initiatives with full consciousness, because we are glad that light will finally come into the dark on these issues. We will, of course, remain true to our election promises on these questions, because I have always said in the election discussions and also in the five rounds that I demand clarification and that I also take the exit from the Treaty if there is a cost-effective opportunity. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I remain faithful to my election promise, and we liberals too do.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6710	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6731	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Deputies! If a certain nervousness has appeared, that is true, at least what my person is doing. However, this has not occurred because in this award procedure something has been wrong, but because, as one who has been responsible for many, many years in the Freedom Party or co-responsible for security policy, it is a bit difficult for me to listen to how this party with its party keeper fully approved of the principles that this camp and this party had for many decades, ladies and gentlemen. This is really the alarming one. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Numerous calls to the FPÖ.]] We are always in favour of this: without If and But for the security of the country and for the defence of the home country. [[Abg. That's right! And not for your own advantage!]] And if you come now with neutrality – there is Mr Stadler, who has made a programme in which you have joined NATO, where you have said that neutrality... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was you!]] Yes, of course! Yes, of course, but he was the one responsible for the program. See how nervous they are! But now, where one separates from the government and makes opposition policy again, one throws it overboard. - Okay, it's supposed to be. [[Further calls by Dr Graf and Mag. Stadler.]] We have always been whether in the government or in the opposition – you see how nervous you will be at once when you remind yourself of the principles – for the home. Homeland, however, requires something different than to carry forward slogans somewhere, but really to stand there when it is unpleasant. To stand up for safety, especially if it costs something, may be unpleasant. I now ask, all here in this House, who have a special relationship with the Austrian federal army, the Gaál, Prehauser Members, or the military soldiers we have here, the Lieutenant Lieutenant Bösch, the Colonel Weinzinger, the Brigadier of the Miliz Fichtenbauer: Do you really feel good when you sit in a boat about one thing, even though you know exactly that it's not about clarifying anything? The arguments that have come to us today have been chewed a hundred times, a hundred times discussed in committees. Nothing's been spoken! It has been discussed for months in the Federal Council, which normally had 5 minutes' committees. All the people have been questioned. – So always the same arguments, the same questions, the same answers, and you try to mix everything through a biterl, so to speak, to put something new again. Do you really feel good in the boat with people who conscious of this project as well as others – now it's the interception hunters, at the end of the nineties it was the tanks – say it's all bad? Everything that has to do with weapons, which has to do with security policy, is bad. The Federal Army is also bad and heard in truth abolished. Whether that's federal army light or anything else, barracks closures – no matter what, that's bad in your opinion. In doing so, you play with a certain basic attitude among some of the people who say: As long as you don't feel the threat, we don't need it all – and not even if it costs money. This is what we are playing with, as was the case today in Mr Strache's speech. They say what you can buy with the money you save here. We could reorganise the whole social system if only you didn't have to spend so much – in brackets: unfortunately so little – on your own security. This should be considered by anyone who, like me, makes a personal contribution to security when he next attracts the uniform of the Austrian federal army, not the galauniform at the officer's ball, but the suit when it comes to bearing responsibility and protecting his own institution from such unqualified attacks! This should also be written in the main book here. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] What arguments are being put forward here! Mr Cap, I just stopped for a moment because I thought that now something really new is coming. Mr Cap said: Something new is coming today, you'll see! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He discovered the Internet!]] Then what does he bring? He went into the Internet and said: Now I have the proof that the Eurofighter war apparatus is! What's the evidence? - A on-board gun has the Eurofighter. So, how bad, an on-board gun, colleague Cap. And sidewinder arms! After disaster! – Skill You remember the Dragons? In 1991 he had only one on-board gun. It's bad for the Dragons! A war apparatus you bought there! But then, in the Slovenia crisis, one has seen that it may not be so good if one can possibly let our pilots with these planes go into a confrontation with aircraft that have such steering weapons and our devices for miles – you have also shown this as evidence of war equipment. At that time, even the provisions of neutrality and the State Treaty had to be changed in order to be able to acquire steering weapons. So, Mr Cap, have we now had war equipment with the Draken? Did you purchase war equipment for the Austrian army? Yes or no. - No? - Okay, then the Eurofighter we're getting isn't a war machine either. - Or is it? - Then you have to take yourself by the nose. Lead You are not going to continue to be such an insatiable line of argument, as we have seen in recent years. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] And then you say you have never given an opinion on the EU contribution. Finally, Mr Cap, if we answer you here, take out the earrings. I have said quite openly here several times that from my point of view it would be reasonable – and this, by the way, was also said by the former spokesperson of the FPÖ, Jung – that Austria would contribute to the European security concept, because this highly technical contribution would save us to register many thousands of soldiers accordingly. The government of yours has decided and committed to making its own contribution. I'll tell you: With 18 aircraft this is not possible, but with this decision for the Eurofighter, we have also opted for a development potential that will benefit future federal governments. Whenever you're from the SPÖ in a government, that's all different. You, Mr Gaál, have said that you would never have talked to anyone about it. – I remember the draft government programme from the year 2000, in which you had already made up the procurement for the interception hunters. - So it's not like that. If you are from the SPÖ in the government, then it is natural, because then you know about the state-political responsibility, but if you are in the opposition, then you are consciously incite the mood against the Austrian federal army. If you are talking about alternatives – I have heard them several times again today – then please tell us which alternatives are available. All right, I've heard alternatives, too: just steering-gun plane defense, steering-arms and radar. So shoot first and then ask if this has been justified or not. That was Mr Kostelka; Kostelka brought this. Now in the election campaign we have heard – I think it was Mr Darabos who said that – that other countries should participate in this, a non-combating country. Well, the Czech Republic and Hungary, they said, they don't want to. I don't know why. If so, then these countries are friends, but no, you don't want to. Switzerland! Wonderful! Switzerland has already given you the answer and told you that it is a neutral country and, of course, cannot take over this task for Austria. I also say quite frankly to you that this would also be a very expensive solution, because it would not be free of charge. And I tell you, I would rather invest this money in my own device, in your own capacities and then decide for yourself where, when and how our own devices are used with our own pilots. That is also another view of things. You can do it like Slovenia. They are NATO members, and they now insist that NATO will decide when the airspace will be monitored. So this is not really an argument to be supported in this area either. There are now proposals for resolutions. A "epochal" motion for a resolution Gaál, Pilz, Strache, Herbs, Kogler, Rosary, in which it is said to dissolve the Eurofighter Treaty cost-effectively. – We just heard, the exit costs 1 billion €. [[Abg. Strache: It's claimed!]] Is that cheap or not? They're already being produced, my dear colleague. [[Abg. Strache: It's claimed!]] Some of them are already in the factory halls. Where are you going to get out of there? The difference amount should then be used for everything. There is a request, which Mr Pilz will probably bring in, to abolish the tuition fees. The tuition fees are € 140 million per year. If you switch to a cheaper variant – that was a maximum of 5 percent or 10 percent of the cost difference; I don't know, it's not exactly that much – you save yourself between € 10 million and € 20 million per year. In addition, 1 billion € will be added for the exit. So that's an expensive business. In any case, it would never be possible to compensate for the tuition fees. You still want to reduce the schooling maximums by this money. The SPÖ wants to guarantee pensions and create jobs. All this at € 10 to 20 million per year. Wonderful! If you bring this together, then I am the first to stand there and vote for this government, because then you really are geniuses when you bring it together, with a savings of € 10 to 20 million a year, to clean up the entire social system in Austria. We're going another way. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We would like to say: Control yes, but a clear no to the Party policy playing out the security of the country, because we stand without If and But for Austrian defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6877	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6898	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! Before dealing with the control considerations of Mr Scheibner and Mr BZÖ, I would like to acknowledge your honest commitment to the federal army for the defence of the state. However, they set wrong priorities, and the Eurofighter is such a wrong priority. Mr Minister, I cannot, of course, spare you any accusations. To the President of the Federal Republic of Germany by night and fog, like a pot of hot earth apples, does a Minister of Defense deal with the chief commander of the German army? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Or, Minister: ==References== On July 18, 2003, in the “Time in Figure 2” from a Court of Auditors Raw Report, the Court of Auditors quoted only favourable passages for the government, although the Court of Auditors – that was on July 18th. July 2003 – has also said that the Eurofighters are only limited enough and much is not comprehensible. Mr Minister, can you do this to the Court of Auditors and can you say that to Parliament? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Or, Minister of State: You have repeatedly said that everything is correct, legal, transparent – and yet you will remain guilty of answers. It is always incomplete, not enough, not understandable. Can you imagine that to the population? Can you say that to the taxpayer and the taxpayer? Ladies and gentlemen! If there has been a last confirmation of the vital need for this committee of inquiry, then today there were the missing answers from the Federal Minister. Mr Platter, you are here before the National Council, the highest control body of the Republic of Austria, and if you refuse to reply here, only a committee of inquiry can carry out this task. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The last argument you argue so much against a committee of inquiry is that the Court of Auditors has examined three times and everything is wonderfully fine. – What does the Court of Auditors say about this? Only with regard to the conduct did he examine. Only one side of the contract, namely the public hand, did he examine only partial aspects – all without a duty of truth and without an examination of the political responsibility, as only a committee of inquiry can do. Do you know who said that, Mr Minister and ladies and gentlemen? – Yes, President of the Court of Auditors Josef Moser himself. And it was a few days ago, namely, on 27 July. ==References== So I really ask that this little original argument, which the Court of Auditors has examined and everything is fine, not to be used here in the final analysis, because it is simply an unreasonable argument and does not correspond to reality! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Opinion on the Treaties was delivered in May 2003. The Federal Chancellor gave explicit praise to the negotiated contracts, it is said. This is a great outcome of the negotiations, and the government has chosen a clear, transparent way here. Thus, “great negotiation outcome” and “glass-clear transparent way”. .Apologise, ladies and gentlemen, what does a committee of inquiry talk about when a great deal has been negotiated and when everything is crystal clear and transparent anyway? A short time to the BZÖ and the role of the Kärntner head of state. Originally he padded: ‘Jörg Haider stops the catchers’. A bit later he became a glowing admirer of the Eurofighter, and then he said at once in the “NEWS”: I'm missing evidence, but anyone has benefited. – Does treason pay off? Mr Scheibner, do we not want to help Mr Haider out of his state of proof? Don't we want to clear up Jörg Haider's doubts? Would you not agree – I ask you to consider this – to the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry? As a future opposition party, do you really want to make such a capital false start and destroy the credibility of your group here on the first day? That can't really be Your intention is to be yours and yours! [[Abg. Oils: They make it smooth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been here in the house since 1991 and the most elderly Members in the control area. I really know many facets of political everyday life, for eight years as a member of a government party, for six years as a member of the opposition, but should not link us with the honourable Member, Mr Scheibner, that our most important task is to control the government, regardless of party membership. Is this not just a democratic obligation and in the interest of the taxpayer? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an application for a ministerial post!]] Ladies and gentlemen – especially those who have been warmly congratulated today, for which I am warmly congratulated –: Is it not, in the end, a question of political self-esteem, how to understand its role here? What is the point of this Committee of Inquiry? How is he supposed to go? In any case, quite different from the BAWAG Committee in recent weeks and months, because this committee has been used as an electoral instrument in terms of dates, witnesses and the Presidency. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Uh, clear!]] It was at least one-sided to express it carefully. I guarantee the SPÖ that an objective and professional parliamentary work will be done in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee with fairness, balance and respect for the witnesses. [[Abg. Murauer: Whoever believes it will be blessed!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this new legislative period, we are making a commitment to parliamentarianism and we are also showing respect and humility to the people who want this investigation – and together we decide on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7025	The next item is the report by Mr Murauer, with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7062	It will certainly be difficult to teach you that there is no taste in the type decision. This is the difficulty we have here in this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: The opportunity for this is given to you here!]] Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is – you are right, Mr Ollinger – a strange situation: On the morning, each Member/Member has promised to take account of the Constitution accordingly and to act independently as a Member and to recognise the Constitution. And in the afternoon, there is already a motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gaál, Pilz, Strache – Strache, of course, he already knows everything, although he has only been inside for a few hours, “Oberblichter” he has said – herbs, Kogler and Rosary to the Eurofighter exit. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's been so long inside and still doesn't understand anything!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The position is already very interesting to keep neutrality high and to present the Constitution accordingly – but to say on the other hand: Government, with the state defense, which also provides for airspace surveillance, with which we want nothing to do! And now even the type of decision for the Eurofighter, that has occurred to anyone at night, perhaps the Minister or the generals, who obey and marvel here, who give some new insights here. [[Abg. Strache: This may well be very close to the truth!]] There's nothing new about it. Federal Minister Platter, I admire you! With stoic peace, with an accuracy, with a patience, you always provide information, precise information, comprehensive information. And then one or the other recovers and says, If we had other planes if we had other aircraft! But nobody says which one. Nobody says: Mr Strache, not Mr Gaál, Mr Pilz, or anyone else has spoken. Which planes do you want? Get out of here and say we want any aircraft – I don't know – because they're failed, faster, better and so on. The Eurofighter is too fast for you, the other one is technically too high and so on. So everyone has his particular reasons why this strange alliance has come about. On the one hand, Mr Gusenbauer. He always tells us that he would like to go into a coalition with the ÖVP and what he does not tell everything in the people and how he represents this coalition in the people, and now he serves us a committee of inquiry, although one knows that the Court of Auditors has audited. Many are now doubting the Court of Auditors' competence to examine, are they? Mr Kräber says that the Court of Auditors is probably checking, but not all, but only a committee of inquiry is able to actually examine. We have a subcommittee, we have had urgent questions, we have dealt with the audit reports of the Court of Auditors, not once and not twice, but x-times, and we have all seen that these contracts, that this procurement is not an exit purchase, but a purchase of aircraft to monitor our airspace. Do you know what I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? You don't want this coalition. You want to get out, you want to tell us: We do not want to cool with the ÖVP, even if we do differently in front of the population! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it!]] So all three parties to this strange coalition have their particular reasons. On the one hand, these are the green ones, of course. The next is Mr Pilz, who will come out, who wants to scandalize everything anyway. He'll have a note on it again. Nobody can read it because it's too far away. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] He has all the evidence, and he has spoken again to all those who have said something to him, but secret and only in trust. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Only the Pilz knows what's wrong here is manipulation, gift acceptance and so on. He'll tell us. The goal of the Greens is to abolish the military, the national defense to undermine the military, because they do not want to. That's what Mr Pilz says, he writes, the Greens tell us. – This is an access to this alliance. The second access, of course, is that of Mr Strache and the Freedom Party. They want to wipe out one of the discs, that's what it says: [[Abg. You're already in there!]] The Scheibner was Minister of Defense, we have now worked apart, and this is the opportunity for us to give him one, so we are once for this committee of inquiry! - We're already looking that far, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. There's the ÖVP inside!]] The socialists can imagine themselves because of their developments – I don't call the BAWAG at all now, but Noricum or AKH and so on – simply not that you can make such large procurements without gift acceptance, without manipulation. They mean: There's someone who needs to cut, because everyone else has cut with us somewhere! So this must also be the case, so your view. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] So there is a coalition, which is very strange, where in the run-up one of the others has already said: For God's sake, for the Greens and the Free! Professor Van der Bellen! Mr. Oberleuchter Strache! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Go on! Common interest, everyone has their goal – and already you are together! And, of course, the socialists can need this to have a beautiful exit – out of a consideration, with the ÖVP a government – in order to have a beautiful exit. Ladies and gentlemen! With us in this form certainly not! The security of our country should not suffer – and not even because of your party-political games!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7206	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz, with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7227	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The honourable Member, Mr Murauer, has finished his speech with the remarkable call: Not with us! That's up to the 1st. On October, something else means that nothing can be decided without you in this House. Today's called an ÖVP co-in-non, then stop without you. That's not a problem. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Okay! Yes, I do! But with Mr. Strache!]] Since today, from this 30th anniversary. October you have to get used to the fact that the National Council works differently, that it does not have a willless attachment to a single party with a few delegates, bodyguards or whatever is always, but that there are other conditions now. I hope – this is for the Social Democrats and Social Democrats – that this is not a window of a free National Council at a transitional stage, but that something will happen now, that something will change, that the National Council will be strengthened, that the Rules of Procedure will be changed, that the political announcements of the newly elected President will also be realized. Secondly, The urgent question of SPÖ has been answered by the State organ Platter. State organ Platter – this is not at all a negative concept, because it has been introduced by Mr Bundeskanzler into the political debate – that is, State organ Platter has always explained one thing in the National Council: The National Council does not have the insight into the Eurofighter Treaty. . But now Platter has given the Eurofighter Treaty to the State organ Schüssel, which is currently a changing Federal Chancellor's body and the representative state body Schüssel, and the State organ Schüssel has appointed the Member of the Gusenbauer as a state body and has handed over the Eurofighter Treaty to him for study. Is that silence? Is this dealing with confidential contracts: that one says that the National Council must not know anything about it, but occasionally after the German Chancellor is beat by someone as a state body and then gets the Eurofighter Treaty? [[Abg. Oillinger: Fassleven is also a state organ!]] According to the deep knowledge of Mr Fasslevend, I suspect the secret-state organ Fasslevend. And obviously there are still some hidden state organs in the ranks of the Austrian People's Party. I suggest: Let's stop these complicated state-organizations! Let's take the story to an investigative committee! Before the investigation committee, all witnesses are the same, and there will be the Eurofighter Treaty as one of many documents immediately. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, the figures of Herbert Scheibner, who did not only learn to calculate as a Member, but at that time also had his difficulties as Minister of Defense. I put forward a motion for a resolution and I will then justify it with figures, Mr Scheibner. [[Quoted print version removed]] Where is the connection to Eurofighter procurement? [[Abg. Murauer: No one at all!]] That's easy. None of us want the budget deficit to be increased in a willful way, no one thinks of us – whether government or opposition – of radical tax increases, which remains, is re-imposition within the budget. - That's it. How high is the potential for savings in airspace monitoring in peace times, that is, in the challenging project of bringing a camera to the vicinity of an unknown flight object with jet hunters, having the trigger operate as many times as possible, and then bringing the aircraft and camera to landing unharmed? Samt subsequent evaluation of the photography of course. [[Abg. Oils: That's what you're doing digitally!]] Eurofighter: In the first ten years, including operating costs, €300 million per year. 230 million are the purchase price plus other system costs, 70 million the operating costs already known to us. What does the current replacement solution cost? – According to information provided by the Ministry of Defence: Leasing of the F 5 from the Swiss Air Force, including operating costs: € 17 million per year. Difference: € 283 million per year. This is the Grasser difference, and the investigative committee will have the opportunity to demonstrate why the Minister of Finance is the chief responsible for the useless and unfoundable waste of €283 million per year for the following ten years in the still in office government. And that is why there is today a motion for a resolution that goes beyond the requests for committee of inquiry – it has already been submitted and read by Mr Gaál – and I am asking the Minister of Defence not only to take it seriously, but also to respond to the possible majority of the National Council. We propose and call for the preparation and implementation of the exit from the contract. We propose and demand that negotiations with Eurofighter GmbH, the German Ministry of Defence and others be terminated at least immediately. And we demand that no further services of Eurofighter GmbH be reduced because, according to Part A, point 28.1. of the purchase contract, Eurofighter GmbH's reduced services lead to mandatory payments by the Republic of Austria. All that you are going to lose from today, Mr. Defence Minister, falls into your personal responsibility against a possible majority of the National Council, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, after a possible majority decision-making of this request, the situation is fundamentally changing for you. You cannot simply continue and say that ‘the National Council has...’, you will have to answer the question from tonight, at the latest tomorrow, whether you are following the majority of the National Council and implementing this resolution and whether you are particularly willing to follow these two concrete points. If not, then it is very important to consider in every respect, political and legal, which additional responsibilities you take on politically, but also personally. Today, the National Council will take account of the dignity of this House on a particularly important issue of its acute responsibility in one of the biggest misinvestments of the Second Republic. You should take this seriously, too. If there are decisions here, if there is a danger in the delay of the National Council, then it is with you, Minister of Defence, and with you, Federal Chancellor, to judge whether you are holding against a majority of the National Council on the Eurofighter or whether a minimum level of reason is finally required for security policy and budgetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7343	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Belen, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7415	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler with a voluntary time limit of 8 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7436	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament has constitutional information rights, and to ignore these rights of information, is a regular expression of this Parliament's disdain, my dear colleague Werner Fassleven, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you have been doing with this House for months and years now in the Eurofighter case is, I say, a gross disregard for the freely elected sovereign of this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. And now I ask you who conforms to the constitution here and who acts unconstitutionally: Those who call for information to exercise their constitutional rights, or those who step with your feet, Mr Fassleven? At first, dear Werner Fassleven, you would have been better silent – si tacuisses..., to talk to Boethius – because the question would have to be addressed to you if it was not more reasonable to examine ways of getting out now instead of making a similar mistake as you made when you bought your Leopard tanks for 500 million, which we have on the Schrotthalde today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore a legitimate right of this House to examine this, even if you, ladies and gentlemen, come with the replacement monarchic Attire: “What’s the matter?” as Ferdinand the Good or, as he was called in the mouth of the people, as the finished man said: How about making a revolution? – Can the House decide on a proposal by a majority against the EIA? The next question is: May the electorate of the Austrian People's Party take away mandates? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just telling you. Both the one and the other are allowed. Therefore: Their attempts to make this Eurofighter Examining Committee an exit scenario for coalition negotiations because the voters have erred and have ignored their God-given right to eternal governmental power, this game will not be played, ladies and gentlemen. We also have a right to education and the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This mystery, which you organize here with this contract, makes you really suspicious. That makes you suspicious, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore need Neither do I talk to you about a tribunal, because even if it were a tribunal, I tell you in every form: If this tribunal is provided for constitutionally, then the establishment of this tribunal is also in order, ladies and gentlemen, the High House. So don't be so larmoyant! Her bad conscience has already worn the next styling flower today. In the end, President Khol forbade Austrian broadcasting, the ORF, to broadcast this debate live, ladies and gentlemen. You know that. Therefore, there is only reason to cover up the Eurofighter, block, ignore information rights and lead the Hohe Haus around the nose and the Austrian public to do so. Mr Fassleven, no good service that you have done today. If you are one of the few who had the right to take into account the exclusive, almost aristocratic right to have access to the Treaty, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in an unconstitutional manner, presupposes the silence of this House, if you had this right, I demand the equal treatment of this House. I also ask for the right for each of these 183 elected Members to be consulted, ladies and gentlemen, High House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a right which cannot only be granted to you, Mr Fassleven. However, I was particularly touched by the larmoyant speech of the engineer of the oranges. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, some engineers have vowed, you know, but he has made a special oath, because he has not been asked whether he wants to go with the request, which is quite peculiar in view of the media coverage of the alleged co-cut actions of people from his environment. That is the case, as if the prosecutor did not want to invite the perpetrator to participate in the investigations at the investigation desk, ladies and gentlemen. – That’s not how we play this game! We have already known why we will not be introduced to you – if I look at how the Gatterich, the Prince of the Vice-Chancellor, was served by the Stronach outside service with his corresponding contracts. I look at what Mr. Landeshuptmann of Carinthia explains, who had previously put on a poster during the 2002 National Council election campaign: “Haider instead of catchers!” "Haider instead of a catcher" was the foreign exchange at the time. Then, in a conversation with Heinz-Christian Strachegeschagen, Haider has said he can do everything, but he can no longer touch the catcher in the future. Then there's no party of his own, he said. That is what Haider is supposed to tell us in the committee – if he is under a duty of truth – which has led to his change of mind that he has suddenly become such a glowing champion of this interception hunter. He should explain this when he is called before this committee under a duty of truth. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, to the Court of Auditors. Mrs Fekter, this is the difference. Their all-recurrences to the prosecutor's office, to the Court of Auditors, they go to emptiness. You should know for yourself, you're a trained lawyer, like I took your biography. You would have to know that the prosecutor has something quite different to examine than this investigation committee. We are not yet so far that criminal actions are already in place. It may well be the case, that will prove to be the case. Then the prosecutor will be very likely to be active. But until then, it is only a question of the investigation carried out by the investigative committee, which is a matter of political responsibility, and perhaps in further succession of legal, possibly even criminal proceedings. Or the activities of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Herzegovina has rightly pointed out that we did not say that the scale of the The Court of Auditors is quite different in its review of this deal, but that does not mean that anyone less than the one you so highly esteemed and well-known now-known President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors Dr. Josef Moser. Since my colleague has mentioned it, I quote literally from the “Presse” of the 28th century. October 2006, i.e. recent dates: “Moser stressed that the Court of Auditors was in principle examining – and thus also the Eurofighter Treaty – only with regard to the relevance to the conduct. Moreover, he could always examine only one side of the contract, the public hand, but not the other partner. This is only a partial aspect, Moser says. In addition, there is no obligation of truth in the case of RH-tests, such as those given in an investigation committee.” – Citations. Thank you, President of the Court of Auditors. That was the best recommendation for this committee at all, namely to point out the duty of truth. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is no way by this committee of inquiry. So your mystery is once and for all crisscrossed. If you believe that a national election campaign will have to break off the fence, then you will do it, but you will not be able to save the charges before the committee during the current election campaign. – By the way, the socialists also do not deal with the investigation of the BAWAG stories. I wish you a lot of pleasure in such a campaign today. It will exorbitantly decrease your desire for such an election campaign, once this Committee of Inquiry has once taken up its necessary activity. That is why I am already looking forward to this activity and I have gladly agreed to participate in this committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7564	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mr Scheuch.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7585	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would like to make a brief comment before coming to the real subject, Mr Volksanwalt. D.: I have often considered in recent months whether the decision to separate from the FPÖ was a good one for us or not. I often questioned this critically myself and also discussed it with many relatives and friends. [[Abg. That's right!]] Thank you. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, today after your speech and after your appearance, Mr. Volksanwalt a. D., as rarely before, I am convinced that it was right to separate and that it was right to go a constructive way, to be successful and not to discuss it forever afterwards. [[Abg. Street: Minus nine mandates! That was the right thing!]] And because you talked about this TV transmission being censored or stopped: They were themselves long enough executive clubman and know that such decisions are included in the presidential. This has been a presidential decision, which, I assume, has been taken unanimously as so many other presidential decisions – if it were not, one would tell us. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Thank you, so it was not taken unanimously. Mr Oellinger was in the presidency, he knows. Good. On today's issue of Eurofighter Investigation Committee, fighter aircraft procurement, and thus a discussion which we have very often led to in this House in recent years. There were very many urgent debates, written questions, short-term debates and more. In reality, however, it was always the same discussion. At the beginning of the legislative period, there was still a very strong agitation to get rid of these planes at all. The longer the legislative period has taken, the more one has been capriculated to say: We're just against the Eurofighter, we're just against this type decision. That is to say, one has realized that it makes little sense to be against it in general, but it has been emphasized that only against this type of decision. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the Committee of Inquiry is an important instrument of Parliament, which cannot be questioned, that we must accept majority voting in this House, and that, above all, we must accept the majority in the people, that we must accept electoral decisions. Today, all the club members held this at the beginning of their speeches: The Sovereign, the People, has decided. There are other majorities, and you have to accept them. Ladies and gentlemen, one should always confess to democratic majority voting. I think it is particularly important that we do not use democratic majority groups when you need them, and then move them away if you don't need them. And this should also be considered by Mr Ollinger – even though he is now laughing at it, but that is an important point –: These democratic majority groups have been there, and one should accept that a government which has a democratically elected majority in this Parliament has taken these decisions. This was clearly beyond doubt: A democratically elected government, which had a majority, has decided on this. [[Abg. Oils: Can't you control that?]] - Yes! It was checked. It was checked in three Court of Auditors reports, it was checked most thoroughly, it was checked three times. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please, don't go again!]] They say: Please, not the same again! – We always have to answer the same thing if you always come up with the same stupid questions. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Nothing has changed: There are still the very same questions, and we will therefore still give the same answers. Shall I tell you something? [[Abg. May. Trunk: Who were the dark powers of Jörg Haider? Why was...?]] - Melitta Trunk, if I didn't know you better, I'd answer now. If I didn't know better, I'd answer now. – It is no longer a matter of ridiculousness! I say quite clearly to you: In this Parliament, other parties now have democratic majority groups, namely SPÖ, together with the Greens and the FPÖ. These parties have elected and accepted a democratic majority in this country. Why don't you have the courage and form a government and order the interception hunter? [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally order him off – why don't you trust yourself? That would be the simplest thing. To hide behind a committee of inquiry in Parliament and to operate party-political agitation is ridiculous! Finally, on the basis of this request, make a government! Mr. Strache, even if you are still sitting in there completely new, you will learn this very quickly: By a majority you can decide everything in this House. [[Abg. Strache: You can really count up to two?- Oh, my God!]] - No, two are not enough. It takes three, you have not yet learned to count up to three, Mr Strache. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Two alone have no majority. These are the two big ones, you need three. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] Either forget about yourself – or you haven't learned to count. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] So: Think about it once! Make a government: Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, or, in order to meet your wish, you will get the Gabi Burgstaller from Salzburg. That's it. Vice-Cancellor H.C. Strache, second Vice-Cancellor, Professor Van der Bellen. And then this government in its first Council of Ministers can take a decision: It can simply unsubscribe from these horrendous, expensive, useless and ah!, so bad interception hunters – and the problem is solved. We'll save ourselves months of investigation committees, and you'll finally be able to do it. Their election promises and can say to the people: We did it. That would be the simplest thing. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] But: No one wants that, otherwise this government would have been formed. No, we really need a political theme of agitation. The SPÖ needs a reason why it does not want to negotiate with the ÖVP; the ÖVP needs a reason why it may not want to negotiate with the SPÖ; the FPÖ and the Greens, who are strong enough to be able to form a government, lean to the second row, watch and mix a little. [[Abg. Strache: And you really want to be there, don't you?]] Mr. Strache, that's ridiculous. We don't want to be there. We have acknowledged that we do not have the majority, so we are not there. We'll do our opposition work. [[Abg. Oils: He was good! Opposition by non-control!]] We'll continue to rule where we're strong, as in Carinthia, where you didn't make it. But here you have the opportunity to end the dilemma. For four years – and I have been sitting in this house for four years – the Greens and the SPÖ have wanted to disappoint these aircraft. Four years! The FPÖ, when it was still responsible for government, did not want to do so. Reinhard Bösch – probably for this reason he has to sit in the last row as a long-served MP – is a significant example for everyone who knows parliamentarism: One does not like it in one's own group, he has to sit in the last row and now has to vote with the one Reinhard Bösch, who is negotiating here and who has often defended this type decision. It's ridiculous what you're producing here. You've got it in your hand, and we're all waiting for it: Make a government of red, green and blue, order the planes off – and the thing is done! [[Abg. Oils: And you're an orange minority government!]] This is quite, quite simply, short and painless, everyone has fulfilled their election promises, and we can continue to work in this country. Mr Oellinger, one more word on Orange. I trust I almost bet from this speaker's mouth that I have achieved the better results of the election than you do. I am authorized to speak here in this House. I won't let you forbid that. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't do any basic mandate! 1.8 percent!]] – Mr Strache! I've also overtaken your result on the right. That's not a problem. That's where you can hide! Let's compare our results in an open competition! Unfortunately, I have to take more time to speak than I actually wanted because you are discussing results and the like. It was you who stood out here half an hour ago or maybe an hour ago and said: FPÖ is clearly committed to neutrality, the FPÖ is against NATO accession. Herbert Scheibner then tried to explain that in your ranks a little bit, that you too were of different opinion. Then, out of the back benches of the Lord Graf and the Lord Stadler, they spoke and showed themselves with their finger: It's not like that! [[Abg. That's a nonsense! We have deleted this passage from the program!]] Mr Stadler, 1996, “ZiB 2” original quote from you; You know it very well: Neutrality is past, NATO accession is the only right way to the future. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] – That’s the original quote, and if it’s not true, you can put it right. I'm sure you won't succeed. Do not try to be here the “Grailman, ” the guardian of truth and honesty! That's ridiculous! Let us go quite openly and courageously beyond the people, with the majority who are present. The BZÖ – I do not know how the EIA will decide – will not agree to this Committee of Inquiry because there is no reason for it because the Court of Auditors has examined the matter because it is okay because it is very expensive and because very, very many experts would disapprove of it. You have the political majority, so make up a government! Get out of Eurofighter's procurement, otherwise you won't be left with anything but to continue to act politically here! But that won't help. I'm convinced: At the end of the day, when the SPÖ sits in the government, it will fly these Eurofighters well and gladly. Mr Gaál, who talks about such a discussion every time, will probably be the first person to sit in this Eurofighter. Mr President. Our party confesses itself to this aircraft acquisition. We will not vote in favour of this committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7832	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Lapp with a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7863	Mr President, Good for your presidency! Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheuch has just shown you what it is like if one had to switch from a former government party to the Nirwana of the Carinthian state of affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the word of the Austrians, all 183 Members, we have responsibility to the electorate. We have always taken action by the Social Democrats to ensure that the operations around the Eurofighters are clarified in a complete manner. This is not something that has come to light in the course of the last week, but it is a desire that we have been following very strongly in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marek.]] We don't like secrecy and cover up. Mr Murauer, I would like to very clearly reject your statement that the SPÖ is always to be found where gift acceptance is concerned. Mr President, this is not the case, I must reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity, even in our hands, to bring a strong Parliament to life, because that is important for democracy. We are in the position of voters, and we need democratic education for them. [[New call of the abg. Marek.]] President of the Court of Auditors Moser said last week that the Court of Auditors had always examined only a few aspects. There is no obligation of truth as in a committee of inquiry, he meant. There is a need for strong democratic, parliamentary control. He also said that the examination in an investigation committee was a parliamentary responsibility, that is, Parliament's responsibility. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We don't want any tribunals, we want information, we want information. Let the light and air go into Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would just like to mention a few points that have not yet been clarified, even today, by Mr Platter, the Minister of Defence, why the type-approval has been changed in a few days, why delivery times have been postponed, why the first rate is only paid in January 2007, why there is only one year guarantee, why the re-sale of the Eurofighter would be possible only with the agreement of the manufacturer, why there is only a small fee for the manufacturer if the contract is not respected, and why there is a limited liability. The Court of Auditors report states that it is only part of the actual cost of operation. It also states that there was no equivalence of offers due to the different purchasing and operating costs, and the information is not available to the full extent. Furthermore, a Court of Auditors report states that the Federal Ministry of Finance has not set a cost limit for procurement. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that taxpayers have to pay – no matter how high the costs for these Eurofighters are. And we from the Social Democrats want to stop that. We want transparency and control! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We cannot accept the Greens' request, which has the content of the exit from the Eurofighter Treaty for the purpose of resolving the miscarriage of education, because we want to resolve the miscarriage of education in all cases, and not only if there is an exit from the Eurofighter Treaty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are other points that the Court of Auditors have listed in relation to the procurement of Eurofighters: For example, that the life cycle costs of Eurofighters do not represent operating costs, that there are different withdrawal periods and that for the contract creation of counter-contracts... [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Colleague, can you explain this to us? We didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you explain this to us?]] Dear Mr. Scheibner, you are always saying that everything is transparent. . I quote here from the Court of Auditors' reports, where, for example, there are different withdrawal periods or that life cycle costs are not operating costs. The general sense of the house of every person here in this hall is sufficient to recognize the difference: It was not installed here, but it was financed and financed at the expense of taxpayers. And that is why we want to inform, and that is why a committee of inquiry is urgently needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Explain the difference to us!]] The Ministry of Economic Affairs has not used the financial procuratorship for the contract creation of counter-contracts, but has commissioned a law firm that has received €60 000 in Gage for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! You see, we're talking about clarity, we're talking about transparency. We are also concerned with reliability to the Austrians. We are in the word of the Austrians who want to know what happens to their taxpayers and what they are used for. That's our responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7971	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner, with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7993	Mr President. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we discuss this subject, it reminds me of the film “And daily the Murmeltier greets me. ” [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Why is there again here today – in the 20th century? Sometimes or what do I know – this urgent request and the request for the setting up of an investigation committee? At least I think there must be something new. But what was presented was absolutely nothing new. It was partly the same words as in 2003 – for example, when I think about Mr Gaál's speech with the sintering combat machines, but also about what Mr Cap said. So I have to say, I am really surprised, and my surprise also refers to the second question: Why now? Why is this brought exactly today, on the day of constitution? I am then quite surprised when I hear that you are only concerned with getting information and information. Ladies and gentlemen, we are carrying out this by an example that I have found in your urgent question, but also in the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. That is the point of looking at the role of the Chamber of Commerce in the procurement of Eurofighters. To this end, I would like to say the following: Actually, I would have expected you to be – I am responsible for this area in the Chamber of Commerce – or to ask our President: What did you have to do with the procurement? Have you intervened there, have you written anything or done anything? – Nothing like that was the case! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: We are not a private event!]] I therefore think that any party or you at least, Mr Herbs, or who always has interest in education, should ask before! That was not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I must tell you that quite the opposite was the case, namely that we did not act in the Chamber of Commerce until the counter-businesses were to be settled. This was a very clear goal, as it should be directed: firstly, as high counter-actions as possible, secondly sufficiently distributed regionally, thirdly centre-oriented and fourthly technology-oriented. – This is a very clear goal. You say you can't understand. That's where I have to ask you: Don't you read the reports from FACC or others? I don't want to call the other companies because I don't know if they agree. These have very clear advantages, they have created demonstrable jobs. They say: That's all not true, we don't care. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is the basis, but we have also seen our task of informing businesses. We were very critical of EADS because it was not medium-sized at first. EADS has supported us. We have established 1 189 contacts with medium-sized enterprises, corresponding answers have come and there are now more than 200 companies involved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies of Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner.]] Of the more than 200 companies, 70 percent are SMEs! Mr. Peter Pilz, you're setting up a milkmaid bill if you say like before: With the money we save ourselves, we do this and that and the study fees and jobs and so on. Have you already invented the calculation reform? Do we have to do everything we can after the spelling reform, now we have to carry out the calculation reform? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Look Once upon a time what happens in the field of counter-businesses, apart from the other, what you expect as costs. It will now be charged in approximately €800 million in settlements. In contracts, € 2 billion is outstanding. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the table!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: On the table with it!]] Do you believe that the companies that are the partners will not impose corresponding compensation requirements? Do you believe that this is how it all goes so that everyone says: Well, they're trying to break up the contract?- Oh, my God! I find it embarrassing anyway: Mr Van der Bellen is always so loosely away from the FPÖ to the outside, but here in Parliament he stands at Mr Stadler – about which I was shaken – and talks to him, not only about how they agree, but also about what they should write in terms of content. I have to say: Talk in there like this and outside! Show me what you want for a line! You can easily put it into practice. Make this coalition! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You already have this!]] Coming to the end, I have to tell you honestly: You're not just endangering the counter-businesses, you're risking jobs, you're endangering the location! The question is now crucial: Why Make Is that what you're doing now? Why don't you wait until the coalition negotiations are concluded? Why don't you tell me there's this and that shows up what couldn't be clarified? - You don't want to know. You don't want any information! They don't want any information! You heard all that. You just want one: You don't want a big coalition. They want new elections. At least tell me! Do it like that, then one with the other is equal to the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8099	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 4 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8121	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, please take your heart to heart: Learn democracy! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] It is a simple democratic decision. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is not a question of coalition, it is a question of parliamentarianism, Mr Mitterlehner. Simply calculate together – without a computer reform – how majority relations can be formed in this Parliament! [[Abg. Marek: We do that all the time!]] It is then clear that different majorities are possible in various matters. Today, we are making such a sample of nails as to practice parliamentarianism, to implement the majority will of the population here in this House, to pursue policy in the interests of taxpayers. That's all we want. We want clarity. Mrs Lapp has already mentioned exactly the argument that is also mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report. It's about creating clarity. We also wanted to create this clarity in the Committee on the Court of Auditors very solid and fully in line with the rules of business and in a fair manner. Our problem was that you have completely passed over the Court of Auditors with your majority. The problem was that officials who had been invited as information workers were retired. The problem was that documents were not created. The problem was that with your majority you simply passed over the powers of control that a Court of Auditors in itself must have. Now there is the other option. We have discussed this other possibility more often – now it has become real. Now you can really vote and find majority for the investigation – for saving, please! € 300 million a year – as Mr Pilz said – these photography fighters cost us. We owe it to taxpayers and Austrians to question it again. Nothing else we want now. Since Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has made it clear that the Court of Auditors survey report did not have the duty of truth and that the Court of Auditors does not have the duty to do so, we must apply for the Examining Committee, for there is a duty of truth. Since Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors said that the Court of Auditors could only examine those operations carried out by the public authorities, we need the committee of inquiry, because there are other operations outside the public sector. As the President of the Court of Auditors said that only sub-areas were examined more precisely by the Court of Auditors, we say: We need everything. We need pure table, all the different motives and facts must be presented. To this end, the Committee of Inquiry is necessary. Just remember what Mr Kogler has already said! I also had to observe that this tender procedure was inadequate. There's been a beekeeper crash. You can shake your head or deny it for so long, Mr. Platter, the Minister has now left. There was a beekeeper crash and within a week the position of the Ministry of Finance turned. Why?, let's ask. Why?, we asked the Court of Auditors. – The answer is not yet at the table, and that is why the Committee of Inquiry is necessary. A simple democratic right! Ladies and gentlemen, learn not only democracy, learn parliamentarianism and above all learn one thing: Control is essential! Control can also lead – I mean the ÖVP – to you being able to show a pure vest. We just need to control and your vest may be in. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have them!]] They won't let it happen, and that makes us so suspicious. That's why I'm saying: Come with the investigation committee and get away with the interceptors! [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's coming!]] Get out of the catchers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8199	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. Voluntary time limit: 7 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8220	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! With great respect for the House and this institution, I speak for the first speech and hope that I can represent parts of the political concern during this short period, but it should be sufficient. Firstly, I will give two answers to my previous speakers. With regard to Heinz-Christian Strachebe, Mr Scheuch, has doubts that he would be sufficiently good in his democratic assessment, namely in relation to Scheuch. I can answer: Heinz-Christian Strachehat won 15 600 preferential votes. I think that these are most of all... – or the second or third Masses. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] Who's got the most votes? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You got more? - I congratulate you. [[Abg. Strache: More than the German Chancellor!]] But he has more than the Chancellor. I would very much like to take a bet that Mr Scheuch has received far less preferential votes if he has received any. Secondly, Mr Scheibner asked me if I felt comfortable in my group. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, I didn't say that!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Probably not!]] Answer: I feel very comfortable because I did not belong to the shark force who found their argumentation field once on the left and once on the right – glued with expensive posters: Exit from the Eurofighter, back in the Eurofighter tomorrow. I feel very comfortable in this newly constituted parliamentary assembly. I've had my combat suit since the 1. October 1965 always worn, but admit that my parade suit may look more beautiful than yours, because I am a Brigadier, but it is also a joy to me. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm proud of mine!]] Furthermore, on behalf of my group, I cannot help but say that today's debate in the overall context is a continuum in the history of Austrian defence policy, and both major black and red fractions have never boasted in this history. Both have provided for it since the German army – once the other part in a leading position – that the German army has always been the unloved child. Both parties have never given their fundamental state-political orders and obligations the fair share of building up a consistent defence policy as possible. The ÖVP has done the first major case of sin in the matter of the aircraft required for the defence of Austria in the air. The incredible hetze, which has been broken off from a core country of the ÖVP, the Styria, against the Draken acquisition, is still in the best – in fact in worst – memory, and there has even been distrust applications by its own ÖVP delegates against the ÖVP defense ministers in the process of the procurement. [[Abg. Smoking callat: But that's been over for a long time!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What are you doing?]] I am doing nothing but a parliamentary right, which has already been indisputably said today that it should become a minority right to make use of and to sum up very soberly what there are questions. Where's the great excitement? Where's the scandal? I'm reflecting the scandal back. [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] The scandal is to find him in making use of a parliamentary institution just procedure. This scandalization is due to you because, as Mr Cap correctly said, you have begun a policy of passing by in the true words. From the interceptive aircraft, photography aircraft – because we only want to monitor – has been transferred. It remains, on behalf of the Freedom Party, only one thing when it comes to a completely ambiguous clarification: The observance of our country's sovereignty obligations in connection with the obligations arising from the neutrality status entails the need to ensure the sovereignty of the air in the form of defence. For this purpose, a combatable aircraft and not a photographer aircraft are also needed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a clear position. The sole purpose of the Committee of Inquiry is to verify whether the choice of type has been legal, flawless and without cause. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8365	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. The Group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8386	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If this debate has had something positive, then it must be clear to everyone what the SPÖ wants – it wants to re-elect. [[Abg. Dr. Rada: Yes!]] She's not interested in the matter! You started the election campaign again today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You did the opposite of what your first speaker said here today. That was your chairman Alfred Gusenbauer. What did he talk about? – He meant that we should work together to tackle the major challenges facing Austria and deal with what is best for the country in the next few years. A good intention, I thought. But remaining is the rhetorical floscle, because what you've delivered so far was exclusively directed to the past, ladies and gentlemen, and has nothing to do with what is going on in the future and what Austria is doing – but nothing at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cynical supremacy of Klubobmann Cap and also the way in which he made himself ridiculous on such a crucial question of the country, namely on the security question, leaves any seriousness missing and also shows very clearly that you are not willing to take responsibility. They say: If this Committee of Inquiry comes, then there will be priority. Mr Cap, that's about the way a vampire is making himself here, saying: From today I am available as a blood donor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] The exact opposite of what you say, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact what you have in mind. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In fact, you are mistrusting the rule of law because it has already been said: [[Abg. Sburny: The ÖVP, not the rule of law!]] Three Court of Auditors reports, multiple investigations by the public prosecutors have one thing: that this process was in order from the beginning to the back – it is just you that it does not fit into the concept. They have always blamed us for not taking neutrality seriously. You've always blamed us. You yourself cannot take neutrality seriously if you have now repeatedly proposed that we, as a neutral state, should not do our own airspace surveillance, but that our airspace surveillance should be carried out by other states. They have also made no single argument in relation to the Treaty, why this Committee of Inquiry should now come. Mr Gusenbauer, I accept that you know the contract. Did you find anything that would justify the establishment of an investigation committee? Then say it here! Come on. You out and tell me, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ always believes we can threaten. The mayor of Vienna, Häupl, says: In the event of a break in conversation, new elections! What I said is now also from Häupl, ladies and gentlemen. That's exactly what it is: in the event of a break in conversation, new elections. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it! APA!]] So either the ÖVP adds, or there are new elections. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Talk! That's all! What does “patch” mean?]] That's the scenario. Heupl made it known this minute about the APA, ladies and gentlemen. And you shake the head in your alliance, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen, with Stadler, Strache and Co. I hope you feel comfortable. I hope you're doing well for a long time in this coalition you've formed. [[Abg. Oillingers: You did the coalition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One cannot seriously hold government talks with the ÖVP if at the same time one closes an unholy tripartite alliance, a tripartite coalition with the Strache-FPÖ... [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8516	Please put the final sentence to the vote, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8531	... and with the green group under fungus. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8567	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. His group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8589	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is relatively rare to have the chance to experience live government of the new species threat – land threat – threat; in this case it is not irrelevant – it sounds a bit infantile – who has begun. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] We really need to talk about it now: Who started? Tell the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Mr Noch-Bundeskanzler Schüssel, Mr Klubobmann Molterer: Do you really think that preventing Eurofighter's Enlightenment to BAWAG and Hypo Alpe-Adria is more important to you than a government education?- Oh, my God! Is it really true that you say that if Parliament is informed that the National Council – since you are no longer able to prevent parliamentary control after the loss of absolute rule in this Republic – is now taking this right seriously and is taking this right, despite the ÖVP, then we are not participating in the Federal Government, then we are suspending government negotiations, then we are in the smoldering and smoldering against the Republic, against the majority of parliament and against the majority of voters?- Oh, my God! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Call the Greens: The voters!]] Dr. Schüssel, if that's your answer and if you think you can play with threats, but without drops again as a player with the SPÖ at a poker table, remember for the first time that it's not about you, about your party, but about the future of the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8644	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8666	I'm afraid we'll discuss this openly! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You just have your Spin Doctors spread that today you are planning to interrupt the talks with us to form a government, at an indefinite time – that is a good call, a very good call to intervene, that should be included in the protocol – because you do not want to be used in parallel to the work of a democratically elected one – we will see if it has a majority –, constitutional investigation committee calls for the formation of a federal government. [[Abg. Rädler: Thank God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Constitutional!]] This should be communicated to the Austrians in peace and quiet. We sit together in the negotiations, and a member of your negotiation team says that the talks take place with eye-catching contacts, as when North Korea and South Korea sit together. - That's not all right. [[Abg. Rädler: “Napalm election”!]] I can't remember such eye contact at all. And if all of this is piled up – can you slow down your aggressive relationship up there?! – if this prevails that this is constantly being tried to throw a stone into the water again and again, and then again and again discuss a climate that worsens and worsens, I wonder: [[Deputies Rädler and Hornek: “Napalm-Wahlkampf!” (Napalm-Wahlkampf)]] What can be the goal of your side? [[Call the ÖVP: What is your goal?]] Let's make it quite clear: Do you want to stay in the provisional government any longer? Do you want to continue with this provisional budget? How's that going? – You have been responsible for years, Mr Bundeskanzler, and you feel responsible for this Republic – I am convinced – and we should try, while respecting Parliament’s rights – you are also a Member, you should be interested in the respect of Parliament! – to find a solution here anyway. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP, including:What do you want?]] [[Abg. Kainz: You have the government education order!]] Mr Lopatka has already returned to the speaker's desk with the Elan of a future campaign leader, as he seems to be planning another campaign in the near future. If he says there is a threesome coalition, after the Greens, the Blues and the Reds have said all day today, it is a punctual cooperation with this one investigation committee, when you enter the public here and say there is a threesome coalition, then I wonder : [[Abg. Rädler: Yes, “super ”!]] [[Hahaha Rufe and other calls to the ÖVP]] How serious is that? What do you want? Is that what you're gonna do with it? [[Abg. Rädler:... get out of the party!]] Is it more important to you in the final effect to prevent this investigation committee from forming a government? Is that what you're trying to do here? Is that responsible? [[Abg. Wöginger: You have to ask yourself this!]] I have to tell you, I don't think that's all right. The only thing that really pleased me is that the tasteless joke of Mr. Lopatka, who compared me to a vampire as a blood donor, was hardly able to hear applause even in the ÖVP. That was really three stores too deep. So we can't deal with each other and talk to each other: North Korea, South Korea, vampires as blood donors. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You have to imagine that once! You are lucky that this discussion will not be broadcast on television, because it will cost you another 5 percent – and rightly, I tell you, if you happen here in this way. Right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I'm saying something to you, from this speaker's desk, too: I have often been criticized by many representatives of the other parties that I am a secret Grand Coalitionary. - All right, now I'm out: I am really one, and I really want that there is this SPÖ/ÖVP government. [[Buh-Ruf near the greens.]] I think it's best in the final effect for this country. Please explain to us why you don't want to! Please explain to us why new elections are more important to you and are more correct from your point of view! Explain, please! [[Abg. Marek: You want new elections!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The Häupl!]] You are provoking these new elections from the ÖVP – today a large daily was right – and I would really ask you to think again before you go to the party board today before you may have another club session before you make another speech report, in which you deal aggressively with us! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The Häupl!]] Think again whether the path you have taken is the way that is really the best for the country, for Austria, for the inhabitants of this country! [[Abg. Marek: Did you talk to yourself now?]] Think about it! – Just to think, Federal Chancellor. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8908	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál, Dr Pilz and Mr Strache, and on Mr Eurofighter's exit. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: (on the fractions of SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ who agree to the request) photo, please! Photo!]] - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 1.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the resolution on the removal of educational miscarriage by free means from the cancellation of the Eurofighter contract. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[17:47:40]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8964	I take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e8982	We therefore come to the election of the Third President/third President. There is a proposal for an election on power. Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. Here, too, the electoral process is the same as before. I am now briefly interrupting the meeting in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9037	I'll start the interrupted session again. The preparations are over. I now ask the author, Mr Mag. Werner Kogler to start with the name call. But I have a request, Mr Kogler: Madam President Mag. Prammer will represent us to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I would therefore ask you to call her first, so that she can be the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9074	That concludes the vote. As in the previous elections, the officials of the House will now vote. I am going to interrupt the meeting for this purpose. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9112	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 181, of which: 152. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 77. Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek was in favour of 93 votes; 69 votes were taken by other Members. [[See actual outcome of the vote S......]] That is what Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek elected Third President of the National Council. [[General condolences.]] I ask the elect whether she accepts this choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9164	I'll take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9192	I congratulate the colleague on his election and may ask her to sit at the Bureau. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek takes place at the Bureau.]] [[18:38:05]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and the folders and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9222	We'll get to the 3rd. Agenda item. In accordance with an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I propose that this election be carried out under an elevation from the seats. Is there any objection to this procedure? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. We'll get to the choice. It is my proposal that Members Gabriele Binder-Maier, Marianne Hagenhofer and Rainer Wimmer of the Social Democrats and Jakob Auer and Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter from the ÖVP to writers and Deputies Gerhard Reheis, SPÖ, Ridi Steibl, ÖVP, Dieter Brosz, Grüne, Dr. Martin Graf, FPÖ, and Dipl.-Ing. Your Scheuch, BZÖ, to choose the folder or folders. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this election proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I assume that all the elect will take the choice. This is also the purpose of this agenda. [[18:39:03]] 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9348	We come to item 4 of the agenda. According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be determined by the decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the numbers of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election. 27 members were proposed by common accord for the main committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ Club 10 members, on the ÖVP Club 10 members, on the Green Club 3 members, on the FPÖ Club 3 members and on the BZÖ Club 1 member. On the basis of the lists I have received, the following Members have been elected: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Renate Csörgits, Dr. Caspar Einm, Hannes Fazekas, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Anton Heinzl, Dr. Elisabeth Hlavac, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Mag. Andreas Schieder ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Karl Donabauer, Dr. Werner Fassleven, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Wolfgang Großruck, Dr. Ferdinand Maier, Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Walter Murauer, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Michael Spindelegger ; from the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, Univ.-Prof. Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen ; from the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Barbara Rosenkranz, Mag. Ewald Stadler ; from BZÖ-Klub: Ing. Peter Westenthaler. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. [[18:41:17]] 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9593	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. I would like to begin with the following permanent committees: Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee and Budget Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in § 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the committee appointed to the President. These are considered to be chosen. After consulting at the Presidential Conference, a number of 17 members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Inconsistency Committee and the Immunity Committee, each of which is divided among the political groups: 6 members and replacement members for the SPÖ, 6 members and replacement members for the ÖDP, 2 members and substitute members for the Greens, 2 members and replacement members for the FPÖ, 1 member and replacement member for the BZÖ. A Committee size of 27 members and replacement members is proposed for the Budget Committee. These are distributed to the political groups as follows: 10 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ, 10 members and replacement members to the ÖVP, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, 3 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 1 member each and 1 replacement member to the BZÖ. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the committee size of the Inconsistency Committee and the Immunities Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for a committee size of 17 members and replacement members to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I shall now vote on the Committee size of the Committee on Budgets. Those ladies and gentlemen, who are for a committee size of 27 members and replacement members, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. The names of the members or substitutes notified by the clubs to the President and thus as elected Members of Parliament are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[See Annex p. 132.]] [[18:44:00]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9684	We shall now proceed to the 6th and the last item on the agenda. The Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and the Federal Council within the meaning of § 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948 consists of a total of 26 members who are elected by the National Council and the Federal Council each half. As regards the 13 members of the National Council, to which 13 replacement members are added, on the basis of an agreement in the presidential conference, 5 members are proposed by the SPÖ and the ÖVP each and 1 member by the Greens, the FPÖ and the BZÖ. I have the following constituency proposals: As members: from the SPÖ Club: Franz Kirchgatterer, Elmar Mayer, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Walter Schopf and Peter Duster ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Werner Amon, Jakob Auer, Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Edeltraud Lentsch and Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll ; from the Green Club: May. Bruno Rossmann; from the FPÖ Club: May. Ewald Stadler ; from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher. As replacement members: from the SPÖ Club: Wilhelm Haberzettl, Gerhard Köfer, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Ing. May. Hubert Kuzdas, Stefan Prehauser; from the ÖVP-Klub: Fritz Grillitsch, Christoph Kainz, Karlheinz Kopf, Johann Rädler, Barbara Riener ; from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler; from the FPÖ Club: Dr. Martin Graf; from BZÖ-Klub: Veit Sounde. You heard the proposals. Is there any objection to voting on the proposals? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, as I have called them, are in favour of the election of these Members, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This choice has also been made. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:46:00]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e9951	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Dr Cap, Dr Pilz, Mr Strache, Mr President, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. Since this request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament, it does not need to be read by the author. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10075	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'll give it to him. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10108	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the urgent question – I only take this as an example – Defence Minister Platter raised the first question: “By which person or by which group of persons was agreed by the Republic of Austria to the Eurofighter purchase contract...?” gave a simple answer: By a team! To the oral question who the members of this team had been, the Minister of Defense answered: Well, that was a team, and I told you earlier when answering a urgent request that I won't tell you more than it was a team. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] If the Austrian National Council is satisfied with this, this is its case. To date, until the constitution of this National Council, it has been a minority that has not been satisfied with it. Now, for the first time, it is a majority, and now there are opportunities for the first time to bring to the Minister of Defence that he not only says who the members of this team were, under his and other political leadership, the greatest damage to the Republic of Austria, but also that some other questions need to be answered. At this point I only call some in a loose sequence of time: Why did the Minister of Finance meet regularly in the time of the call for tender behind the Minister of Defence without informing them with representatives of Eurofighter GmbH and the company EADS? Was he responsible for the interests of the aviation industry or the fighter aircraft in the Austrian Federal Government – have we overlooked something in the business division? – or did he represent interests that were outside his professional and political responsibilities? What has happened about the type decision – and in this matter the former Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibner and his then leading officials in the ministry will certainly be very helpful to us – when a final type decision for the flu in the Ministry of Defence had already been made, which was finished and the ministry had decided: Eurofighter's gone!Unknown term type: "%s".? As was possible by intervention by the Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers on 25 May. In June 2002, the goal of imposing a different type of decision by non-residents and politicians with companies in the background was achieved? It was reached! She, colleague Scheibner, then Klubobmann and now Klubobmann – but now another party – Westenthaler and the then vice chancellor will be able to tell us and tell us how from dinner to the Heurigen, as it was told that the decision of the head of the Freedom Party was changed by the flu on Eurofighter for intervention. You will tell us where these meetings took place, what Westenthaler, what Riess-Passer, what Grasser has negotiated and then enforced in this connection with industrialists. And you will have to take the question: Who used it? – The Republic not, the security not and certainly not the Austrian federal budget! [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you tell us today that everything is transparent, I can tell you: The only thing that is transparent in this context is your intention to hide everything and prevent any enlightenment! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Blatter, as proof of transparency, you have stated that there have been 14 urgent questions, 19 requests for the setting up of a committee of inquiry and 31 written questions. But this is not proof of transparency, but a proof that you have used 14 urgent requests long, 19 requests for the establishment of a committee of inquiry long and 31 written requests for a long period of silence, error of the public and their plump of parliamentary majority in order to prevent inconsistencies. – That was during the last two legislative periods. Today we have tabled the first motion for a resolution and decided by a majority that the exit should begin. Today, we have presented the first request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry and have the great chance that the National Council will decide by a majority that a committee of inquiry will be set up on Eurofighter. – The times when you were able to determine the rules of the Austrian National Council are at least provisionally over. It will not only be a matter of tendering, but also of constantly changing the Eurofighter Treaty. It's going to be about make-up around the interim solution. It will be about some other contexts around the Treaties. But above all, there will be a big question, namely: Whose interests have defence ministers, finance ministers and Federal Chancellors represented? It was certainly not the interests of the national defence, because we were repeatedly reminded of this in the framework of the German military reform commission: If we want to finance the reform of the Austrian federal army, we cannot at the same time finance Eurofighter. Either – or! We cannot increase the military defence budget by 1 per cent at a time when we do not yet know how we will make legislation in the coming years on the leftovers of education, the research residues and the leftovers at the universities responsible for the current federal government. We need to invest there. We need every euro and every cent for investment in education, research, development and social security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we are asking for this request to give us the opportunity to prepare for a start of the contract, but also to take a political stand. It must be made clear in this Republic that such wastes with dubious political backgrounds and the strong suspicion that completely different interests than legitimate political and material interests have given the result are being taken into consideration in a parliamentary investigation committee. After all the experience we have gained with your information, Dr. Schüssel, and the information from your colleagues in the Federal Government here in the National Council, and the numerous attempts to mislead us and the public with half-truths and sometimes also with untruths, it is important that you and many others be consulted under the obligation of a committee of inquiry. It is bad enough that in a causa like the Causa Eurofighter we only have the guarantee to learn the truth from the members of the Federal Government and other stakeholders and interested parties when they are under the obligation of the criminal order. In cases of this kind, the Rules of Procedure of the Austrian National Council provide for the parliamentary committee of inquiry which works in accordance with the principles of criminal procedure. Now don't explain again, there is now a red-green-blue coalition. – There was a black and blue coalition that you have already forgotten again, with people from Ewald Stadler to Jörg Haider, who are trying to show us today. Yes, with these gentlemen, Dr. Schüssel, Mr Mag. Molterer, you have negotiated a government, you have agreed to a coalition, you have ruled for years. We have always said: Neither with the BZÖ nor with the Freedom Party can we imagine a government! But if it is necessary for democracy, we will be able to take the majority in this House for the control of misunderstandings in this Republic with concrete requests. The fact that majority voting is possible is not a reference to false coalitions and to a lack of principle that can be difficult for you in relation to the next few years, but to the possibilities of the National Council, at last – no longer at the nose ring of a government party – to carry out its duties in freedom and the public and in the sense of a controlling Parliament. They will have to take note of the fact that this Parliament is in control. They will have to take note that this National Council is fulfilling the rules of procedure. Dr. Schüssel, I am glad to see you again in the committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10169	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10190	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating the setting up of an investigation committee, and this is not about coalition negotiations; I would simply like to say this at the beginning of my speech. The establishment of a committee of inquiry is a democratic right of this House. This investigative committee, as you said yesterday, Mr Kukacka, was not a provocation, it is not bad, it is politically reasonable. The establishment of this committee of inquiry is our right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It has already been discussed very much and very often today that everything around the Eurofighters has to be kept secret and that the procurement process in this context is the well-informed process at all by the Court of Auditors. I found an interesting report about secrecy, namely: The Ministry of Defence and Eurofighter GmbH have refunded ad for mystery. And exactly this ad, ladies and gentlemen, was made on 27 July. September of this year has been abandoned, laid down, because the technical details are available on the Internet anyway and because the commercial part has such a large volume that it is in the interest of the public to make these things public as well. – So much for secrecy, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has indeed examined very intensively, but it has also left some issues open in its reports. There is, for example, the question of the Council of Ministers' presentation in 2002, Mr Scheibner, very much, with aircraft other than the Eurofighter. At that time you meant that there had been several designs for different projects, but only one decision. The Court of Auditors wanted to see these several drafts. He didn't get her, though. The act is – how do you say so beautiful? - Infringed. This is an interest in a committee of inquiry, which has been developed by other decision-making bodies! Then, in this context, the Court of Auditors also objected to the reduction of equipment from 24 to 18 pieces. You remember flood 2002? I don't want to let myself out of it anymore. However, I have not yet been told any flood victim that this measure would have had something to do with it. However, the Court of Auditors has also noted that no military considerations were based on a reduction in the number of units. So why should we not examine this too, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Scheibner: Then we buy 24! We've always been for it!]] I could now bring you – unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough – quotes from the Court of Auditors' reports, all confirming that although it has been examined, no answers have been found. For example, the Court of Auditors also says: ‘The annual operating expenditure calculated contained only part of the actual costs.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? Another statement by the Court of Auditors is: ‘Not least in view of the substantial changes in the commercial sector, the RH considered the procedure of the BMLV to be at high risk.’ “As at high risk” means that it is necessary here to ask a few more questions and to find clarifications. It also says: "The various steps taken in the negotiation of contracts should be clearly documented. This is all the more so when military contract content, commercial conditions and financing conditions are affected.” Yes, there were insufficient documentation, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a question of tribunals, it is not a question of criminalisation, it is a matter of simply creating a will for transparency and proving the legality of these processes. We know each other with the majority of Austrians. They too want transparency and openness, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10236	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10257	Madam President. High house! Government negotiations on the one hand, the first day of the newly elected National Council on the other – that would actually suggest focusing on the really important issues. What's the most important thing? – Obviously what is to be decided here today: first of all, a committee of inquiry – I am taking the second lead immediately – which concerns the economic location of Austria to a very large extent, namely, the investigation of banking operations in Central and Eastern Europe, in southern Europe. There is a minutely list of the banks to be disrupted in front of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Broukal: No, no!]] This ranges from BAWAG to other banks. Quite openly: We would have liked to find out a lot about this in a committee of inquiry, but we are not doing it for good reasons, because the BAWAG is being examined by courts and the BAWAG is now in a very delicate sales process. Among other things, it is also a question of preventing BAWAG's non-in-debt bridge by a good purchase price that will impact the tax payer's liability at €900 million. This is an important point that should not be ignored. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Raiffeisen International is also mentioned, in addition to a savings bank in Tyrol and the Hypo Alpe-Adria. In addition, the entire Telekom with its investments in southern Europe. I have calculated that this is about 70 000 jobs, which you are discussing with one hand. €50 billion in investments in recent years are being addressed in an investigation committee. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's incredible!]] Do you even know what you can do with such a measure, what you are buying with it? [[Abg. Oils: Financial Market Supervision!]] I say quite frankly to you: Think about it really well! “Simply to think” – by the way, a quote from Willi Molterer – Josef Cap used this in the last coalition session when we gave you the opportunity to think about whether this is a good way. Think about whether it makes sense and the most important issue at the beginning, on the day of one of this legislative period, to install two research committees on such issues! The second topic is the infinite history of airspace surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision goes back to 1998. That's where I'm a witness. At that time I agreed with Viktor Klima, the SPÖ chairman: Yeah, we're on the post-air traffic control plane. We knew that the Dragons don't last forever. He asked me to do this only after the election. I said gate. Yes, I trust that we will do it at the election! Check: In the text of the Government Agreement, which was not approved by the SPÖ Party Board, this post-purchase is still to be found in 2000, at the beginning of 2000. Only then – discs, plates and so on – did we address these things. The type decision is four and a half years old. Four and a half years old is the decision which aircraft is to be selected! [[Abg. Parnigoni: No!]] In between there were two national elections, ladies and gentlemen. And this is now the most important issue at the beginning of this new legislative period, which is now to be examined during ongoing negotiations?- Oh, my God! It is completely indifferent to you that, of course, the Republic's contractual fidelity is also at stake. No question: You can get out of any contract. You only have to have the courage to justify the costs. You will not be able to finance educational expenditure from the fees and new purchases, because new aircraft will also cost something. They may risk billions of counter-businesses. Don't say it's all air business! That's not serious. You know exactly which companies, which hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises are involved with deliveries. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a day of joy and commonness could have been – joy of young Members who have been newly elected to the National Council, commonness that one chooses the Bureau and also chooses some programmatic words. It is actually long moments of inconsistencies. I personally regret this, because after the election campaign, one should not deepen tombs, but shake tombs. You should not tear off bridges, but build bridges. You have it in your hands today with your decision. We will, of course, cooperate, no question. You have the right to use these two committees of inquiry. That's your good democratic right. But honestly, They have the power to decide whether it is really wise to set up a joint venture, to call the courts in the morning or to try the criminal laws. Ladies and gentlemen, you can choose a three-man majority against us: Gusenbauer, Strache, Van der Bellen is a majority. But honestly, Then you have it in your hand that you do not have us on this issue. You should consider that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10353	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10375	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel! Mr. Dr. Schüssel, I say this with some respect, because I have assured myself that we have often heard that you were the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, if you look back a little more often – and indeed critically – here in Parliament, if I may say so. You have now also used the right of initiative without being challenged to presuppose the next request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I'd like to replicate. They are committed to the same error as the BZÖ fraction. It is not a question of examining a single bank, it is a question of examining the classification of banking supervision, now the supervision of the financial market, whose introduction you are constantly boasting, but which is obviously at risk of failing systematically. By the way: There is nothing else we can look into as Parliament. I do not want to teach you there, but in the end we must not examine private banks; that is also a good thing. We are examining the financial market supervision that we have negotiated together. Now she threatens to fail. So it's good for the Austrian financial centre when we get it back. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Read application!]] Joy, and as a counterpart, sorrow. Look at this. You can understand for a lot. I don't want to agree at all on these awareness exercises or anything else – no. That may also be humanly permissible. Politics and politicians are also people. It's okay, too, if you don't hide it all the time, but according to the experience we've done, not just for the last four years, but for the last seven years – you weren't in the hall during the debate of the urgents – we've already talked a lot about the investigation committee – I have to say: I'm saying something personal. For example, I had to observe how the Court of Auditors systematically refused this control here and today, was directly suppressed – not by you personally, but – and you almost had this impression – by those sitting in your Party Secretariat and holding the Members here on the long band. - That's it! That's our impression. Now, if we actually do, the 19th. The request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry has been made here, but this is proof that the persistence of the opposition has paid off. And we got her. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bitch.]] It is all to be read in the APA, no one of us has kept it silent: New majority in Parliament will create this Committee of Inquiry. I don't know why you're crawling like that now. Why this should have anything to do with the government negotiations, you have to answer that yourself. It's obvious. Your understanding of parliamentarianism, that the Members here are only allowed to do what is previously spent on government negotiations and, as a result, on government banks as a parole. And that's what we've experienced in recent years. And if it should be different now, perhaps only for a short time – Mr Cap, I do not know – then at least it is a day of joy for so long, are the days of joy for the parliamentarians here. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] For this we have been elected, and not for honours of any majestys above me. Don't be mad at me! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who do you mean? Has the Madam President become a ‘ Majesty’?]] [[Call:Your President is upstairs]] You know I meant the chancellor's chair, but Dr. Schüssel got my recognition for changing the role. That's not what we're gonna do now. The subject of the Committee of Inquiry are certain operations. Mr Pilz has started: In fact, we have to advertise to the members of your group once again, because perhaps one or the other still comes to his own opinion and punishes me here. You can use this word here, I think. I'm being punished for lies. I hope so. Who were the decisive players in the crucial phase? It is nevertheless a malaise that, in order to get the Treaty, this Parliament depends on a committee of inquiry. That really bothers me. We need to examine as an investigative committee. It is then not the interpretation of the contractual letters that is in the foreground – there is this request for withdrawal from this procurement – but it is about the roles of the acting politicians, who may have been filled with private interests, with industrial interests. Why did the Minister of Finance – the word “Accounting Court Report” – not announce the payment option until the last few days? That's getting pretty criticized there. Why? – Because in the end, the payment variant alone gave the result for the type decision, nothing else! Always the competition products were ahead, only with a single payment variant of many it was at your highly famous Eurofighter evaluation commission. And just when this became known, the Minister of Finance, who at first rejected expensive war equipment, then wanted the cheapest solution—swupps, since he started, he came with the most expensive product. What were the interests? It's no wonder! It is not surprising that this Minister of Finance has intervened in this matter, but he has also been prevented by the industry. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] It is to be clear what interests have been pursued here and who have benefited them in the end. A committee of inquiry is here, even if you do not.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10488	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10510	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, I can no longer hear you instrumentalising the military defence of the country in order to beautify a type decision which has been subject to such a rumor from the very beginning and is still liable to this day, so that all possible malversations of an investigation can be avoided here. [[Abg. Steibl: The first time there and already...!]] Let me give you an example. It was only recently that an investigation was carried out in the Federal Army on the condition of the wheel vehicles. Of 125 vehicles examined, no one was available for traffic. They're all basically scraps. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with...?]] While you purchase the Ferrari, Mercedes or Rolls Royce in the airs and argue that you want to do good to the Federal Army, it is on the ground such that the vehicles are to an extent disastrous and our soldiers have to find out. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: And soldiers inside!]] I can't hear it anymore, as you want to show up as a savior at BAWAG. I remember very well at that time when the first painters in the field of BAWAG came to light when you and yours were full of oil, poured it into the fire, and in a very sensitive phase tried to dissuade this bank and break it, just because the ÖVP believed that it could achieve a small political advantage over the SPÖ. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a personal opinion, let me say very briefly that today a 21-head FPÖ fraction has been included in the National Council and that this 21-head FPÖ fraction will be the mark on the balance, whether or not there are two possible malversation cases in the past period. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] The attempt to destroy you with your orange majority creators at the FPÖ has gone backwards. And that's good for democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come directly from the Federal Council to the National Council. There's the thorny sleep, here's a little more lively. Shortly before the election, a special Eurofighter meeting took place there, there has been a joint request from the SPÖ, from the Greens and also from me to stop this procurement process. I went to the SPÖ at the time because I believed that the SPÖ would only organise a pre-election theatre and, in order to remove the prize of power the day after the election from its intention to apply for an investigative committee. I can tell you today that I am positively surprised that you have kept course. That's good. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The same applies to the Greens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the ranks of the SPÖ) Mr. Comrade! Sit down!]] – The Herr-1.8-percent Westenthaler laughs again. That's nice. You can only laugh about such a result. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to the Greens, who have shown not only high professionalism in the parliamentary negotiations, but also a high level of commitment, which I and many of us have not yet noticed by the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the case of the Eurofighter, this is not only a black and orange scandal, but there is also quite – and I do not save you from the SPÖ – some red husks. Who is the biggest profiter in the counter-businesses? Let's make a little guess! The ÖVP has certainly done this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Androsch!]] Bingo! It is Hannes Androsch, who has received a 400 million € counter-business volume with his FACC. Let's get these counter-businesses through once! We have heard from the Federal Chancellor that there will be a 200 percent counter-business volume. That's a great business. It was also said that the taxpayer would not have to pay for it at all, because an economic platform would be founded and that the Eurofighter would be financed by itself. [[Abg. Strache: The Consortium!]] We remain in the 200 percent of counter-businesses, because the economic platform does not exist to this day! So I can only say if I were a merchant and buy something and get a 200 percent counter-business volume from the seller, then I would be a rich man within a short time. If you follow your 200 percent argument, I ask: Why don't we buy 100, 500 or 1,000 of these Eurofighters, and in the very shortest time – your way of thinking – renovate social affairs, health care and have enough planning facilities for the police? For the simple reason, because these counter-actions do not exist to the extent! [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] For good reason, one speaks in counter-businesses of voodoo business. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've been surprised a little bit about the short time. I'll come to the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10664	The final sentence, Mr Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10679	If you have nothing to hide and hide, you agree! It would be a good start to a new period if you could investigate things that have been controlling the headlines with painting and rumors for four years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is, however, a long conclusion, Madam President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10717	As the last speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10738	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before the counter-businesses, which have often been the subject of this discussion. Mr Strache called for the list to be made public, Mr Vilimsky told us that 500 planes would probably be able to do 30 times as many business as at 15, or so much. I have to tell you the truth: I have actually missed from my colleagues from the ÖVP that one would have said clearly what these counter-businesses look like, because we should be honest: If you were in business yourself – you can't claim it – you would work outside yourself and give people work, a company or a company, then you would think about what you really want! – You want a list to be hung on a black board, on which stands how many counter-businesses which company has made. Have you ever thought that this might be unpleasant for the company if you were to publicly explain how much business it does? [[Call the FPÖ:Why?]] - Why? – Well, I expected the question! Thank you, Mrs. Rosary! [[Abg. Strache: There's a barge four times!]] Why? You know why? – Because on the day of publication, probably the SPÖ, the Greens and the FPÖ would bring all these companies into some sort of mischievous circle of cross-financing, from party gifts and anything else! I'm going to tell you something honestly: I met some companies in the course of the election campaign, which clearly positive...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10809	Please calm down!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10825	Mr. Ollinger, your excitement is understandable: You'll probably never be out with the people! But make business visits once, be out on your way! There you will meet many companies that are happy about the good economy and also about the fact that there are counter-businesses in the course of this Eurofighter purchase, because simply new people get jobs and they can live and feed families. [[Abg. Oillinger: The company Rumpold!]] – They would endanger you with your agitation! [[Intervocations with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] Mr Graf, you can unseal a handkerchief, you can cry for yourself, that's all! [[The speaker points to Abg. Dr. Graf, cleaning his glasses with a handkerchief]] I consider it problematic and would feel it very critical if one were to represent publicly which companies with which shops would benefit exactly how much of this Eurofighter compensation story. As I said before: As such, I would not question the committee of inquiry. - I wouldn't do that. I will also take this decision, which will be democratically adopted, clearly into account. That's all right, too. – This is a democratic right – we have discussed this before – and we must take note of that. That should be the same. I would just ask you not to instrumentalise this investigative committee to make party-political agitation! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is guaranteed, Mr. Scheuch! We guarantee that!]] Special to you, Dr. Gusenbauer: You should go out to the people now! I'm just on my way to another election campaign, because we've got agricultural chamber elections. Go out and talk to the people! People expect a parliament that is able to work. People expect a government that is able to work. People don't expect Mr. Cap to stand out here and discuss what tractor the sheep buys. – People outside don’t care what tractor I buy, Mr. Cap! People don't care! [[Abg. Kurt Eder: He doesn't even understand an example!]] People want a workable government! People don't care so much about whether the red-black, black-red or – as now in the new alliance – red-green-blue. People expect that due to this result from the 1st century. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – This also applies to you, my dear colleague Parnigoni! People have a right to get a government, and if we now have to find at the end of this debate and at the end of this plenary session whether or not we are setting up an investigation committee, then I can only repeat the same thing as before. [[Calls for Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! – Also for you, my colleague Brosz: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You have the majority in this house! You have it in your hand: Make your government, close your alliance, find a clear majority! This majority is with you all! Keep your election promise: Close and order together Get rid of these Eurofighters! This is the subject of the table, so it is done, and Mr Gaál of the SPÖ and other representatives of the Defence Committee can then deal with what aircraft are to be purchased. The majority of the government is with you! You can clean up what seems to have been done wrong several years ago! – I’m just looking forward to whether this will ever happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10924	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Cap's request, Mr Pilz, Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this by a clear sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ and of representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:An interesting majority!]] [[19:26:28]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e10968	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigative committee to further examine political and legal responsibility in connection with the BAWAG scandal. Since this request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament, it does not need to be read by the author. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11147	We are now going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time as in the previous debate 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Westenthaler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11177	Madam President-in-Office of the Council. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's already very interesting what's happening here all day! I have written a lot of arguments which I could now quote to you, which count equally for the setting up of the committee of inquiry which we are requesting here today: too little audit of the Court of Auditors, even the control function here in Parliament, the taxpayers' money, or - as Kogler said earlier -: Who were the decisive players in the decisive phases? – This applies to the BAWAG scandal much more! This is already a huge difference in the discussion about the previous committee of inquiry, because this is now about amounts of destroyed money which, to their extent, actually ridiculed any description: 3 billion € have been lowered in the Caribbean, the union union is facing the ruin. [[Call the SPÖ:Riess-passer! Gucci!]] The situation to be investigated is not about the economic and banking location of Austria, but about a special and specific scandal – the BAWAG scandal in the red area – that we want to clarify, because it is not comparable! It is – also in the dimension – a unique scandal, which is hardly comparable to any other one in the Second Republic. But two more sentences on my previous speaker, Mr. Secretary-General of the FPÖ. – I would like to ask him a few more questions, namely: Mr. Comrade Vilimsky! For the show you had here today, for the praise of the comrades you will probably become first candidates on the Viktor Adler board. - It's yours today. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] That's incredible! Mr. Strache, you're so pretty wide in front of me. I'm really wondering: What have they actually commanded you to do on the first day of Parliament on this red cristle trail and apparently want a left coalition in this House and make it possible for you to subdue yourself with skin and hair red and green and now, after the request, still beautifully applause? – This is really an interesting thing! [[Abg. Strache: We have opposition to you!]] [[Abg. Strache: We are an opposition party, which is ultimately also subject to control! A control and opposition party! We'll cover up and control!]] Does the daily servant in front of red-green you do not actually hurt? - Well, I really have to say: I'm unscrupulous! Mr Strache, you must explain this to your voters from FPÖ first that you already sold these voters shortly after the election and now support red-green here in this House! [[Abg. Strache: That we will have a committee of inquiry so soon after the election!]] You will have to explain this to the voters first! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The situation is now quite clear! It's obvious what's happening there. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're the candidate for the Heide-Schmidt board!]] Mr. Häupl left the cat out of the bag: He has announced today that there will be new elections if one does not bow to the SPÖ dictatorship here in the House. - That's the situation! I say it quite openly as it is: The SPÖ wants to break new elections from the fence at all costs! They want to achieve new elections, to ultimately drive this country into new elections, which are expensive, which nobody wants and which, above all, the voters do not want, because we have first elected. You obviously want to choose as many times as possible until the result comes out that you wish. But overconfidence rarely does good, and the voters will do you a stroke by the bill! I can tell you today that you will not succeed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where you're talking in the wrong direction!]] To your scandals: Their scandals and bank arguments have a long tradition. This starts in 1981 with the Landesbank: € 218 million in state aid to the then – listen well! – National bank director Franz Vrannitzky – 218 million €! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A terrifying speech!]] Bank Burgenland: € 461 million in damage; BA-CA sales to HVB: € 1.2 billion in capital destruction; Nationalized industry: the ÖIAG opened us in 1999 when we came to the government with €6.3 billion in debt; or the "consumer" insolvency in 1995: 1.9 billion € in debt, 5,000 jobs were also gone. In addition, the “worker’s newspaper”, the AMAG, the DDSG. – This could still be calculated together, and at the end – including the BAWAG scandal with 3 billion – one comes to the incredible amount of social-democratic economic policy damage of €12 billion or 80 000 jobs that you destroyed when you bore economic responsibility. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] That screams for clarification! [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Such a nonsense!]] That is why we have tabled this request for the establishment of a BAWAG study committee, in which we are very likely to have reviewed the responsibility of various bodies. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] €3 billion in the Caribbean is reduced, the ÖGB has now announced a debt of €2.14 billion – a loss of 108 million in 2005 alone, and the BAWAG has not yet been present. That was the loss that was managed there. Now the taxpayer comes into play, and that's very important. Yes, Mr Gaál! Unfortunately, he's not here anymore. He said the taxpayer had the right to know what was happening to his money. There is this €900 million state liability, which has now been expressed. That is why we have the right to bring light into the darkness of this BAWAG story in this particular, largest scandal of the Second Republic. I am already very excited whether you will vote in this committee of inquiry today or whether you will speak out again, as you would like to do, according to the motto: There are other fields that can be seen too! [[Abg. That's where we are for a committee at once! All of a sudden, we are in favour of a committee of inquiry!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] There you always count up any other banks and pick up some nebulous accusations – but you don't want to control the scandal in your own ranks, which you want to push to the side. That is why we say: It is necessary to use this investigation committee in the sense of taxpayers, in the sense of information, and also in the sense of the BAWAG staff. We suddenly hear – all of course after the election – that 400 – at least 400! – jobs are reduced at BAWAG. So there's a massive job reduction at the door, and you obviously don't want to explain it and talk about any other stories. Therefore, we want an exact examination of what was done with these losses, how they were hidden, who knew when and who was informed when. No one believes that the former President of the ÖGB, Mr Vergestnich, was the only one who knew everything! Who knew everything from the SPÖ peaks of these losses, which were not built for a year or two years, but for ten years and which ultimately opened up in this dimension? Of course, we also want to check: How did bank supervision work in the 1990s when there was a first National Bank Report in 1995 which remained essentially ineffective? Already at that time, attention has been paid to the fact that there has been a truly surprising speculation, namely, the first Caribbean business. You've been announced there's a follow-up report. They said they're going to check it out. He never came! From 1995 onwards, the Minister of Social-Democratic Finance and so many leaders in the National Bank simply delayed them, so that he did not come. That is why we also need to carefully review this banking supervision and see what is behind it, and also the financial market supervision, including the economic police, where there is a sounding name, namely Comrade Horngacher, who is still involved in other stories and who was at the time also chief of the economic police. – You have to look closely at that! Another important point of review is how the judicial authorities have worked, how judicial authorities have repeatedly responded to advertisements, as it was possible, for example, that entire files – from the indictment to secret documents – have always found their way into the media directly from the prosecutor authorities. – This should also be worth an examination, until the employees of the Ministry of Justice have also had an influence on the prosecutor's office – the prosecutor's office. The fact that we want to control party funding naturally stands in the room. The Causa Vranitzky is yes, if she were not ridiculous, almost sad: 1 million € he has received for advice, for that he will advise Mr. Flöttl – the investment banker Flöttl! – the euro changeover has explained. That's great! This is true, Mr Cap, just as if you were going to support Mr Ronaldo in the football game, would explain to him how he is doing, and would disburse a million for that! - That would be exactly the same. No one believes that. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr Cap believes a lot, but not everything!]] There are still 17 million euros missing from foundations. Mr Flöttl paid it in foundations, but they haven't shown up to this day. 17 million € are just gone. In other words, there is a great deal of clarification here, right up to your accounts, how funds have also been transferred to the Socialist trade unionists' group, to the ÖGB. – All of this is the subject of the Enlightenment! This is the point which now makes us think differently than perhaps in the weeks before. The prosecutor's office has spoken. It has filed charges against major managers in the SPÖ environment. The charges are in place. There will be a procedure, and now it is time to clarify political responsibility. That is why we have tabled this request in good time today. In none of the other cases you want to investigate, there are charges, there are judicial proceedings or similar. It's just a political accusation! In the case of the BAWAG, however, material is really on the table that there is to be examined. That is why we say: How high your credibility is, we will see today in the vote. If you are so important to control and test in this House, then you have nothing to hide, as you have said today. I would then recommend, Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Cap: Give it up and vote in favour of this request, so that we can finally bring in a committee of inquiry on this largest scandal in the Second Republic! Then we will see if all the arguments you used all day for an investigation committee in the other Causa are still valid now at 7.38 p.m.!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11417	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. Speaking time: 5 minutes. This also applies to all other speakers. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11438	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ing. Westenthaler! Well, I'm easy to do on the question: You've been to the group where, I think, millions have been consumed for Gucci bags and others. You should perhaps see this with the fees differently in this regard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Watch what you say!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't threaten!]] But let's get to the main topic: The Federal Chancellor referred to both committees of inquiry earlier. [[Call the SPÖ:No bodyguards!]] – His beatings and other things are done today, I think. We don't need to discuss these today. Let's stay with what's on the table. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – I'll be right there, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler! You write here in a request that the Social Democrats have to answer, and then a long Serbian comes. Then write However, you only have three points that you want to examine, namely the conduct of the Ministry of Finance and the supervision, the examination of the behaviour of the economic police, the examination of the conduct of the prosecutors and the assessment of the prosecutors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You forgot about party financing!]] These points may be reviewed by a committee of inquiry. The fourth point is not a matter of execution. It is an interesting view that you represent here. I notice: There is a second request – without debate afterwards – and in this request all these points are included in the BZÖ proposal, but – and now I come to what the Federal Chancellor has previously perceived as an attack or has felt other speakers as a tribunal: Faith You're serious that for us the question is funny how the connections of the Causa BAWAG were? We have already discussed this together – at least some of the Members present here in the BAWAG Court Subcommittee – with it. We have asked for clarity and transparency from the very beginning, complete clarification of why all the safeguards have been burned through, why the internal revision – now I am at the BAWAG – has all failed about the bank auditors and a report on this in 2001 on supervision – on behalf of the Federal Minister for Finance! – was presented, which simply disappears and is maintained in the fundamental failure of the internal revision of the BAWAG. Ladies and gentlemen, whether it's pleasant or unpleasant: That's an investigation! Now, of course, this goes smoothly – and now I come to the other points – into a series of the failure of supervision: AMIS, for example – there is always evidence that people have relied on financial market supervision, which are thousands of injured, a total of 16 000 who have lost 1 billion schillings, which they then put in good faith at AMIS, and an FMA that has remained inactive. Let's take Hypo Alpe-Adria: For the first time in history – Mr. Ingenieur, because you always highlight the orange state of Carinthia – an Austrian bank that has submitted a wrong financial statements had to be removed from the testat. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's all not true!]] The balance sheet forgery has now been admitted by submitting an amended 2004 financial statements. And we have an FMA that has not reviewed the essential operations of this bank in the Balkans. However, we cannot examine the banks in the Committee of Inquiry – which Mr Kogler has already made clear – but we can only examine why supervision has not worked. And that's exactly what we're going to do together! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Take a look at your own doorstep! That's where you need a big broom!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, as it was meant in relation to question 12, here someone wants to investigate Raiffeisen: not at all! You don't need to tell me, I know what it means to have a trust relationship. It is difficult enough for every economic fidelity, for each bank, because you appear outside instead of the trustee and must be sure that the person is okay. But that means that all our banks – and even stronger, when we are in the Eastern expansion phase – must be able to rely on the information provided by the economic police, on the services there, on information from the FMA. You have to be sure if they take over a business today that they will not come into the smell tomorrow to be connected to someone or even to act on his behalf, which may be sought by arrest warrant or run against the investigations. And in order to protect these institutions, we must investigate the failure in this area, because there has been a problem in many cases. Let's take the second part, Bulgaria. Everyone tells us, and we hear that from the Lord Taus, the MobileTel has not heard him at all. Yeah, please, who heard this company? She didn't hear the other Taus partners either, I heard. Yeah, who did she hear? And we read in the paper that Mr. Elsner was able to order a confirmation of convenience at the economic police, which says: No problem, you can buy from the owner! [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we need to investigate. I invite the ÖVP to come down emotionally a little. Do you seriously want to leave the Republic in a state where every year a new scandal comes to light in the banking sector? I'm not, and I hope you're not either. Do you want to leave a country in a state where something is thought to be behind procurement procedures, which may not be true at all? Quite honestly, both committees of inquiry, when we deal with them in a serious way, are a contribution to decommissioning, and we can help them together to reform the supervision and reform what does not work in the public prosecutor's office. I would remind you that we have put forward a very good proposal: the establishment of a non-binding state attorney. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk time!]] We have the opportunity to determine who has been active in these matters from the political level, the administration, and we will discover this responsibility in these committees of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is unpleasant to you now... [[Call ÖVP and BZÖ:Ready time!]] I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11563	Mr Matznetter, I would just like to interrupt you. The clock was set incorrectly. Your speaking time of 5 minutes has already expired. I can ask you to say one more final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11581	I unemotively ask you: Follow us on the way towards transparency and enlightenment! This will be good for the ÖVP. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[19:44]] [[19:44:27]] Proclaiming the actual outcome of the third President's election
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11614	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following correction: In the counting of votes for the election of the Third President of the National Council, 93 votes for Mrs Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek were mistakenly counted. – In fact, it was subsequently found that 83 votes were on Mrs. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczekt. This error, however, has no influence on the outcome of the election. The order is half-way, and I shall make it known to you for the official minutes. [[Votes cast at the election of the Third President: 181; valid: 152; invalid 29.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 83 votes.]] [[The remaining votes were for Members: Bucher: 1, Mag. Dr. Fekter: 3, Dr. Grünewald: 1, Haidlmayr: 1, Mag. Kogler: 2, Mag. Lunacek: 1, Mandak: 1, Dr. Gabriela Moser: 8, Oillinger: 4, Dr. Pilz: 5, Dr. Rada: 1, Rosary: 20, Sburny: 2, Mag. Stoisits: 13, Dr. Van der Bellen: 4, Mag. Weinzinger: 2.]] Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Molterer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11680	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Madam President. Completely unemotive, Mr. Dr. Matznetter, I tell you and Dr. Gusenbauer, Mr. Dr. Cap, Mr. Van der Bellen, Mr. Strache, there is a film, I think he has been filmed in the 1960s, titled: “For they do not know what they are doing.” [[Call:James Dean]] James Dean, that's right! I would just like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the consequences of your actions so that you can know what you are doing. They are going out here and say that it is actually totally irrelevant what we decide with the Committee of Inquiry, namely the next one on the agenda, that would have no consequence anyway. I'll read something to you, Dr. Gusenbauer, so you know what you're doing. With astonishment and surprise, we had to learn that as the fifth and last of these events, lapidar is cited: Insolvency risk at Tiroler Sparkasse. On behalf of the Tiroler Sparkassen Aktiengesellschaft Innsbruck, we reject this claim to the very strictest, it is incorrect and deprived of any basis. Such a statement in an audit order by the Austrian legislator is appropriate to cause serious damage to our home's reputation and credit. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We would therefore ask you, at the appropriate meeting of the National Council and in contact with the relevant club members of the groups supporting the request, to ensure that the reputation of our existing house for 184 years is not intentionally damaged. On behalf of 550 employees I remain... - Quote. “They don’t know what they are doing,” Dr. Gusenbauer said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Van der Bellen – he's not here anymore – Mr. Strache! I read to you something second from someone who, like the Tyrolean Sparkasse, has an absolutely high reputation, namely from the Raiffeisen Central Bank. She says: First of all: We have so far been available to each representative for information. Walter Rothensteiner writes that, interestingly, none of the Members who have submitted the request to set up an investigation committee has sent them a request for information. That means you didn't even ask! But you decide on the investigation committee so that you can politically scandalize. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] I'll tell you what's left here. “For they do not know what they are doing,” said Van der Bellen. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Listen to me so that you know what you're doing, Mr. Wirtschaftsprofessor: Furthermore, the question arises – writes Rothensteiner: The now flat-rated East transactions are a backbone of the Austrian economy. This is something that only extremely short-sighted politicians want to question. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Maybe you should buy the cap a glasses!]] And then on: It is not only about the RZB – and so on – as private banks, but also about more than 50,000 Austrian retail investors. The politicians involved in the investigation committee must already be asked whether they wish to harm these Austrian investors with this action. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, of course!]] Rothensteiner continues to write – so you know what you are doing! –: More regrettably, Austria's economic location as a globally recognized and highly successful domestic workplace-building and secure hub for East-West business is miscredited by flat-rate, undifferentiated, domestically motivated sham caps. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] There is nothing to add to this – “For they do not know what you are doing. ” [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] Now you can't say you didn't know what to do with your policy. Just as you risk the security of this country, if you are party-politically right, you risk jobs and the economic location. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you even go so far as to bring the social partners into discredit in your own committee of inquiry. So far you've brought it! Good luck, I tell you, on this path, Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Strache. You have the responsibility for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11789	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11811	Madam President. Mr. Klubobmann! I don't know if we're going to have to try the Cineast lovers right now, I just think: I don't know what movie you were in! Probably in the wrong! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] In any case: I can't follow your argument. You did not address the questions, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, because you were concerned about a particular circumstance, but you did not come to the heart of the committee of inquiry, but this does not surprise me if you think that Westenthaler and Scheibner are dancing from my point of view – apologise, Madam President – on the margins of admissibility. And what the reason of the ing. As far as Westenthaler is concerned, one has to get the impression once again, as if it was not about executive action at all, but it is important for us to review it – something else is not allowed – but about the BAWAG itself. Yes, of course this is also about the BAWAG scandal... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] - Let's stay with you now! – We are also concerned with the Hypo Alpe-Adria as well as with other financial services. I obviously have to deal with the question of Raiffeisen Group in a short time. But the focus is on the functioning or the operation – it says nobody works at all – of financial market supervision respectfully of banking supervision of the Ministry of Finance, which is the competent ministry for this whole matter. Even if we are now reminded in a strange way that this Federal Minister for Finance still exists: There was still more to the Federal Minister for Finance Grasser at that time. At the time he was still with the Blues, then partyless, but was so to speak put into play by the Blacks again and again. Whether Grasser would have become an oranger, I don't know, only one thing I know: under Grasser's responsibility there has been a massive failure even in these listed cases. And you'll still be allowed to investigate that! But this is not just about the Minister of Finance and not – this is a more complicated request than the other; I admit that – about the bashing of the Minister. It is about the fact that Grasser himself has always praised how he would have converted an already well-functioning banking supervision into an even better financial market supervision. Recently, we still had to listen to praises about it. Yes, banking supervision works – but not the way it should work. As regards the BAWAG: It is perfectly clear that this is a tragic scandal for the trade union movement and is a scandal to be held with it, at least from the trade union leaders. That's not a question at all. Even if it is “excess” about a selection debt: This is one of the worst political indebtedness ever! No question: Who puts an elsner there and lets him grant it for so long – a bad thing! However, it turned out – and how could it be different, I say, as an Austrian learnt, that these BAWAG scandals came from the nineties, from a time when there was also a great coalition. – I don’t want to discourage you, but it would have just surprised you if it had stayed there. What was there? In the meantime, Mr President Khol has been on my side and has said in this context that Josef Taus is guilty of the election of the ÖVP; you have to judge that yourself. The fact is that an ex-Parteiobmann of the ÖVP was heavily involved in the business conduct of BAWAG, not only in the Caribbean business. However, we have not taken action to claim that BAWAG scandal is exclusively the name of Caribbean business and nothing else. If the critical audit reports of the central bank give this result, audit reports, which the concerned Finance Minister has then shoved, at least his officials have handled this, and if at this time this MobileTel deal has been handled in Bulgaria, where the BAWAG has carried every risk and others have been employed with zero risk, but have certainly made the greatest profit of their lives, then one must already point out: These gentlemen are called Taus, Sleep and Cordt – so not very unknown names. If you want to clear this up and then you put up the walls: In this respect, I even have some understanding of this if you do not want to agree to this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I am just saying that it is about financial market supervision, it is about the BAWAG – which, in my view, is also involved in the EIA – and it is about further investigating circumstances up to the financial service providers.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11881	Your speaking time is over. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Please agree, that has failed!]] [[In the case of the Greens, please welcome the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e11919	Madam President. High house! It is actually shocking that the clubman of a Christian-social party must try the cineastics of the 1960s as well as James Dean to assign the quote “For they do not know what they are doing” properly! – I tell you about the ÖVP now – you may have slept in your catechism teaching – that this quote is 2000 years old and can be read in the Bible. This comes from the Passion of Jesus Christ, if you may remember that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can only say that you are barking in front of your own or your own voters! – If you've slept the catechism teaching, you can get one of those from me. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The proposal that is being tried today to bring light into the dark of this entire bank filter is the one carried by our group – and not your request, Mr Ingenieur. [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] Your request is very one-sided, it should only be the return ball for the committee of inquiry on Eurofighter! - That's too little! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 3 billion!]] In any case, we take note of the following: Reasonably, the SPÖ has recognized that it has to clarify things in its own field. And this is good; you should do it. We already had to do such things from the FPÖ, and I believe that there will be a lot to learn about in the area of oranges. You will also learn what it means to clean up your own past in your own party environment! That's still coming. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] If, however, you, Mr Ingenieur, are so much to have the BAWAG thing clarified to you, then tell your wife Minister of Justice that she should make a request for legal assistance to the Principality of Liechtenstein – I know that the Minister of Justice does not like you at all, but she still belongs somehow to your government, who makes you the wall of the Oranges – that the Minister of Justice in the Principality of Liechtenstein should ask who is the Nehmer's interrelationship, those 60, 70 private institutions, associations and private individuals who have been served by Mr Flötttl with millions of amounts. [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not my Minister of Justice!]] Why does the court file charges, but does not want to know who the cashiers are in Liechtenstein?- Oh, my God! Whoever is the payer, we know that in the meantime. But we are also interested in who the Nehmers were to be able to discover this whole relationship! Why does the Minister of Justice not do this? In Liechtenstein a new law was adopted a few years ago to allow other countries to obtain such information in the form of formal requests for legal assistance. I know from similar cases in Liechtenstein that such information is very well provided. Why does the Minister of Justice not do this? Why does justice not want to know, in particular, does the Federal Minister not want to know who the Nehmers were in all this Flettl-Fétat? I know, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole, especially at BAWAG, was tolerated by financial market supervision – at that time banking supervision – and also by the Ministry of Justice, according to the motto: We do not touch banks, there are jobs in danger, we do not want to explain anything! That's what we heard. Thanks to this attitude, they were able to rely on them for so long that nothing happens to them! The whole thing has actually begun with the Atomic bankruptcy. Mr Elsner has shown how he can assert his political influence when he tried to put pressure on the then Minister of the Interior Schlögl in order to stop the investigations. However, Federal Minister Karl Schlögl did not let himself be put under pressure, but at one time he became – what a wonder! – in the Upper State Procuratorate Linz, the order that, until further instructions come, no longer be determined. This instruction was given to the head of the Landesgendarmeriekommando Salzburg, the discoverer of the “Lucona” scandal, Mr Werner Mayer – and there never again came another direction. So the whole thing fell asleep, and Flöttl could rely on him to continue looting Atomic. A willfully led bankruptcy! There was no problem, not even in the black sector, that hundreds of jobs were destroyed there, that a flagship of the Austrian industry had been beaten up by a Finnish group, that the insolvency fund had to pay the wages, so to speak, and that the taxpayers had to do so – no one had a problem, even over there. [[towards ÖVP]] And that's how the whole wreath got started, because you've seen it works. Ladies and gentlemen! The last efforts were made by the Federal Minister Böhmdorfer. He commissioned Mr. Principal Michael Passer to determine the amount of the damage at Atomic. 4 billion came out! As a result, Mr Böhmdorfer offered Mr Rohrmoser 4 million ATS. Of course, he has not accepted this; he has said he cannot be eaten with a bet. But that was the beginning of the way in the Austrian banking landscape it was possible to destroy companies to deal with any speculation business. I am not afraid at all of all of these letters from the banks; they do not frighten us. For I have seen how Mr Böhmdorfer has taken the agendas for consumer protection, how the banks have influence in the field of ÖVP, how they can order policy in this country. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12033	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Also: 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12069	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have taken the oath to the Constitution, and I propose to every Member of this House that he also means well to the country, that he means it well with the population in our country and that he also bears a minimum of responsibility, which is his function here in this House. If anyone has a responsibility, then he should also consider what applications he makes, what he writes in these applications and whether that is right, what he supports here and where he agrees. If I look at the requests made by SPÖ, Greens and Liberals, we will meet at the BAWAG. We meet at BAWAG, the BAWAG is a criminal case, the largest criminal case of the Second Republic. It would even appeal to the ÖVP to agree – the Federal Chancellor has already said it – and perhaps the itching is so great that it will lead to the raising of the poor. But, in reality, you also mix the business divisions in other banks with this topic when you write into the application that the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria must be freed from misunderstandings, that the Tyrolean Sparkasse suffers from abuses and that there are also abuses at Raiffeisen Investment AG that you want to show. Mr Grün, Grilz, Pilz said that he was concerned about the FMA that it was not about the companies and the financial institutions that failed in one business case or another. If you really are concerned with financial market supervision in our country, you would have the opportunity at any time to send a request to the Minister of Finance. You will get information about the country's financial institutions – no problem at all! [[Abg. Brosz:... is not Kogler!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You do not have to set up an investigation committee to discredit successful credit institutions in our country. This is not necessary, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For the record: Two men clap!]] If you want to study the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank together with BAWAG, you need to be aware of the way you are going: that you are thereby bringing the most successful credit company in the Second Republic into discredit, which since 1990, when 200 employees were working there, has increased the workforce to 5,300 people today. I appeal to all Members from Carinthia to make sure that they take the step they are taking to bring a successful credit institution into discredit with such a step, to tear it in front of the committee of inquiry, one that was as successful as no other comparable company in the South-East European region and which has produced a sensational corporate result in recent years, i.e. an average of 35 percent increase in the balance sheet results in recent years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mrs Trunk!]] [[Further call-ins]] This, of course, is a thorn in the eyes of many credit institutions, no question at all! But don't get the competition on the glue by mixing the banks and putting them in front of the investigation committee. That doesn't solve the problems! This creates uncertainty in the Austrian capital market, in the financial market that we have labored to build, and which we have renovated. They have laid the foundations of national law and destroyed 55 000 jobs. [[towards SPÖ]] We have made a successful ÖIAG policy, and the Vienna Stock Exchange, Vienna Stock Exchange, is there today as never before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: With the police...!]] All these are important measures that have been taken by this Federal Government and which we do not want to endanger. Therefore, we are in favour of an investigation committee on BAWAG and are determined to put other credit institutions that are successful in putting into play.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12173	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:06:09]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12209	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Kogler, Dr. Herb, Strache, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigative committee on financial market supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, reading by the author does not need to be done. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12386	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Kogler, Dr. Herb, Strache, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, so this request is accepted. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[20:07:00]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12429	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the official minutes relating to item 4 concerning the election of the main committee so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: “The desire lies according to § 51 para. 6 LEG, the proposed version of the Official Protocol of the 1. Read the meeting of the National Council on Agenda item 4 concerning the election of the main committee: TO point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the main committee shall be fixed unanimously by 27. (Then the SPÖ club has 10 members, the ÖVP club 10 members, the Green Club 3 members, the FPÖ club 3 members and the BZÖ club 1 member.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Renate Csörgits, Dr. Caspar Einm, Hannes Fazekas, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Anton Heinzl, Dr. Elisabeth Hlavac, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Mag. Andreas Schieder. From the ÖVP Club: Karl Donabauer, Dr. Werner Fassleven, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Wolfgang Großruck, Dr. Ferdinand Maier, Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Walter Murauer, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Michael Spindelegger. From the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. From the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Barbara Rosenkranz, Mag. Ewald Stadler. From BZÖ-Klub: Ing. Peter Westenthaler.” Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[20:09:08]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-10-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e12573	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 1/A to 18/A have been tabled. Questions 1/J to 21/J have also been raised. Before I close this meeting, I announce that the main committee will hold a constitutional first meeting after the end of this meeting in local VI. Following the meeting of the main committee, the Standing Subcommittee of the Main Committee shall also be set up in local VI. Ladies and gentlemen! For 6 p.m., the President of the Federal Republic had invited him to a reception. The duration of the meeting meant that we could not participate in it. The President of the Federal Republic expressly asks me to send all his best greetings to you. The sitting is closed.
