ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4107	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 133 and 134. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In December 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Broukal, Dobnigg, Oberhaidinger, Mag. Posch, Scharer, Silhavy, Rossmann, Wittauer and Mag. Lunacek. [[09:01:16]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4141	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Disability policy: Equal rights for all people with special needs’ The first is Mr Magistrate. Mainly reported. His speaking time is 10 minutes. – I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4174	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the screens at home! It's a strange day for me today: ==References== Since I was fishing in Parliament, I have been here as a Member of Parliament for my last speech on this speaker's desk and will then be working as a disabled lawyer for disabled people in Austria. I have experienced highlights of disability policy in these 20 years – if I can recall, for example, the year 1993 and the then Social Minister Hesoun, who introduced the care allowance – but I have also experienced hours of deep disappointment. It is not God-worshiped, ladies and gentlemen, that last year the Austrian Parliament passed the Handicapped Equality Act, but today, after 20 years of debate and discussion on the rights of disabled people, there is no party centre of the four parliamentary parties that is accessible to the disabled. I would ask Mr Lapp from the Socialists to perhaps persuade colleagues to go there to Gusenbauer, at last also down the two steps in the Löwelstraße, and to have the three steps up to the press spaces provided with a ramp, so that disabled people can also find access in the wheelchair. I would ask all the parties here to move forward with a good example, because only if the political parties quickly implement the disability law in their own areas will we also experience that the private sector and the public sector are acting in parallel. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a debate on the APA was held yesterday on disabled access to medical practice in Austria. I thank Mr Huainigg and I thank my colleague, who have always stressed that health is an important area to be made accessible free of barriers. I do not thank the President of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians, nor the head of the Vienna regional health insurance fund, because there are smaller territorial health care phones, such as those in Burgenland, which since 1999 have only given medical practice if access to medical practice is established within a year. I do not regard it as progress that 12.5 percent of Vienna's doctor's practices are finally disabled if disabled people are still sent from the Labour and Social Court to orthopaedics in Vienna as experts who have their practice on the second floor – would be said in the federal states; in the first half mezzanine in Vienna – to be reviewed there. I do not consider it to be progress if the high judges do not even look into the files and people who have been active in the care allowance and pension as experts and who have refused the pension and the higher classification in the care allowance as invalids are still being used by the courts as independent experts. I fully understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in this situation people in the rule of law are in doubt, and I will therefore also talk to the Minister of Justice and the Presidents of the Supreme Court about the fact that it is necessary to show more sensitivity in file study and not always to instruct the same experts from the court. – It cannot be, it must not be, and it should not be in a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In my last speech, Mr President, I should like to say a few words to you in this House, after not quite 20 years. I would like to thank the employees of this House on all floors for their good cooperation! For almost three years I was also the third president of the Austrian National Council and deputy clubman of my group, then significantly larger, and I have learned to appreciate that there are members in the House at all levels of hierarchy who have in mind the rule of law and the rule of law and not the collection of small daily money. – A warm thanks to all employees! [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] As I see the head of state of Carinthia in the audience gallery, you also allow me to speak briefly as a Carinthian. When I came to the Austrian Parliament 20 years ago and here I spoke excellent personalities of the rule of law, such as Professor Ermacora, as an external spokesperson of his party, then for European enlargement, on the issue of settlements and on many other things, including the equal treatment of people with disabilities, the star-hours of Austrian parliamentarianism were. At the time, there was a consensus in the Austrian Parliament: that Article 1 of the Austrian Federal Constitution – the Constitutional Law – is the matter of the people and therefore the matter of the parliamentarian. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, there was no political dispute about the fact that Supreme Courts changed laws, but at that time there was a clear separation between legislation and control by the Supreme Courts. I wish, in the sense of an Austrian democratic, rule of law, that this is happening again in the House and that the Supreme Judges do not believe that they can do the work of the Members who have been elected, because the Supreme Judges are not elected by anyone, they are appointed and have obtained their positions for various reasons. [[Abg. Oils: Where are we?]] For minorities in particular, the rule of law and the constitutionality of this Republic are important – I emphasize: an important one! – Question, because if the rule of law is violated when laws passed by the Austrian Parliament are not taken seriously in the federal states, in the municipalities, in the local authorities, it is the people with disabilities who suffer. In 1970 we adopted an ÖNORM for Handicapped Building, in 1997 we adopted a joint declaration here in Parliament of all the parliamentary groups of the time, and a self-binding of the local authorities in the then financial compensation – from the municipalities to the cities to the countries and the federal government – to make public spaces more accessible to the disabled. Today we are in 2006, and I am not pleased, ladies and gentlemen, to have to say, as Members of the House, that there are only a few local authorities that also implemented the 1997 joint decisions at that time – and so it has often remained only with a lip commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, you all come from federal states, you all come from municipalities, you all come from local authorities: Finally, put in place what we promised disabled people in 1997 as the first step, and finally we implement what we promised with 1. January 2006 and with the Disability Equality Act the disabled people for the future in this country have promised a life, a self-determined life outside the institutions as people among people who, according to their own version and according to their own life plans and ideas, can become happy! [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course that I also read the newspapers – quite unlike when I was a minister and didn't read newspapers –: The criticism that has come from some of the Parliament's and newspapers on my new activity was visible, audible and legible. I can calm all the newspapers very much: I won't be quiet, I won't be silent if I leave the High House! I would like to say this with the words of Mr Bartenstein at the celebration of the 60th anniversary. Mrs Haubner's birthday says: I would have come up with all the ideas, but I would not have come to the idea of setting aside the Head of State on disability issues. I can only regard this as a praise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Something else – Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Molterer, you were a long-time minister in the so-called Ministry of Life –: I got a case on my desk yesterday, after which a disabled employee has been muttered in this ministry for nine years – and also the disabled representative of the ministry! I ask you, Mr Molterer, that you, as now ÖVP Klubobmann, together with Mr Huainigg, take action to ensure that everything is done in order to bring about an end to this mobbing against a disabled person as well as against the disabled representatives in the Ministry of Agriculture. Those who still don't know better, who still haven't learned that, should know: There must also be the restoration of human conditions! And perhaps you can also bring a good solution there by means of mediation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to give people with disabilities not only equal opportunities according to law, but also to implement it in practice! And in the so-called Ministry of Life, you should go ahead with a good example!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4262	Ladies and gentlemen! I have been informed by the main election authority that Mr Magistrate. HerbertHaupt today, with effect from 12 p.m., relinquishs his mandate. Mr President, you have been a member of the House for almost 20 years – with a short interruption. You were at the National Council's Bureau, always a committed and enthusiastic specialist here, appreciated by all the political groups for your expertise, commitment and commitment – which you have shown in your speech today. For three years you, Mr. Head of State, were a member of the Federal Government, and also Vice-Cancellor of the Federal Government. You have served the Republic and I would therefore like to thank you for your work and you, Mr Mag. Main, wish all the best for your new work in the service of our Republic! Thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] Mr Dolinschek, President-in-Office of the Council, spoke at the current hour. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4310	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Mr. Landeshauptmann Haider, welcome to the Hohe Haus! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== In January of this year, the law on the equal treatment of persons with disabilities is a reality in Austria. As the State Secretary responsible for the disabled, it has been reserved for me – after Mr Mag's thorough preparatory work. Herbert Haupt–, in negotiations with all the political groups in this House, in negotiations with the Ministry of Infrastructure, with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the social partners and the disabled associations, to finalise the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons and the Employment of Disabled Persons Act. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have created a solid basis for future dealing with people with disabilities. I would like to express my thanks to all those who have been involved in the law on disability equal treatment: the social partners, the Austrian Association for Rehabilitation and its chairman Dr. Klaus Voget, the Austrian Civil Invalidation Association – and all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like, above all, to thank Vice-Chancellors and Federal Minister other than Mag. Herbert Haupt, who has always been a real matter of heart in this law of equal treatment for the disabled. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The undivided claim of disabled people to a self-determined and equal life is an essential foundation of our social policy. Through targeted measures by this Federal Government, especially by our department, the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have managed in recent years to finally bring about a change in the social policy of paradigms in Austria: People with disabilities are increasingly no longer considered to be bitters and alms recipients, but rather as citizens and consumers with special needs, as people who have special strengths and use them, of course. These people have a legitimate right to self-determination, so they are a group of people that enriches our society as a whole and brings a great benefit to the working world. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to attend a joint event of the social partners, that is, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, an event that was entitled “to work without barriers” – something that is entirely within the meaning of the Law on the Equality of Disabled Persons – and I must say: I was really very concerned about this event. The aim is to integrate more people with disabilities into working life, something that was also started and implemented in Austria in 2001 with the “Million of people with disabilities” and the employment plan for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, better times have come for people with disabilities, and there have been targeted actions for disability policy in Austria in the first place, which is what shape our policy. This legislation gives discrimination against people with disabilities a clear rejection, no matter where such a thing happens: in the private or public sector, in the working world or elsewhere. There will be more accessibility for these people in the future. These principles, drawn up by the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Generations and Consumer Protection – in close cooperation with the previously mentioned disabled associations and with the social partners – and the proposals decided here in Parliament represent, so to speak, a whole package to improve the situation of these people. In this context, I should also like to mention the recognition and translation in sign language here in the House. [[The speaker points to the sign interpreter who translates the debate.]] As far as EU standards and the EU directive on employment and occupation are concerned, so to speak, for the Austrian law on equal treatment for disabled persons, similar legislation can be described as one of the most comprehensive legislations in both a European and an international comparison – Germany, France, Switzerland, Hungary, Belgium and the USA – so a law of quality with which Austria is at the top of Europe. In order to illustrate, I may refer to the German law on equal treatment for the disabled, which was adopted on 1 January 1989. In May 2002, a law in which no legal consequences are provided for in the case of public administration has entered into force; in addition, this legislation in Germany applies only to public administration. An Extended Discrimination protection against relatives is also not included in this German law. In Switzerland, France and Hungary, there is no such family protection, as it is contained in the Austrian law. And in the US, which is, as it were, a model country on disability issues, only a transitional scheme is foreseen in this respect by 2020. The Austrian Law on Disability guarantees discrimination for all areas of life and is therefore to be described as unique throughout Europe. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I would also like to point out the equal opportunities package and the resulting improvements in the law on the recruitment of disabled persons, as well as the protection of discrimination that has now been established in the case of reasons for employment. I would also like to draw attention to the fixing of the fee, to the granting of voluntary social benefits, which are not paid, to the numerous training and training measures, to re-training, to the possibilities of transport and access to self-employed jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this law represents an important step towards greater accessibility for all these people. As far as new buildings and transport facilities are concerned, this law has immediate effect. Investment amounts relating to accessibility shall be provided for within a range of 1 to 3 percent of the total amount of the entire construction project. On the side of the federal government, a phase plan for the removal of barriers is being drawn up; Measures in this direction will be implemented as soon as possible. For existing buildings, a transitional scheme of a maximum of ten years is provided for in this respect. In this context, I would remind you of the importance of more accessibility, but it benefits 24 000 people in the wheelchair, 70 000 people with leg fractures per year, 350,000 people in the stroller, 480 000 people with motion impairments and 3.1 million people with visual impairments. However, these necessary measures for greater accessibility will also lead to an increased investment boost for the economy and, ultimately, to the creation of many jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] According to the first calculations, up to 10,000 new jobs can be created in the construction and construction sector in particular. But other economic areas, such as tourism, also benefit greatly, because 64 percent of people with disabilities need a barrier-free holiday – this shows a study on “quality criteria in tourism” from 2002 – and above all, the better accessibility to gastronomy and to business venues – 70 percent are not yet accessible, it is still a lot to do – creates a new customer potential. Considering that 29.9% of the Austrian population have at least one disability, this is already enormous. In order to achieve this goal as quickly as possible and in order to achieve the highest possible degree of accessibility, our department also provides for funding of up to 50 percent up to 50 000 €. I will also actively accompany this process in the future, and I am pleased that with the appointment of the new federal disabled lawyer, with Mr Vice-Kanzler Federal Minister other than Herbert Haupt, we have won here an important competitor for the rights of people with disabilities. In the future, it will be responsible for the advice and support of persons who feel discriminated against in the sense of the Federal Employment Act. In this context, it should also be said that the disability package is an important step for all people with disabilities and even for overall social development, because a society is measured by how it deals with people who do not have it so easily in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4442	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. His speaking time is like the speaking time of all participants at the current hour, 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4464	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! I was at a social meeting yesterday, and there I was very moved by a statement by a wheelchair driver, who is now also a member of the Economic Parliament, Marianne Hengl. After all, in Tyrolean, she said: There are so many g’scheite Leut’, and I’m so stupid! I want to go to school, go to a higher school, but in my youth that was not possible, there was no integration at that time! This is, of course, something that needs to be changed, which must no longer happen, but I believe that in recent years, a lot has been done: There is now almost an integration class in every primary and secondary school. It's clear that this isn't enough. It's a way, and we're working on it. Over the last three years, we have created the integrated vocational training, which promotes the transition from school to the world of work. We have also put in place a lot of measures in the field of employment, such as employment billions – which is a success, because, contrary to the general economic trend, it has succeeded in creating 6 500 new jobs for disabled people in 2004 and in securing 8 900. Through a whole range of measures such as clearing, work assistance, personal assistance at work, wage subsidies, job adaptations and simply innovative projects, disabled people have also been able to get a job because they are learning disabled to integrate into the first labour market. We just have to continue this way! The main steps were also the recognition of the sign language in the constitutional rank – even today's meeting is interpreted in this great language – and the German law on disability equalisation, which has been established since 1. January is in power and will create an essential paradigm change to accessibility in all areas of life: that you can also get into transport by wheelchair, into buildings, that you can surf the Internet as a blind person, as a deaf person can consume the sign language, or that you can also come into medical practice. Yesterday, in press releases, Huainigg was criticized for raising the demand: Doctors must be accessible! – The new law on equal treatment for disabled persons will work because all new medical practices must have been in place since 1. ==References====External links== This is in the law and is, of course, to be done. My criticism refers to the existing medical practices, i.e. the existing ones must be gradually adapted and made accessible. This is also regulated by the Employment Equality Act. It's clear that this can't happen with a finger snap from today on tomorrow. But it has to start, and the back-up has to start. The law on equal opportunities sets the necessary impetus for this, and there are rules of feasibility which, over time, are always increasing in sharpness. We are either losing or I am losing a very committed competitor in Parliament with Herbert Haupt today. But he will retain us as a disabled lawyer and will devote himself to the issue of “equalisation of disabled people” from a different position with all his strength. I would like to wish you a good farewell, dear Herbert, “with all clarity” and – this is now also a small sign language course “in all clarity”: just like a wiper – can only say: Live well, adieu and toi, toi, toi!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4509	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4530	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! 800,000 people in Austria – 10% of the population – are considered disabled. ==References====External links==* Official website January 2006 is in force, applies to them and their families. A new budget was introduced: If a person is discriminated against, he can go to the Federal Social Office and simply leave an incident there. It can then also be turned on mediation. If all of this does not help and discrimination does not stop, then you can go to court. Another institution was created, namely the disabled lawyer. This disabled lawyer is not exempt from the law, he does not have to report to Parliament, he is a contact point for disabled people, which is very toothless. When this facility was opened up, the procedure was very clear: Former Minister Herbert Haupt has already presented himself as suitable in advance. He then became a disabled lawyer and will be active in this function in the near future. This is the ex-minister responsible for accident pension taxation and for the introduction of ambulance charges. This is also the ex-minister who already knew as a member of the government that the economic course failed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] This is the ex-minister and future disabled lawyer, by which, according to the newspaper reports in the office of the disabled lawyer, care posts are now created for employees in BZÖ ministries! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Disabled people need competent support – and are not interested in supply and post chess methods! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Last-class!]] I wish you all the best for your work, Mr Chief of Disabled Persons, but the Constitution applies to you as well. All people in Austria have to comply with the Constitution. That this doesn't get through to Carinthia is really a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you know what the Constitution says?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no single word in the Law on Equal Opportunities on Education. Parents with disabled children continue to have funnels to do so that they can be taught in an integral way so that their child can be promoted together with other children according to talents and abilities. The situation of parents with disabled children is a very difficult and characterized by very many bitts. There is no way out of the law on equal treatment for disabled persons. We Social Democrats have found a way out of this, and many dedicated teachers are working on it. It is the “including pedagogy”. This means that all pupils are taught together, every student and every student according to his and her abilities, strengths and weaknesses. But with a Minister of Education Gehrer representing Stone Age Education, this will not work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The law on equal treatment for disabled persons introduced the action. If someone wants to come to his right, he gets support that he or she can go to an organization. Do you know how this association action is regulated? – As a disabled person, you have to find an organization and then seek support from the Federal Disability Advisory Council, which meets twice a year. This is not citizen-friendly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Disabled people know that you are building air locks with your “news from the future” because the reality of disabled people looks very different. For example, barrier reduction. This is an essential aspect of the need for people with disabilities to have equal access. You have moved the barrier reduction to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. – We reject such a policy! That's what we're criticising! Disabled people need a strong lobby of all social groups, they need competent support – and not anointing words!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4632	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4654	Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Herbert Haupt, the future disabled lawyer, said that over the course of his 20 years of activity here in Parliament, there have been many highlights, but also very many depths in the field of disability policy. He pointed out that there was a highlight in 1993 when care was introduced. That's right! We were all happy that there will be care in the future. However, it must not be forgotten that the disabled themselves have struggled with this care: 60 000 signatures have been collected by the Austrian Civil Disability Association in order to repress this claim. So it was not the Minister Hesoun who, more or less, out of good conscience or voluntarily introduced care for the disabled, but it was the constant pressure of the disabled organisations that caused it, and for this they really have to thank. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Deep down, there's been a lot of things. For me, it was the greatest depth when, in 1996/97, the Federal Government had the third load package, in which 100 billion schillings were to be saved, of which 4 billion shillings had to carry the disabled. There has been a reduction in the care allowance, a removal of the care allowance in case of hospital stays and a reduction in the allowance for disabled persons in case of home accommodation! Those were really great depths, Mrs Lapp. I'd ask you to see that too. These deep-seated interventions have been made under the leadership of a socialist Social Minister in the financial situation of the disabled! – There should no longer be such a thing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are pleased to see the following: Since the beginning of its term of office, this Federal Government has repeatedly looked forward to improving people with disabilities in order to improve them. Every law has been considered: What can we do for the disabled? With an enormous self-evidentness that has not yet existed, this federal government has been thinking of people with disabilities since the start of its activity and has made what previous governments have failed to do. For the first time since 1993, care has been increased. 30 million € have been made available to disabled people – at a huge savings rate. Of course, it's always too little, that's right, but it's been the first time there's been an increase in the care allowance. Since its introduction, the disabled has created 17 000 jobs. We all know that disabled people are always hard on the labour market, but with this disability billion, it has succeeded in giving an employment impetus. We were also active in the field of justice for the disabled and have created the Home Residence Act or the Home Treaty Act, so that there are now guidelines on how a home must proceed in order to treat the people they care for accordingly. These are important priorities that have been set. The most important and far-reaching law is, of course, the law on equal treatment for the disabled, which we passed last year. It contains widespread prohibitions of discrimination and provides the legal basis for the introduction of a disabled lawyer, as we have already heard today. If Mrs. Lapp believes that it is a big manko that the disabled lawyer is not wise, I reply that this is really just an attempt to do everything bad again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] There is no intention at all by the Minister of Social Affairs to give instructions to the disabled person! It can be switched off completely freely and available to the disabled. Mrs Lapp, what you have done today in the direction of the person of the honourable Member's head, this is really just an attempt to adapt someone once, for example, when you talk about care posts. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of SPÖ) That is immense! That's scandalous!]] I don't know how many disability events you were when Herbert was Minister of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No one at all!]] I have been with many, and I have seen with what interest, with what commitment, with what understanding Herbert Haupt has addressed all the concerns and questions and demands of the disabled! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Herbert Haupt has shown enormous patience, and I am convinced that he is the right man for the position of the disabled lawyer because he has the power to enforce something in the interests of all the disabled!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4739	Next, Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking. She too has a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The law on equal treatment for disabled persons is the legal requirement that we now have a disabled lawyer. There were twelve candidates for this facility, but no one was invited to a hearing. Finally, the former minister has become chief disabled lawyer. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell me, however, that he was by far the best!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am not jealous of him, but the procedure with which these posts have been occupied is more than questionable. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, if you say there would have been a unanimous decision on this, I say: Yes, you're right! But the only voice that has decided was that of Mrs Haubner, Mrs Haubner, none. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Incredible what you say again!]] There was no hearing, no expert group, there was nothing like that! There was only the Minister Haubner, who made Mr. Head the disabled lawyer. I just wanted to say this because all the other eleven applicants have learned about the media that they do not get this function, and so, by having to understand that the Minister is also the head of the future disabled attorney. I do not think that is necessarily the nice, nice and right way to report the rejection to applicants even before they have ever seen or talked to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now it is up to the former minister to be the head of the future disabled lawyer. I wish you good luck, Mr Haupt – and above all much health! But one thing, Mr. Haupt, I would like to say to you: As your work has now begun, it must not be continued! I'll tell you why. Since you, Mr. Haupt, are a disabled lawyer, there is the so-called ‘Future 2013’ spot. I don't know who you've seen this spot "Future 2013", but if you understand it, then you will notice that those who have made this spot have blessed it and who finance it are such a thing from the other side, because nothing remains between the lines. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For example, there's a mockery about a woman Barbara, and it's said that 2013 is all palette, because then she's a manager in a big business. By the way, she has a cross-sectional paralysis, but that's not a subject. It has had an accident six years ago and has since been cross-sectional. So if you just think a little more about what is said in this spot, then you end up: This woman Barbara must have an accident in 2007 so that she can be a manager in 2013. Isn't that crazy? Are you really all crazy? [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] Do you not believe that in Austria we do not already have enough disabled people who can say how the working world really looks?- Oh, my God! It may be that it will be a little better in 2013 but now to make a future forecast that if you have an accident in 2007, it will be better in 2013 is not helpful. I'm not allowed to make this handsign, but “real” isn't there anymore. I can say that loud, too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Have you already said something positive in here?]] That's how our disabled attorneys started! Mr. Haupt, to your information: Our party headquarters was accessible from the first day. It's never been a subject, it's just like that. Another point: Doctoral practice. – Mr. Haupt, you said today that we must finally make the doctor's practices accessible. I am now one and a half years in the Advisory Board of the Austrian Medical Chamber, and this is about creating quality standards for medical practice, but so far nothing has happened with regard to barrier-free medical practices, because the medical board refuses to agree that medical practice must be barrier-free. Mr Rasinger, you know that too. As it has now been said, everything is changing: Nothing changes because this has not been included in the quality criteria! So it'll stay the way it is. If anyone in front of the television screens now believes that now retroactively with 1. January 2006 for people with disabilities the Schlaraffenland has broken out, that all of us are suddenly equal – juhu, great, we are where we wanted to go! - I'm sorry to let you down. It is not, because discrimination must continue to take place in the future, and it must not be neglected. This is the biggest mistake in this law on equal treatment for the disabled!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4869	Mr President, your speaking time has expired, but you can say one more final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4884	I would just like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: The law of equal treatment in the current version has a name, but no content. But we need a content so that people with disabilities can have a right to equal participation in social life as non-inhibited people, and can sue it in all areas and not just want it. That's too little! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4912	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4933	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. State Secretary! High house! I do not want to comment on the statements made by my previous speakers, Mrs Lapp and Mrs Haidlmayr, because I am very important to me in the field of disability, and therefore I would like to avoid any polemization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That was polemik!]] In recent years, under Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel as well as under the Social Ministers Herbert Haupt and Ursula Haubner, many improvements have been achieved for people with disabilities and their families. I can remind you of some of them. The sign language was recorded in the Austrian Constitution, which has already been mentioned. Through the eGovernment, there is the possibility to do away with public authorities from home. Also mentioned are the valorization of the care allowance with an increase of 2 per cent at all stages of care, the favoured self-insurance for caregivers and their relief in day care in the form of a retirement or so-called sick leave. These are covered financially by a support fund. The Residence Act established legal clarity regarding restrictions on freedom, which serves the protection of the persons concerned, but also that of the other residents and of the care staff. Disability billions have created or secured 7 000 jobs for people with disabilities, and investment in businesses has been extended to improve accessibility. The promotion of the sport of disabled persons is also mentioned here. Some things have already been said about the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. It provided a way of making access to buildings and transport accessible. The prohibition of discrimination and harassment offers equal opportunities for people with disabilities, while the prohibition of discrimination also applies to members. Claims for damages are secured. Equality in the working world, a non-profit-making federal disabled lawyer – and at this point I am allowed to wish Herbert Haupt all the best for his future activity – but also the possibility of a conciliation procedure with appeals opportunities offer comprehensive legal protection. I would particularly like to highlight personal assistance in the workplace, which will enable people with high care and assistance needs to take up and succeed in the first labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You see, a lot has happened in recent years. But there is much more to do. The fact that everything does not work optimally in the implementation has to do with acting persons, often also with us. Let me give you an example: A company has a socially very dedicated department head, who repeatedly employs people with disabilities on supported jobs and is also open to projects, such as projects with “life aid” or with “promendations”. After a few months, the Works Council was confronted with the fact that efforts were being made. They were not prepared to deal with their disabled colleagues – nor were there an open ear in the leadership level for their concerns. It was about they didn't want to do anything wrong. Two employees were fully responsible for work instructions and did not know what they could demand or how to deal with opposition from colleagues. – The Works Council turned to me, and I was able to set up a training seminar for these colleagues with the Federal Social Office and its experts. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now ask yourself: Why does she tell us that? I would like to inform you that in politics we can only create framework conditions through the laws. However, real integration is only possible if not only the situation of disabled people, but also the people around them are observed! If these are uncertain because they have never had to deal with disabled people, or if they are perhaps overwhelmed, good will and effort can still become a nuisance – and lead to aggression. That is why it is very important for all of us in this area to calm down, support and take all concerned seriously with their feelings and concerns! If the view is not made on the whole, but on the one hand, it is not tolerance, but ignorance and distance are promoted. The ÖVP as a Christian-social party is aware of this responsibility and will always look at the whole: for the benefit of disabled people in our country. Go this way with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4994	Next, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig speaks. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5015	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Riener, I really believe that what is happening to disabled people should come from ignorance to tolerance – and even more beautiful would be my belief in acceptance, so that we do not even have to talk about it. That would be the goal on which we should all work together! – Yes, you can talk about it, but of course it would be wonderful, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't talk about it? We do! We want to talk about it!]] The theme of this current hour is: ‘Disability policy: Equal rights for all people with special needs". – I mean: In all the euphoria that has come from the government parties today, we should not forget, above all, who we have to do with disability policy, namely for the people concerned and also for their families! I think there is still a really big piece of work in front of us, which you see when talking with affected people, with affected parents. In my opinion, attention must also be paid to the different types of disability, and it must be very sensitive to and with those concerned in order to achieve the best for them. Above all, however, we must take care – as I am of the opinion of Mr Riener – to ensure that all of us can work together to reduce barriers, even in the minds, so that there is a completely unconventional and normal way of dealing with people with disabilities. We should not look at their weaknesses, but above all at their strengths, because it must be a top principle – I believe, we are all of one opinion – to allow disabled people to participate in our social life and a self-determined life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the way to a self-determined life, I believe that a very essential point is participation in the labour market. This participation in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, is already starting at school, starting with training, just like with all other children, because school education is the foundation for a self-determined, successful life – and this, of course, also applies to disabled people. If this Federal Government, when Mrs. Haubner and Mr. State Secretary Dolinschek write in their national labour market policy disability programme that there is an urgent need for action in this area, especially as the number of pupils with special educational needs in integration classes and special schools is increasing, I think that we all agree, too, that there is a great deal of service in schools, whether in integration classes or in special schools. Especially in the special schools, ladies and gentlemen, it is the case that children with the most diverse disabilities are being trained, and I would like to draw your attention to a problem that a very dedicated director in my district has told me that there is, in principle, only a single curriculum in the special schools: from the basic children to be promoted, that is, where one really imparts basic knowledge, where the children need to be fed, to the weak children. In my opinion, we should help the directors to make a distinction between the curriculum so that the children can get a better start into the world of work – and thus also entrepreneurs can see that special school does not have to be the same special school. I therefore invite you to support this great wish of the directors – and I believe that this is just too legitimate a demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A second big problem I know from the Sun School in Amstetten is that there are increasingly scarce means of therapy in schools. It is indeed true that, for example, for the very successful completion or also for a painting therapy, this director has to go for private sponsoring, something that I think is immense! I mean, such a thing cannot be simply put into private hands, but it must be a task of the state, it must fall into the social responsibility of the state! That is where the direction of this federal government cannot apply “less state, more private”! This represents a social-political mission to all of us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The next big problem I see in the life of a disabled person is the transition to professional life. At the moment, there are two types: the ‘life aid’ offers, which are very good, and that of the free economy. But there are also people who have their performance in between, and for these people, I believe I have more to do. I already know that there are employment projects, but there is a very big problem in this area: those people, those young people who work in employment projects that are really skilled, where young people are employed and qualified, are not socially insured. These people do not purchase insurance periods there, they do not receive a fee, but only receive a pocket money. This is a major problem for disabled young people, all their lives, because these years disabled people are dying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] There is something you can change, Mr Donabauer! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Donabauer.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] As Mr Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] – I am already at the end, Mr President. – Unfortunately, this one of my suggestions did not experience a response at the time, but perhaps Mr Mag. As a disabled lawyer, the main task now is to do more for disabled people. At least I wish him all the best, especially in the sense of the people concerned, so that we can move on again in dealing with disabled people.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5129	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. [[Abg. Walch goes to the speaker's desk.]] – Aha, there is a renomination. Mr Walch is the next speaker. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5159	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Haidlmayr, I am already a little disappointed by you, because that can't have been the truth and your seriousness, what you said here at the speaker's desk about Herbert Haupt! A social minister like Mag. There has not been so much for disabled people in Austria in the last 30 years! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the comments of Mr Lapp, I would just like to say: You of the SPÖ would have had enough time to do something when you were in the government and put the Minister of Social Affairs! But at the time you took away more from the SPÖ than you gave to the disabled! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as Minister of Social Affairs, has done a lot for our country or also for the disabled in Austria! Under Herbert Haupt's ministry, there have been so many legislative changes and improvements, so that I actually have to talk for an hour to list all of this. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Go!]] Mr Haupt has – once in the Second Republic! – introduce a billion disabled people and thus do something for people with disabilities – regardless of whether this is training or retraining measures and improvements so that they get a job in businesses, and much more. In this context, I should like to mention briefly: Care allowance, increased care allowance, remodelling; Discrimination has been removed. This is disability policy, and I thank you very much, on behalf of my group, for what you have done, Mr Herbert, because everything has been done. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would just like to mention a few legal provisions that we have created and against which the opposition has voted most often: the increase in the amount of care, the harmonisation in the social professions, the Federal Ministry of Care, the establishment of the care telephone, the family hospice, quality assurance in the case of domestic care, a home residence law, the extension and promotion of supplementary insurance for caregivers, easy access up to the care level 3, care allowance from the birth of the child – where were you, why did you not introduce this decades ago? – earlier, there was this only from the third year of life of the child, and much more. [[Abg. Steibl: ( towards SPÖ) And now stop it again!]] In addition to these measures, reconstruction measures have also been adopted. In addition, 17 000 jobs have been created for the disabled, especially in the construction sector, which, of course, I am very pleased as the works council of a construction firm. I would like to say to the Greens and Social Democrats: That's disability policy! In Austria, a period is coming to an end with the Minister of Social Affairs, who has really created something in the social field. There is a whole list of measures in the social field, measures adopted by the Minister for Social Affairs Herbert Haupt. And there is again a Social Minister, Ursula Haubner, who is working in this sense, especially in the social field, for families, for children – with her State Secretary Sigisbert Dolinschek. Dear Herbert, thank you very much! You were also social speakers in Parliament. I will perform this function in your mind and work with all the strength for improvements for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5261	The last speaker in the current hour is Mr Brosz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The law on equal treatment for disabled persons has a good title? – Mr Haidlmayr has rightly pointed out that a good law requires more than a title. And I am also very glad that this debate is being translated into sign language today, so that at least today it is possible for people who are deaf to watch the debate on television. We know, however, that this is not the case in all the other debates that are being held here in the House, and we know what problems we have with the fact that messages are translated at all. Then – and this has not been mentioned at all by colleague Haidlmayr – you make a mockery, colleague Dolinschek, a spot where it is presented that in 2013 a deaf senior physician will be working in an Austrian hospital. A deaf senior doctor! – We know that the working time of the doctors is on average 12 hours a day. You can imagine what conditions this doctor would need in order to be able to work there at all. Who will make the money available if there – I have inquired about this – two to three interpreters are necessary to accompany him all day long, so that he can be active there at all? Where, then, are the budget items planned for this fiction you are spreading to become reality at some point? – Nowhere is that foreseen. Nowhere! And that's the big problem with your presentation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially when you look at the sign language that was enshrined in the Constitution last year, and when you look at the data on what is real in Austria, you have to say: There are needs for action, and you should not make mockery in which you say: Everything's great! Do you know, Mr Dolinschek, how many deaf students there are in Austria? [[State Secretary Dolinschek: I don't know outside!]] 30! There are 30 deaf students in Austria. It's 500 in Sweden. In Sweden – this is a model country, so I mention it here – there are a lot more interpreters in the sign language that make it possible for this vision you are developing to become a reality. Not even in the deaf schools in Austria – you have to imagine that! – mandatory sign language taught! This is the reality we now find. They have made a law that does not stand in the implementation of reality. We say: It's great that it's in the Constitution! – That’s why my colleague Haidlmayr has fought for years – but if you stop there and let yourself be celebrated, you haven’t seen the problem by far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look at the accessibility of the Austrian schools... [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Dolinschek.]] - Excuse me: Schools on the one hand and university on the other. Who does not know the University of Vienna, the main university, and who really assumes that it is really accessible?- Oh, my God! That's absurd if you pretend everything is possible here. If you look at the school situation more closely, you have to say it is true, there are now many integration classes in Austria. Yeah, but where? – Up to the eighth level, but not everywhere until the eighth level. What happens at the ninth level? – All disabled people, all disabled people, all those who do not have the conditions, can only go to polytechnic schools, and then it is over. Moreover, there are no conditions at all. When you look at the alternatives that people with disabilities are offered: It is not true that commercial academies, HTLs, gymnasia are accessible free of barriers; most are not. There are already offers: One can, for example, make a trade academy for people with disabilities in Vienna, but there equality looks such that they have to go to boarding school no matter where they come from, because this is the only school in which they have the opportunity to really perceive the teaching. That's equality? Should that really be equality? I think these examples show that something else is necessary. [[State Secretary Dolinschek:... not from today to tomorrow!]] Mr Dolinschek, yes, from today to tomorrow much will not necessarily be possible to solve. Correct. But the question is: What are you doing with it? And: Do you guarantee us that schools that are being rebuilt will be really accessible from now on? [[State Secretary Dolinschek: Within ten years!]] That's a wonderful realization if you say that now. In the previous year, Minister Gehrer replied to the question of whether schools are being rebuilt: No, but if it is necessary, then you will create solutions. This statement is just too absurd, because if someone in the fourth class comes to see him attend a trade academy next year, then I look at how this trade academy will be converted within five months so that there is the opportunity to have accessible access to education! We are facing these problems in reality, and I believe it is high time that we made a step further by means of constitutional provisions that sound good, so that real accessibility and equality can be lived in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5373	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:07:43]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5394	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5595	Mr Cap spoke on business. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5617	Mr President. I would like to express my stranger at the beginning of the meeting. We have publicly suggested that, because of the events surrounding the theft of the “Saliera”, but also because of the unprofessional approach around the Klimt images and much more, a declaration by Federal Minister Gehrer here in Parliament would have been necessary. This has not come true until the hour, nor will it take place. That is why I would like to say in all public and clear terms: We will make a request that a special meeting be held here in the House at the specified time frame, so that we can deal with these matters in the context of a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5647	A request has not been made, but according to our use, each of the club members is now given the opportunity to comment. Please, Mr Molterer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5671	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, I am already looking forward to this special meeting and the discussion about it, just as I am pleased that the “Saliera” has returned. In some discussions I have the impression that these discussionees would like that the “Saliera” is still not there. I would also like to thank the police who have done a great job, ladies and gentlemen, and would like to draw attention to this, Mr Cap, that on 2 October. A meeting of the Committee on Culture will take place on February, where the report of the Council of Restitutions is an item on the agenda and where, of course, there is also the possibility of addressing these questions in the interests of a current debate. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] I do not see a need for a special session, but we see it very interested and relaxed and will naturally be happy to have the necessary discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5713	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5734	Mr President, you have already said this: No application was made. Therefore, any comment would be unnecessary. Just maybe to illustrate: I think it is the first time a group has announced a special meeting with a word on business treatment. So you see what it's all about: political acting! Of course, you can discuss everything, but it would be interesting for the “Saliera” to wait for what the consent of the suspected perpetrator brings, and then discuss it. There have also been attempts to discuss this issue today. That was all too little. You need the highlight because you don't seem to have any other topics. We too look forward to the special meeting with joy and interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5770	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking. Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5792	Firstly, it is the right of a group to demand a special meeting – that is not a request but a right. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] Secondly, I think it would be a good thing for Federal Minister Gehrer to stand up for this debate. Thirdly, it is absolutely not the merit of the Federal Minister Gehrer or the Federal Government that the “Saliera” is back, Mr. Molterer, but a deserve of the police. I am very excited about how Federal Minister Gehrer tries once again to bagate the obvious failures in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[10:11]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5827	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, before the entry into the agenda, put forward the request for the self-employed to be submitted at the same time, motion No 765/A (E) by the honourable Member. Mr Molterer, ladies and gentlemen, on the continuation of the successful launch of the stock exchange. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5851	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform Mrs Mag. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, requested the Constitutional Committee to report to it on the application 732/A (E) concerning the initiation of a procedure in accordance with Art. 142 para. 1 lit. e the federal constitution against the head of the state of Carinthia, Dr. Jörg Haider, a period of time until 1. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. In view of the request for urgent procedure for today's sitting, the short debate will take place thereafter. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Alfred Gusenbauer, fellow Members, asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Gusenbauer's amendment 460/A (E) to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for a period of up to 28 years. ==References== With regard to Rule 57b of the Rules of Procedure, the request for a short debate in this context cannot be accepted. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5896	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 5 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5920	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 as well as Green 104 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall come to the vote immediately, and I ask the club staff to remove themselves from the couloirs. Mr Pilz! The club staff like to remove themselves from the couloirs! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I am talking to you, Mr Pilz. I asked that before the vote the club staff who were standing in conversation with you leave the couloir. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] No, the other one who has gone since then! So, we can vote now. Whoever agrees to this proposal of the President-in-Office of the Council, I would ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall therefore proceed in this way. [[10:15:01]] 1. Point Report by the Transport Committee on motion 757/A by Mr Klaus Wittauer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hannes Missethon, colleagues in a federal law amending the driving licence law (9. FSG-Novelle (1274 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5990	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Its welcome time is 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6017	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! [[Abg. Oillinger: Where's Mr. Vice chancellor?]] Mr. Federal Minister – oh, he is not here, Mr. Federal Minister. I don't care, but at least in committee he was here this time. So he changes the scenarios: once he's in committee, once he's here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6044	Excuse me, colleague. May I remind the ladies and gentlemen of the House that we have a rule that we do not give the honourable Member a back when speaking: Mr Murauer and the club worker to the Social Democrats! I have to remind you of this without interruption. That's a simple rule! Please, Mr Eder.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6065	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a request from Mrs Wittauer and Mr Dipl.-Ing. To treat Missethon, which is actually a little embarrassing. Apparently, you came up with it at the last moment: If you were allowed by Regulation 160 km/h on motorways and left the current driving licence this way, the driving licence could only be taken at 210 km/h. And to prevent this, you're making this request here now. Interestingly, on the grounds of this request, it is so beautiful: “It is to be offered” by this request “to stop senseless shaving”. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! If I want to enforce test distances with 160 km/h per regulation, I ask myself: Isn't that a joke? [[Abg. Scheibner: No senseless shaving!]] – Ah, that’s a full shave, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner?- Oh, my God! I'd like to stay here. The Socialists will vote against this motion, not because it is because, as Mr Missethon said in a press release, we are 210 km/h, but we are basically in favour of maintaining the current speed regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we simply do not want people to be unnecessarily threatened – and also the ÖVP does not really want that. I still have the statements from Mr Missethon's predecessor – and here also in the newspaper, where Mr Miedl thinks, Gorbach bears the sole responsibility for the entire project. – Well, if you continue to vote in favour of this, Mr Missethon, then he will no longer carry it alone, but then you will carry the responsibility very slowly for this whole project. If you think about who your competitors are, you have to say that they are really very, very few. Hardly a country captain is for your proposal. I think only of the Upper Austrian head of state, even not far from the ÖVP: He was the strictest against the fact that one should drive 160 km/h in Upper Austria, even though there would have been three-track motorways there. Also, the ÖAMTC, which is not totally negative about these things, says: If so, then at least on three-track highways. But what did you do? – One has chosen a motorway, in a federal country whose country captain is a good friend, to take a two-track motorway, and thus, of course, the risk potential is much higher. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's not do experiments with people! Even the arguments, no one has to drive 160 km/h, are ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the speed regulations we have! We prefer to continue to work on transport safety measures: If we work on the fact that trucks have a winter tire requirement, for example, we are working to ensure that trucks are obliged when they drive through Austria to have snow chains. – These are regulations that bring something to the people! But with 160 km/h running through the area?- Oh, my God! – To do this, I think it brings about a minute of saving time, but it threatens people much more than speed 130, and I am not talking about more CO2 and more noise and all these things. Let's return to reason! Let's leave it all! Let's just as it is – I think it's more sensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6114	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6135	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! High house! Mr Eder, you know, of course, that we would have had to close this gap in the driving licence law anyway, because the road traffic regulations give us the opportunity to allow authorities to increase the maximum speed. That is to say, it is very important for us that we set the lid at 180 km/h for the acceptance of the licence and not issue the licence for the lawn, as the SPÖ does by not agree. [[Abg. Neudeck: That means not “cover”, but driving license!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to the test track in Carinthia, where we want to start the attempt to test a speed corridor between 80 and 160 km/h. Personally, I am in favour of looking at this attempt in peace and quiet... [[Abg. Eder: “Nights” is good...!]] Mr Eder, you will not be able to escape: The limitation to 130 km/h on motorways was introduced in the 1970s. Let's remember what time that was: There's most of them driving a VW beetle! At that time, Mr Eder, Mr Cap was still a revolution within the SPÖ, today he is a system holder! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very “white”! A “dazzling” speech!]] The 1970s, that was the time when the greens were still green, and now, of course, much has changed over these 30 years, including the development of technology, which leads to technological progress. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Really “super”, this speech! He's just intertwined!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Today we have well-developed motorways, high-tech products as cars, and I therefore believe that we cannot ignore technological progress, especially with regard to the safety of cars, but also with regard to traffic control systems and road safety systems, but should, so to speak, adjust ourselves to this attempt. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Say something that is not intertwined, Mr Missethon!]] Three questions are important to us from the EIA in this context: What is the question of road safety in such a test? What about the ecological issues? And: Does a variable speed limit improve traffic flow? These are three important questions for us, whereby we look at this attempt in peace and then evaluate the results. Only then will we make a judgment. I really do not want to argue with prejudices now, as some of the opposition have done here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you already have them, the prejudices!]] We have seen how it was in Denmark when the permissible speed was increased from 110 km/h to 130 km/h: Mr Parnigoni: the number of deaths in the event of accidents will rise, et cetera. All the experts were against this attempt. – The result in retrospect was... – No, the number of fatalities has not increased, but has fallen by 25 percent! [[Abg. Eder: Has risen too!]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Eder.]] That's why I'd say: Wait for the whole thing in peace, quietly analyze the results – and then draw the right consequences from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6284	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Requested speaking time 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6306	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “Awaiting in peace” I would just like to say: I do not want to answer that, Mr Missethon, because the results that your tests are supposed to bring are already widely secured by expert opinions. For example, there is an opinion on the “effects of Tempo 160 on Austria’s motorways, ” which says quite clearly: more accidents, more deaths, more pollutants. There is also an opinion – over 100 pages – from the Board of Directors for Transport Safety concerning the “effects of the changes in the maximum speed from 130 to 160 on Austria’s motorways”, and I would like to present the results to you once again. I would like to refer to your application today in connection with an amendment to the driving licence law and driver's licence withdrawal at 180 km/h – and not as it would be possible to do so by law, at 210 km/h – as well as to the fact that Mr. Vice-Kanzler Gorbach needs a campaign topic and is therefore discussing speed 160 – and that, although he knows that this is completely counterproductive. Mr Missethon, I would remind you of the following – you do not need to wait ‘in peace’, as you have said, but only to read them in peace, in this opinion of the Transport Safety Board, in which it is said that an increase in the maximum speed is contrary to the objective of the Austrian Transport Safety Programme, i.e. that is contrary to the objectives set here in Parliament. Furthermore, this opinion states that an increase in the maximum speed leads to higher accident rates, a higher level of injury, and that, on the basis of international experience, it can be expected that an increase in the accident rate will be expected by 15 to 30 percent. And more concrete examples. In the United States of America, in Montana, the pace limits were increased. And what was the result? – 55 percent more fatal accidents! – We cannot and do not want to answer that from the Greens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Look for Hungary where it has reached 10 km/h higher tempo limits on free land roads. What was the result? – 30 percent more accidents! Therefore: No to this attempt, no to this risk, no to an attempt at people, on living objects! [[Abg. May. Controller: This is not an attempt on people!]] Look for Australia, to Melbourne, where the speed limit has been increased from 100 to 110 km/h! The result? – 25 percent more accidents! In this context, I am not talking about the pollutants at all, not about noise: The population, the people in Carinthia, are still being taxed! At the beginning of May, when these experiments will take place because of the “sich-das-in-rest” prophesied by the ÖVP, the people will certainly resist and protest. Again: We of the Greens are massively opposed to this attempt – and all experts are right to do so; You can ask everyone there. That is why we propose another way: We want the “humanity” of the Austrians to be changed, which reaches speed limits, that people drive more cautiously, that they drive adapted – and that a excess of speed limits – plus 30 km/h higher than allowed! – becomes a preeminent offence. That would be a real system of action! Therefore, our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Großruck: The drivers will thank you for this request!]] Mr Colleagues from Grieskirchen, quite simply: The Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, has always said: 160 to stay 160! – We say: 130 will stay 130! And if at least the 160 actually remain 160 in the tests, you should use the pre-remark system for that. This is an obvious thing, but unfortunately you do not resort to this instrument, unfortunately, you still have an overly high speed as before. For us, there is an urgent need for action, for us this is a call to finally do something so that not every week a whole family dies on Austria's streets! Remember that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Remember, too, that the motorways with us are not designed for them! Remember, for example, that on this test track at night a speed limit of 110 km/h is required! A 110 km/h limit at night on this test track in Carinthia – and it will be “flexibility” to 160 km/h during the day, as you say! That's ghastly! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Mr Wattaul, you know that trucks are also on the road. Trucks drive at a maximum speed of 80 according to the requirement. What's going to happen, because the truck overlap is not prohibited there, but allowed? – Now a 90 km/h truck overwhelms an 80 km/h – and behind comes a car with 160 km/h. That's what I'm looking at! That's what I'm looking at! [[Abg. Scheibner: If it only drives 10 km/h faster, it must not overtake!]] For this reason, it has been recommended in an opinion in such a large speed difference to order a truck ban. Of course, the economy is stormy; that would be a deterioration for them. – I am afraid that this test track will lead to the other variant, i.e. the increase in truck temperature limits, so to speak, that trucks may be allowed to drive even faster, only to win one minute of driving time with their 160 km/h raseries! I mean, that's totally grotesque, Mr. Cot. Completely grotesque! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, Carinthia is not the first time a discussion about tempo limits, and not for nothing has this Carinthian problem of tempo limits already occupied the whole Republic; not only now, where it is about tempo 160, but also in 1994 when it came to compliance with 50 km/h in the area. [[Abg. Scheibner: And that's all right for someone to drive quickly in the area? Willful!]] I remember: St. Kantian was also the reason for a Slovenian to try to assert his right to a sign with bilingual village panels. This gentleman, a lawyer, has had to commit a speed violation. On the recommendation of Mr Khol, he went 65 km/h in order to obtain a penalty against which he can fight, so that at last the question of the placeboard is also raised at the top courts in Austria. This is the crux of development in Carinthia, which we still have to follow in the example of the town boards, where the rule of law is still not the rule of law. However, we want legal conditions, we want to have conditions that require that the population can have confidence in state protection actions, conditions that ensure the protection of human rights and minority rights and also the protection of human life. That's why we're in total! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why you can drive too fast in the area?]] Mr Mainoni or Mr Kukacka, I would like to ask you, in the representative of the Minister, to address this problem, especially since today there is also a need to discuss the rule of law in Austria, the legal culture in Austria in connection with minority rights, in the context of human rights as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6455	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, Member of Parliament, Dr Gabriela Moser, friends and friends on the prevention of irresponsible grass ("at least 160 must stay 160!") is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6526	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6547	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Transport safety has always been the first premise of our transport policy – and it will remain! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, you can argue anything, but you should also look at the results. This government can report that there are 25 percent fewer road fatalities on Austria's roads. – You can't discuss that away, that's fact! You have to think about it honestly. But I have been in this House for some time now and can say: No matter if drug tests, whether multi-phase driving licence, no matter what action this government has taken to achieve the goal of halving the number of road deaths within the next ten years, you have voted against each measure. [[Abg. Eder: No, no, no! That's wrong!]] We have reached a compromise on every measure, except for the drug test. [[Abg. Eder: Light a day!]] I know something very well, and that makes me so sure: You're talking about something that's not right. It is precisely with this measure, which aims at the psyche of the road users – because we already have to know that the greatest uncertainty factor in the Transport, of course, is a human being – and this discussion also means trying to get road users to really consider the traffic situation, the road conditions, the weather conditions, especially the technical requirements of the vehicles. On Tempo 160 you also have to say that it is not that this is not controlled. It is precisely these sectors that are measured temporarily, namely with Section Control, and then with radar. That means that this is a particularly controlled roadway. Mrs Moser meant what will be if many trucks drive there. – What will be then? Then the competent gentleman in the traffic control system will reduce the speed limit from 160 to 110 because there is so much traffic on this two-track motorway. That is why your argument, “160 is shaving!” is simply not in place. For example, if in the morning no truck traffic, so there is little traffic and only a few cars drive, then if the weather allows, one will allow speed 160. What's the point? As we know, there is also this direction speed in Germany. We trust in it, and I believe it is also right that road users take responsibility that they themselves know how to behave. I'm talking about raising consciousness here. Talk to psychologists who will confirm this: The most important thing is that a law is understood by the citizen. [[Abg. Mandak: 130 people already understand!]] That's exactly what it's about at Tempo 160. The aim is to raise the awareness of road users, to show them their responsibilities: Anyone who participates in the traffic must not hurt anyone and must not hurt himself. . I mean, that's really a really g'sty thing. But what are you doing? Again, almost reflective, just scream, the penalties must be increased. [[Abg. Mandak: And above all consistently monitored!]] That doesn't solve any problem. We must reach the psyche of people, show them their responsibility, and I believe that this step is absolutely right. I say it again: The balance sheet is for the Minister of Transport! He has an excellent balance sheet to show, you can't discuss that away. That you are always against everything, we already know that – we are sure that this is the right way!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6630	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. Your preferred speaking time is 3 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6651	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! For a trial gallop of two to three months for 160 km/h on a distance of 12 km on the Tauern motorway, a change of the driving licence law is requested by the government parties. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, a logical consequence, however, 180 km/h will continue to be defined as the highest limit for the withdrawal of driving licences. However, a consent from us would be equivalent to and subsequently the acceptance of 160 km/h on this section. But this is not in our sense, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we also reject your request. Mr Missethon, you can repeat your accusations over and over again, and they will not become more correct and will continue to lack any basis. Some arguments to remember: Everything speaks against this Carinthian test track for speed 160 km/h, and there are no reasonable reasons either. It does not fit the road path – two-track and many curves – and the current accident figures speak a clear language, and this section shows the second highest level of truck traffic on the motorways in Austria. In addition, the expensive installation of a section control, which only catches the domestic tempo probes, and to think also give the bad experiences with the law-sensitive section control on the change. All these are points that are not to be washed off the table and are talking about this test section. In addition, the costs are not insignificant, from the pressure of the new legislative text to the technical measures. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's all wrong! We have always celebrated it. Don't believe all of this!]] The experiment has absolutely nothing to do with increasing road safety, Mr Wattaul! On the contrary! It clearly points to the opposite direction and therefore we reject it. [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni: No!]] We do not agree to this request for amendment of the driving licence law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6714	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6735	Mr President. My esteemed Secretary of State! After Mrs Binder's remarks, we are reminded of the machine storming of past decades. We are opposed to any technical progress, as Mr Missethon has said, today we are still on the road with the techniques of the 1970s. In the 1970s, speed was introduced for other reasons, and the energy crisis led to it at that time. Today, we want to beware of it, 2nd. In May, an attempt was made at a section on the Tauern motorway to determine whether noise can be reduced at a speed of between 80 km/h and 160 km/h by appropriate measures. The most important thing in this test is a safety factor, namely that you can arrange speed 80 in poor weather conditions and thus prevent speed 130 in poor weather conditions. That's what you and your side keep not mentioning. This also distinguishes from those headless attempts made in Vienna a few weeks ago. Let us remember the regulation of Mrs Umweltstadtratin Sima: 50 km/h from local entrances. We've all experienced it close by. Where were the accompanying measures here? Where were the supporting studies or long-term tests here? This was simply overlooked in the debate, and this regulation had to be reversed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Dear colleague Marizzi – if we are already at the pointless actions – you may well remember the saving variant about the change from the 1980s; she has already been addressed by colleague Binder. There Section Control had to be introduced, where, initially, after the dictatorship of the empty cash registers of Minister Sekanina, it had to be repaired with high expenses, and that feels every day everyone who has to do this change. That's what we're talking about. Let's look at the numbers. In 1970 we had 1 880 traffic fatalities in Austria, in the previous year 774. Of course 774 too much, but what happened in the meantime? – In the meantime, we have introduced legal regulations; I’m just saying “light a day”, multi-phase driver’s license and a lot more. On the other hand, in addition to the legal regulations, the technology has been improved, from ABS to other security devices. At that time the cars were still without headrests and safety belts; it has been made a lot. Mrs Moser, you have spoken on the motorways in the Committee on Guide Systems from 80 to 100 km/h; another step back. However, against your statement that at Tempo 160 – we speak from 80 to 160 – a project with living experimental objects is being carried out, I keep my mind. On the other hand, I am a representative of the Austrian People's Party. I will work fully in the next few weeks to ensure that in the next four years, we will not become experimental objects of a red-green government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6790	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6811	Dobro jutro! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Since 1955, the State Treaty of Vienna has been disregarded in Austria by the constitutionally securitised right for minorities. For about a year now, we have a Minister of Transport and Vice-Chancellor, who has lit the Austrian public with ideas that can only be described as abstrus, namely the lawn on Austria's roads, though only due to test routes. Parliament is immediately meeting, like today, to give this whole attitude – and that is particularly interesting to me – a legal context. As a lawyer, I am now in a misguided situation today, faced with a law that actually sets out what has been the rule in Austria up to now, namely: If you drive more than 180 km/h on a motorway, this can or will lead to the withdrawal of a driver's licence. I am, of course, just like you all are. [[Abg. May. Controller: Very good!]] Now there is a transport minister who thinks that 130 km/h is too little for him, and he would like to drive 160 km/h. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner: But not everywhere!]] But there we somehow get into conflict with the law, because the law says that only after a breach of 50 km/h the driving licence is gone. Flight is already coming together by the Austrian Parliament to immediately give this lawn – hopefully still scratch in the spirit, but in the near future completely legitimate on this Carinthian part of the motorway – legal legitimacy. [[Abg. May. Controller: No!]] Ladies and gentlemen, for a law which I fully agree with in terms of content, that if one exceeds a speed limit of more than 50 km/h, the driver's license is gone, I have to come here today and give Mr Gorbach the pleasure of taking this law once again – a law I want – so that his ideas which he has and which I deeply reject can be implemented. On the other hand, I do not have to repeat the arguments put forward here by Mrs. Dr. Moser and the colleagues from the Social Democrats, and they have been strongly presented to the public, namely, how many deaths of traffic, if you calculate the mathematical and statistically high, that means and what that means, above all, in the minds of the Rasers. Rass he I say extra without big i or small i, I don't say shavers because shavers are usually men. A steering wheel, a motor, four wheels and a man, that's a dangerous weapon, we know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: This is discrimination!]] Now, imagine what that means? – The little comfort we have is: At 180 km/h, the driver's license is gone despite everything, but at 170 km/h I can cross and endanger someone. [[Abg. Wattaul: Mr President, I am being discriminated against by the speaker!]] This leads me as a transfer to where you have not at all come to the idea of responding to the law, namely to ensure that rights that are securitised in the Austrian federal constitution, even in simple laws that grant minorities, are actually implemented in Austria. No one cares, and Mr Gorbach does not care at all. At the beginning, he noticed the ideas of the head of the Carinthian state, not having Taferln, having white taferls, taking them up, congratulating them, then somehow noticed, that does not make a slim foot, especially not in Europe and, above all, not as Minister of Transport with these austere ideas, and is then, in the truest sense of the word, a bit backsliding. Today, he is no longer here at all, where he is about 160 km/h and of course also about questions of road traffic regulations, which also fall within his area of competence, namely, in connection with the threat to the Carinthian population by the ideas of the head of state Haider, because he is indeed threatening them. Those who have followed the Council of Presidents of Khol – I think he suffers daily, Mr President, what he then threw out in Carinthia; but it was right, you meant it well, Mr President, you then gave a hint to the bilingual population: People, people, don't you like to step your rights with feet! Make an attempt to help them break through! – were very successful with what makes me conclude that our President is an excellent constitutional jury. [[Call the ÖVP: We are convinced of this!]] I would now also expect this commitment to implement the constitutionally guaranteed rights for minorities. Mr President, we could really use a advice from you to resolve this so-called local panel dispute. You have been asked to let your imagination run free, but please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6920	I just wanted to give you the advice to talk about the matter, but you came to the end of your speech anyway. The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. She's talking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6952	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the subject of the current debate on driving licence law. I am very surprised that the SPÖ and Green colleagues do not agree here to a law aimed precisely at restricting high speed road traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This shows once again: Either you operate an absolute fundamental opposition, which is also directed against road safety – or you have still not understood, despite this week-long discussion, what flexible speed devices produce and how they affect road safety. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: You don't want to understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you must already note that rigid tempo limits are not a guarantee of road safety – that is, the professionals are quite stoned and clear! Unfortunately, there is a very low acceptance in relation to rigid speed data [[Abg. Eder: Flexibility is all right!]] Over 40 percent of road users do not comply with the specified maximum speed! You have to do something about it, but not only in the field of punishment! Mrs Moser, I somehow do not fully understand your request, because the withdrawal of a driver's licence at too high speed is now possible, even stronger, and not in a premise system where one is first warned, but there is the immediate withdrawal of a driver's licence. If you drive more than 40 km/h in the area, the driver's license is gone immediately! And with what lies in between, very unpleasant fines are pronounced and you have to pay relatively much for them! – The law is more stringent now than you have requested in your request today! What reaches flexible speeds: Unfortunately, it is a sad fact that fatal road accidents are often due to the fact that the speed of travel is often not adapted to the circumstances of the roads. It may be that even driving at 80 km/h is too fast, if the road is wet and slippery, for example, or if there is fog, for example. Therefore, the future lies in a flexibilisation of speed; the pace must be adapted to the external conditions. And there may be a reduction in the maximum speed limit – and of course it must also be possible to raise the limits on some routes. Look Once again, these modern telecommunication systems are being measured continuously: whether in terms of traffic density, weather, road condition or visibility. As far as the environment is concerned, I would like to stress that very special measures can be taken to optimise traffic flow in order to reduce pollution emissions. As the Upper Austrian, I must say that I am very sorry that the Upper Austrian Government – above all the Green Environment Council, Anschober – has prevented the installation of a test track in this area in Upper Austria. [[Calls to the Greens.]] By measuring the Sattledt area, through which management of traffic flows with the help of telematic systems would have reduced pollutants and could have increased road safety. - Too bad, I can only say! Landesrat Anschober has prevented this from happening in Upper Austria, but I am glad that we have at least one forward-looking and forward-looking transport minister for whom traffic safety is top-premise and who works for flexible speed systems. Members of the Greens and the SPÖ: Look Once again, accept this law so that you, like the government parties, will vote in favour of road safety and not vote against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7049	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7072	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the driving licence law, which will be adopted by you today, provides further evidence of the “quality” of your legislation. From hurry, sloppyness, inconceivability or perhaps also on purpose, you first allowed the “Gorbach-Raser test lines” to be driven up to 210 km/h without removing the driver’s license. But you didn't do that in any way – and you now had to go back as often as in the past, row back and cover the limit for the driver's license withdrawal with 180 km/h. This, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is not a good start to the obvious single main political interest of the Minister for Transport. There are only two options: Either he has so much time to deal with such vital topics – or he wants to distract. Since we consider from the SPÖ the entire 160 km/h experiment with all the accompanying appearances and all the inaccurate drums to be really dangerous and therefore reject it, we cannot, of course, agree with today's detailed repair of a project that is generally opposed. We will not, of course, give you the Sanctus for an overall false project by consenting in a detailed question. We give a clear rejection to all marsels around the speed of 160, because for reasons of road safety and environmental protection, we have massive concerns by the SPÖ about extending the speed limit. I think there is no need for an examination and no dangerous and expensive experiments to test whether speed 160 leads to an additional risk of road safety or to increased environmental pollution or not, because the result is clear from the outset. It requires only a sound home mind to be able to estimate that more speed also means more risk that more speed will result in more spray consumption, more pollutants and higher noise pollution! In addition, the experiment in the reverse sense has already been successfully tested: Following the introduction of the tempo limits in the early 1970s – 130 km/h on motorways, 100 km/h on land roads – the number of fatalities fell dramatically. This also means that more speed means more dead; this is proven. With this test, you obviously want it to come back to more dead. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Since experts also consider this pilot attempt to be illegal, it is, I think, also little responsible, with this knowledge to suspend the alliance of a possible liability action. Since you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have recognised this problem with today's novel of the driving licence law, I suggest that you take the next sensible step and complete the 160 km/h project.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7148	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The High House! Most of all, visitors to this Parliament meeting! It really is an important issue today, and I can address my comments specifically to you. This is a very important issue, namely transport safety in Austria. Transport safety is an issue that employs and addresses us not only here in Parliament, but also on the occasion of our EU Presidency. Transport safety is one of the priority areas in the transport sector – and in this respect too, we can have good figures in Austria. If we still had 1 079 road fatalities on Austria's roads in 1999 – every dead person on Austria's roads is too many – it is worth noting that last year, i.e. 2005, only 764 road fatalities were reported. This was and is about a wealth of measures that have been taken and will be: the pre-marking system or driving with light a day, for example. In this context, however, the required vests of warning must also be mentioned. So all the measures that help to make Austria's roads safer. That's where we start – and we want to continue by saying: Modern transport technologies, the implementation of research from the transport sector should allow specifically on motorways to have the opportunity at any time to obtain information on the nature of the road, traffic conditions and any accidents. Through overhead signposts it is already on the Inntal motorway and it will be possible on the Brenner motorway in the future to inform every driver immediately and not via radio every half hour. It is precisely this application of transport technologies that makes it possible to flexibility the speeds of transport. We believe that significant progress has been made in transport technologies in the vehicle – whether the airbags are, are the ABS brake systems and the like – and that it is of course the training of vehicle drivers, but it is also increased safety measures directly on the motorways that will allow Austria's drivers to drive safer in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is then a small side aspect that we want to include because of improved technologies: the self-responsibility of the vehicle drivers. In the future, it should be possible to be strictly controlled and closely monitored by means of Section Control, by informing the vehicle driver by overhead signposts in exceptional cases – and not consistently, as always suggested – to drive speed 160 as well. Therefore, a test track will be set up to demonstrate, in the period of two to three months, under the greatest safety arrangements, whether that, of which we believe, actually occurs. This is today's issue and nothing else. It is not a guide to lawning and the like, but: Modern transport technologies, self-responsibility of the vehicle drivers should make it possible to drive up to 160 km/h in exceptional cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7227	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7250	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the opposition, you have the impression that it must be driven 160 km/h on this test track. I ask you to take note: up to 160 km/h you can drive there! And when we talk about speed 160, please also talk about the accompanying measures! I think there are very few routes on motorways that are as well monitored and controlled as this test track during this test operation. In addition to this, we are not talking about speed 160 today, but about a change of law, which will in any case continue to be withdrawn at 180 km/h or if the driving licence exceeds 180km/h, even in this test track at Tempo 160. [[Abg. Eder: That is the case now! What are you talking about?]] This clarification is an important accompanying measure to prevent fully fast driving on the test track. [[Abg. Eder: This is not a clarification!]] This test operation must also not lead to or give the impression that the lawn is made possible without penalty on this test track. Rather, this is what the Secretary of State has just said, that road users should act and drive with a lot and more of their responsibilities at an increased speed. The pace test is also linked to essential requirements, because no additional hazards to road safety may and should not arise. So: Tempo 160 applies only in the case of optimal driving conditions, which means that, in the event of poor visibility, the maximum permissible speed is reduced in poor weather conditions, indicated by traffic impact systems. In addition, a truck overload ban is provided on this test track and a section control system is set up. It is also very important that we examine the environmental impact. Noise and pollutant emissions must be identified and evaluated. Finally, the aim of this experiment is to determine whether, at variable speed limits, the performance of the motorways and the traffic flow is improved. So if you talk about speed 160 and about this change of law, you have to include these accompanying measures and, in any case, involve that it is necessary to take into account the state of today's technology in vehicle construction and, of course, also the road maintenance measures that have been set up. I think it's definitely worth an attempt to introduce this test track for speed 160.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7301	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7323	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Members of the House as well as listeners! We need good nerves to keep up with what you want to do here all the time, namely a measure that serves exclusively and only to the election campaign of your Minister Gorbach, to sell us as a transport safety measure. [[Abg. Wattaul: Because we have been discriminated against!]] There you need extremely good nerves to keep it going. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am surprised that the ÖVP is participating in this game! Here, election campaign at state costs with oranger bordering, where we are told that no one will be subject to speed restrictions anyway. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Because it's not true!]] That's why we'll put them up right now. That's like saying, The “g’sundes waxes” we start again, because people cut their children anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: You're for drugs, too!]] By the way, this is an economic nonsense, which has long been known. The best speed that can be driven on motorways is 100 km/h, which is known for a long time, which is economically the most meaningful speed. [[Abg. Wattaul: The safest speed is zero!]] I am surprised that an economic party like the ÖVP does not know and takes into account long ago. What is the logical consequence of Tempo 160, we now know: A newly amended driving licence law we now need to change again, you will agree to this change. [[Abg. Wattaul: Are you light-seen or what?]] Changes in the law in the half-term, which – as a colleague from the SPÖ has already meant – says a lot about the quality of your laws. By the way, the 160 km/h will not remain the top speed either, because it is an average speed as you know. The current application is the best proof that it will not remain at 160 km/h. For example, there is also a good record here of how much more money alone will cost this sample track, because two such stations have to be built in a row. [[the speaker keeps the document up to date]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Transport safety costs money!]] In other words, the public sector has to bear not only the costs of this unscrupulous advertising campaign, but also the additional costs it entails. Also an economic nonsense or not, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ==References== Last December, in the debate on the Gorbach-Missquauen proposal which we tabled at the time, Minister Gorbach and party colleagues like you, Mr Wattaul, were still in agreement, the 160 km/h will remain 160 km/h. [[Abg. Wattaul: Control!]] This will not be possible, as I just did, and above all: How will you get people to reduce the pace from themselves to 130 km/h after the test course? [[Abg. Wattaul: Easy to create a Taferl!]] Anyone driving on motorways knows how difficult it is to reduce to a lower speed after a longer route, where you have driven fast. Maybe for You don't, maybe you can do this automatically, but I don't think so, because in the truck sector, I've also experienced the fact that there's often fast driving, traffic safety is not fast. [[Abg. Wattaul: They can't drive too fast! That's an absolute lie!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The request of the government parties confirms: Tempo 180 is called senseless shaving and Tempo 160 is traffic-proof. So: 20 km/h is obviously the difference. This is probably not possible, nor can it be understood by the population. We will certainly not be involved in this incredible error in terms of road safety, in a year in which the government parties during the Austrian Presidency want to devote a broad focus to transport safety. That's an absolute embarrassment!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7504	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a consistent view and a decision in the Bureau that intermediate calls are only made from their own place and are not in order! Mr Wattaul, please. The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7529	Madam President. Estimated State Secretary! High house! It's no secret, we from the SPÖ were always against these test lines. Mr Kößl, the driver's license withdrawal has always been valid at speed 180, as it is now. If the speed limit is 130 km/h and it is 50 km/h more, the driving licence is now withdrawn. That is, you have to pull the line today and bathe out what you have incubated yourself! Mr Missethon, the transport reports have been clarified by the Transport Club and the Transport Safety Board, the environmental impact has been clarified by both institutions and the performance of the motorways has been clarified as well. All experts say that for our motorways due to the curve radius and due to the circumstances, the tempo-130 rule is the best regulation. That means, what are we going to change? – We also agree with the opinion of both major racing clubs, who say: There are more accidents at Tempo 160, more CO2 emissions and more noise, and there are really no benefits. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true! Then look at Germany!]] Mr Mainoni, you said that the test lines and security issues will be important within the framework of the European Union. But I can't imagine that the tempo 160 rule is important. That's about as if a wheel falls in Beijing. Then we also have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the tempo 160 rule is also a distraction maneuver or a gag or a double game. Because you always say the ÖVP act carefully, the streets have changed dramatically, the car technology has changed massively, I remember: Why does the Ministry of the Interior apply such posters along the highways? [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There it says: Stay alive, get out of the gas! – And here you decide Tempo 160. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I don't want to say anything about these posters yet! [[The speaker shall keep another document up to date.]] Everything makes sense and is all right. And then, at one time, because the Minister has a nice change at some point, Parliament has to adopt ongoing legislative amendments, and then we come to see that both major racing clubs are against it. If you really want to be safe, then you should create safety test routes, ladies and gentlemen. I only think, Mr Rädler, of the section on Wöllersdorf–Leobersdorf. There are accidents every day. Is it not possible to use the telematics there to at least conclude the topic positively, and not just force these senseless test lines? - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7585	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7609	Madam President. High house! With today's novelle, which we cannot agree with, you will once again recognize the priorities you have in transport policy in Austria. Austria is already a final highlight of transport safety in the EU. That is, in no other EU country has any accident in relation to the population, so many people on the streets. And in 40 percent of all cases, excessive speed is the cause. And now go here and break a 160-km/h debate from the fence! Even if you only planned this speed for the so-called test operation on a test track, you know that only the public announcement of Tempo 160 will give more gas on Austria's roads. I particularly address the group of young car drivers, i.e. car drivers up to 25 years. They are at the highest risk of accident because young drivers simply tend to lawn to gas. This risk group is further encouraged by your plans and the public debate about speed 160 that has been triggered by them in their behaviour on the streets. This is irresponsible and certainly the wrong path you take as the Ministry of Transport! According to a VCÖ study, the accident risk increases by 46 percent when the rate limit is increased from 130 km/h to 160 km/h. Do you really think that the rapid repair of the driving licence law can change any of these worrying forecasts? - I doubt it very much. A public test track for Tempo 160 means nothing but consciously taking the risk that people can be seriously or even fatally injured. At Tempo 160, for example, a passenger car consumes 27 percent more fuel than at Tempo 130 – only if you look at the short section of the line. If one were to look at it all year round, this section would have had 30 000 tonnes more carbon dioxide emissions behind it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It doesn't have to be driven so fast!]] These figures speak for themselves and should lead to a more reasonable transport policy for you, but they do not speak for Mr Vice-Chancellor. The problem of fine dust will become more dramatic. Tempo limits of 100 km/h on motorways will belong to the past, the countries are in every respect through politics – through your policies! – hands tied. When to Become You finally realize that your transport policy is going in a completely wrong direction? The list that proves this wrong direction is long enough: from the demolition of the track to the failure of the Semmering base tunnel. Your commitment to Tempo 160 is really wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7643	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1274 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the prevention of irresponsible lawns (“at least 160 must remain 160!”). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and rejected. [[11:18:16]] 2. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1262, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002, the ASFINAG Act and the ASFINAG Authorization Act 1997 (1275 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7716	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7746	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The most important part of today's law package for me as a Tyrolean is that the ASFINAG now reduces 20 percent of toll revenues via the burner on the Brenner line to finance the construction costs for the Brenner base tunnel. In this way, we are entering completely new territory in Europe. For the very first time, a cross-financing model – money from the road to the rail – is actually implemented in a corridor. We can all be proud of this transport policy and environmentally important process and solution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also appropriate to say thank you once. Thanks to 15 years of efforts, also started under Minister One, but then successfully continued by our Federal Chancellor Schüssel, our Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Ursula Plassnik, and Mr. State Secretary Kukacka, who made a strong effort at European level to make Austrian transport and environmental policy a European transport and environmental policy. And I also expressly thank Transport Minister Gorbach, who has achieved considerable success in this regard. It is important that we move traffic on the rails in those important and central corridors. The Brenner is still that Alpine crossing, which has to cope with most traffic within Europe by a distance – around a multiple time – in the North-South direction. It can also be expected from all traffic forecasts that traffic traffic will continue to rise via the burner in transport, as well as in passenger transport. It is therefore necessary that this traffic burden is no longer taken to the streets in narrow Alpine valleys, but shifted to the rails. On the other hand, it is necessary to provide for transport-moving measures in a number of ways. Too high tolls: The EU has now agreed that we can really use the higher Brennermaut when devoting these tolls to the rails. – This is done with today’s law in a first step, before, Mrs Moser, the EU’s new toll directive enters into force! We are doing this at the very first possible time, in agreement with the EU, in a way which is permitted by European law, because one states: It was said that this toll height is allowed when a certain proportion of up to 25 percent actually flows into the rail. For the first section, we have already implemented this. This cannot be illegal in Europe, it is coordinated and a successful concept. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] From this year on, €19 million will be set aside for the construction costs of the Brenner Base Tunnel! Mrs Moser, you made a broadcast after the Transport Committee, saying: Then the basic tunnel would have to be financed by the end of the millennium. Yes, of course! It is totally blue-eyeed to believe that only the tolls would have to finance such a century project! It is also completely blue-eyed to assume that rail infrastructures, which last for 100 years like the old Brenner line, are expected to be in a business-friendly, short time frame! Transport and environmental policies have nothing to do with business accounts. A country often has to take over money to protect its population – this federal government and the ÖVP are ready to do so – in favour of the Tyrolean population, in favour of a shift from transport to rail. [[Abg. Eder: But not at the post!]] Only then, when powerful infrastructures really exist in Tyrol will it be possible to actually shift traffic to the rails, because, if there is nothing there, where traffic is shifted, will it be possible to empty and, of course, rejected by our European partners. I am therefore grateful for the fact that this path, which has always been the Tyrolean path, is carried by the National Council, and I hope we continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7798	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7819	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! First of all, I should like to say that we in the Committee have discussed this subject very intensively, as a matter of ASFINAG law and novelle, and that the Socialist Group in the Committee voted against these proposals, which we have promised to examine some of the things that have moved us to oppose. After an in-depth examination, we then came to the view that we will now give the whole package the consent. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] I can also justify why we do this. First of all, on the question of the toll supervisory bodies: The toll supervisory bodies will, of course, also receive after this new rules are much clearer than previously. To this end, we have produced an opinion by Professor Brno and Professor Hauser. A number of facts contained in this opinion have now been realized. That is why I think that this is also a reasonable matter and, in this form, a reasonable cooperation. Secondly, however, we need to know – and this is the point that we still want to highlight a little more precisely, but perhaps one of the Secretaries of the State can say something about it: Of course, the toll supervisory bodies now also have the possibility, when controlling the vignette, if it is not available on the car, to deposit either 120 € in their discretion – and the replacement vignette is then valid until, I think, at midnight of the next day, and then you have to buy a vignette – or they have the possibility to refund an ad. However, the advertising refund means €4,000 and is much higher than this € 120. That is why we also need to look at this very carefully, and I would like to know how this will now be handled in the future. Another point that always strikes is the fact that toll supervisors have the 120 € penalty even if, for example, drivers, like Simmering, drive only from the district to the gas station at a gas station, buy any food, return to the district and not use the motorway – then they are already punished at the gas station! I do not think this makes sense for the economy or the operators there. One should tell these toll supervisory bodies when one should really punish and how the whole thing is going to happen. In this area, I think, a little more training is needed. I would ask the Secretary of State if we now also agree that we are working to take these training measures accordingly. Thirdly, I would like to say on the question of the Brenner-Bahn tunnel and what Mr Hakl has already done before: high-performance infrastructure in Tyrol – of course! But I say: powerful infrastructures also throughout Austria and not only in Tyrol! We also have our hands full to do to develop the East-West infrastructure accordingly. But we are very much in favour – and have always said so – of supporting cross-financing from the road to the railway. We support this also in this case and in the form of how it happens that a provision is being made within the framework of the ASFINAG balance sheets in order to enable cross-financing to go to the railway. The following remains to be ensured: The EU Road Costs Directive still needs to be designed in such a way that this is also possible within the framework of the EU Directive. – But it’s right and good if we start to choose this procedure now. In this sense, I should like to recommend that my group give its approval to a calm conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7880	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7902	Madam President. The Secretary of State! Another clear success of Minister Gorbach in the EU: He's convinced that we can now make cross-financing. Mrs Hakl thanked her for the reigns. But I have to tell you: You also have to thank the transport companies because they will pay for this. This should also be mentioned here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is important not only to defuse the truck, but also to say quite clearly that this revenue, which is to be financed cross-financed, will mainly bear the transport industry. I would like to thank you here from the speaker's desk and perhaps also ask for a little understanding of this economy, which, of course, is on the way to the service of the population and does not take vacation trips. What I am very pleased with is also the understanding of social democracy that you now agree to this law. Especially in questions of toll, that was not always the case! We can remember: In 1999, when I came to Parliament, a system was introduced – an open toll system with 1,500 tolls, where the trucks had to leave the road – which was then said to be the best system. And then when we introduced the new road pricing system, it was said to be a stone-time model. Today we see that this policy, made by this government, was really a right policy with revenue. And one thing you have to say: We not only build motorways, we can also finance them. For the first time, this government has succeeded in making a transport plan to represent it financially. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: We already introduced that in 1996! You weren't even in Parliament!]] It wasn't always like that. We have taken over the debts of the first generation of motorways in the ASFINAG, and this should be said to the population. We not only build motorways, we not only build railway infrastructure, but we also see how to pay and finance this in the future – not like past governments that have only accumulated debt mountains. You have to say this very clearly here in this room. [[Abg. Eder: The debt has increased since 2002!]] But despite everything, I thank the Social Democracy for finally understanding that this federal government is making a real transport policy that is financially and truly playful, and one can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7964	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Moser. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7985	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to cross-subsidisation, that is to say, road usage charges are used to improve and expand railway lines, we have always been to do so. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: Ah so?]] – Yes, of course! The present version of the Federal Roads Act is indeed an example where one can be for that, but under the ASFINAG Act and the ASFINAG empowerment Act there are legal difficulties and there are in-depth limitations. First of all, to the legal difficulties. – Mrs Hakl, you said that we can now save to finance the Brenner Base Tunnel. We could have saved since 1999 on the basis of this EU Road Costs Directive, which is being used here. This would be the cross-subsidisation that you have always disputed and is possible on the basis of the current Road Costs Directive since 1999. What you did was: save nothing, demand false tolls, risk court lawsuits, advance repayments to the yielders. This policy is unfortunately being extended with this bill, which is under discussion today. Read only the comments of the Brenner-Eisenbahngesellschaft, which writes: The scheme appears to be completely missing, and the proposed provision thus proves to be inappropriate to effectively oppose any further recovery claims from freight companies. – Please, the experts write that! Or read also the opinion of the Office of the Tyrolean Government: A provision should now be introduced which also provides for financing for other routes, cross-financing also for other routes. – This is recommended by the Tyrolean state government! No, you are making your own law, which is tailored to the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is the EU's legal position on toned legs, which is why the fans can sue again, because you only claim the 25 percent additions on the track again, and this scaffolding price is not accepted by the EU. With this, you are putting us on the silver tablet, because we cannot account for the illegal action of the EU. We want – and this is also a concern of the Tyroleans – cross-financing on other routes, too, because there are people who suffer from the same burden in the Tauerntal valley, who are burdened by the Pyrn–Schober line. We also need cross-subsidisation in the East. We also need the Paris–Bratislava–Budapest route. All of this is mentioned in this official opinion. That is why we shall have a separate vote, with the agreement of Article 1 and Article 3. We will vote against the financing of the Brenner Base Tunnel by this missing cross-subsidisation, because we do not want to risk once again becoming a mockery not only of the media in Austria, but also of the international one, and because we also believe that we need, in principle, an overall financing concept for these Alpine transversals. We already have the opportunity, Mrs Hakl, to transport the train via the Brenner goods to Italy. There are even private enterprises that are relatively forced to move forward on the rail, which are quite growing. We should use this opportunity first and now use the means to support these rail transports. And we should finally see that we have a financing concept for the sintered Brenner base tunnel, which – I have to repeat this time and again – unfortunately will not be used, according to Progtrans study, unless the road becomes more expensive. The current surcharges, 25 percent, are too low to move the truck drivers, to use the train to bring the shift of traffic from road to rail through the sintering tunnel. That is why we also reject our attitude, because we want an overall concept for the entire Alpine region, a financing concept for the Brenner Base Tunnel, to have an EU-wide clear regulation. A provision of the ASFINAG for the cross-subsidisation of rail installations could have already been made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8025	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8046	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This broad majority for this law is gratifying. Cross-financing is correct and important. And we've heard it today: Austria has made significant progress in terms of traffic in many areas over the past five years: on the one hand, in the area of safety, where all efforts have been made to make our roads safer – the falling number of road fatalities and accidents clearly demonstrates this – and on the other hand in the area of road and rail expansion – it has never been invested as much money in road and rail as under this Federal Government – and of course also in terms of efficiency and implementation, which is implemented by the ASFINAG, for example, by the motorway toll system. The toll system in Austria has proved to be very reliable since its introduction in 2004. €1.2 billion in revenue from this system will be invested directly by ASFINAG this year in the development, maintenance and operation of the high-level road network. And here too, the comparison with our German neighbours makes us sure; this comparison is very popular in recent times and is often put to effort. The Austrian solutions are also here, like for example, economic data and employment policy, clearly forward and thus better and safer, so again a point victory in the direct country comparison. Austria has the better solution here, as far as the toll system is concerned, towards the Germans who have a significantly higher error rate. New efforts to simplify this toll system, such as the interoperability directive, are to be welcomed, and it is also evident here that the EU is convinced of the reliability of the Austrian system. For our system, too, the fact that toll systems are in use in almost all European countries where electronic decoration is carried out or planned is based on the technical principle used in Austria. It is gratifying – I have already mentioned it – that the cross-financing for the Brenner Base Tunnel is also carried out with this template. These measures, such as investment in rail transport by the government, once again prove the prudent and far-sighted transport policy of the Federal Government. We are on the road and on the track: the right way for a real transport policy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8079	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8101	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! It has already been said that the novelle to the Federal Roads toll law now in fact brings a concreteization and a decreed empowerment of the toll control bodies. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I already find it difficult to outsource and privatize increasingly high-level functions: from the state to private “sheriffs”. We know that the ways in which the “sheriffs” deal with humans do not always correspond to normal ways of dealing and often leave to wish for courtesy. There are some complaints, a training is indeed appropriate. My previous speaker, Mr Eder, has already pointed out the problem of the large margin of discretion between € 120 for a replacement toll and up to €4,000 for an advertisement. I think it is this path that has been found, but one thing I would like to say already as a major problem, as the professional drivers are affected by this regulation of tolls. There are more and more procedures that show that professional drivers who have paid replacement toll because the toll was not paid, then this issue is deducted as an administrative penalty from the monthly wage and they have to understand what the car owners would have to pay. This is an unsustainable situation for workers in this area, and I hope that there will soon be improvements and changes. But what I would like to address on the occasion – I would like to repeat it once again – is a missing novel of the Federal Road Law. It is known that the A 23, the most frequented road in Austria, has to be renovated in 2009 at the latest in the area between Hansen Curve and Sterngasse. If the most busy road in Austria needs to be renovated, this means that infinity of traffic flows, large traffic flows need to be diverted, and this is only possible within the high-level road network. It's not about any streets in favourites or Liesing. This is really relevant from my point of view. The S 1 will be handed over to traffic this year. We then need to realize a clamp between the S 1 and the A 23, which can then serve as a valve during the redirect phase. Only then will traffic be somehow under control, and the eastern region of Austria will not be thrown into a general traffic chaos. It cannot be that one does not force the expansion of public transport in the southern part of Vienna – we know that the modal split in the south of Vienna is particularly bad – nor does it create the necessary road links. All this can only lead to a chaos, and I would They really urge you to finally submit a novel to the Federal Road Law, in which this span between S 1 and A 23 is also foreseen. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8143	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8164	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bayr, as You probably also know for yourself, the Federal Road Law is being negotiated and is in the final stage. [[Abg. Eder: It's been a bit long in the final stage! You won't be there anymore, I think.]] So this Federal Road Law will certainly be here in the House for debate in the very near future. Ladies and gentlemen! For the European electronic toll service, it is essential that the systems in the countries are compatible with each other. This means that toll-booking must function smoothly across borders. It is therefore the objective of this EU Directive, this interoperability directive, which is implemented with today's novel, to work together in the technical field, in the field of procedures, as well as in the area of legal frameworks. In addition to satellite location and mobile communications, the Austrian system of microwave technology is proposed for the technical solutions. Even though the SPÖ is constantly trying to make the toll system bad for trucks – my colleague Herbs, who is setting up his special theories, is unfortunately not there now that he could discuss with me – proves the reality that this system is very, very successful and that the high reliability of this technology has proved to be really proven. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true! The implementation!]] Figures speak for themselves: In the week, transactions of over €10 million will be carried out, and in total, more than €550 million of transactions have been successfully carried out. This means that this system has really proved itself very well, very quickly in the implementation phase, and that it still has a very good performance throughout its implementation and therefore enjoys a very high acceptance. This also means that the prell rate at the truck toll is very low. In contrast, it had to be noted by the ASFINAG that the number of vignette probes in 2005 unfortunately increased significantly. We have an increase of more than 20 percent, and therefore we see it as very beneficial that an efficient vignette review will be possible in the future. This amendment is also intended to relieve road surveillance bodies and to allow for video surveillance, automatic monitoring of compliance with Vignette obligations. Ladies and gentlemen! The proceeds from the toll revenue, which can be seen – over €1.2 billion last year – are used exclusively for the expansion, maintenance and operation of the high-level road network. What has been built here in recent years on infrastructure shows a comparison: In the years 1995 to 1999, €300 to €400 million were used per year, while in the years 2002 to 2006 over €5 billion were used to build infrastructure. This is evidenced by the very forward-looking and good transport policy operated by this government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, this money will not only be invested in the expansion of roadways, but also in noise protection measures, environmental measures, especially housing, which will also improve the quality of life of people. As the Upper Austrian, I would particularly like to mention the housing in Linz am Bindermichl, which has provided many people with an increase in their quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen! Investments in the mobility of people, which are possible due to this infrastructure offensive, but also the positive impact on jobs and employment in Austria, show that investment in infrastructure is expected, and therefore we support all measures that can improve the efficiency of the control of toll systems, which allow this funding to be financed at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8223	The next speaker was Mrs Restererer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8247	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I am now referring to the toll receipts, not to the other parts of the present law, since we have already explained that we can broadly agree to this. 20 percent of the toll revenue, which is about €19 million a year – about which has already been spoken – to provide a reserve in the future, is actually not possible from now on or through the wildly determined struggle of the Federal Minister, that has actually been possible with the old road cost directive already. We could have saved a lot longer. This is also clearly stated in the explanatory notes to the present law. However, as Mrs Moser has pointed out, the Tyrolean Government also complains that this regulation is too narrow. - Why? Although the new Road Costs Directive is not yet being published, we already know a lot about what is inside it, and we also know that under the old regulation other rail axes would have already been feasible with cross-financing, such as the Paris - Bratislava railway axis on Strasbourg and Vienna. The Prague-Linz axis would also be an important East-West connection, as would the Gdansk-Vienna axis via Brno and Bratislava. I am particularly interested in the expansion of the Tauernbahn, which has now been postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. The anrainers are left unclear when the tunnel solution will actually come in the Gastein valley. It is criticised in the opinion of the Government of Tyrol that, with a more general formulation, these further railway projects could have been financed or the proportions of tolls could have already been saved. That's why we ask ourselves the question: What will it be like to finance the Austrian TEN projects? Will this finally be a priority within the Austrian Presidency to clarify these questions and also EU co-financing? Because we fear that important connections will eventually be sacrificed again, because the money will simply be used for the Brenner base tunnel and for nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8284	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8305	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Roads Act, I believe, brings us many advantages. The cooperation of electronic toll systems within the EU will be improved. A European toll service for the entire road network is being set up, and the freedom of the Member States is not affected. This means a great relief of the executive through automatic vignette controls. And it is important that the ASFINAG is also given the opportunity to carry out automatic controls. In future, vignettes can also be controlled by means of video surveillance. Toll supervisory bodies shall have the right to withdraw a money amount in the event of vignette checks. And foreign vignette sinners can be better persecuted with the help of this bill. This replacement toll is contrary to decisions in administrative proceedings to the effect that German authorisation holders are in any case entitled to grant a replacement toll. In this case, it should be noted And there's a cracking point. There is no guarantee for the secure dispatch of the written payment request. This means that no criminal proceedings against foreign rulers can be initiated. As a result, a lot of money is missing from the state, and we needed this money urgently in order to implement long-term infrastructure projects. An important example in my region is the expansion of the B 317. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! It must be driven forward as soon as possible. And it is not enough to comfort the people here constantly, to comfort them for years, but here I really call for compliance with the timetable and the rapid implementation of the extension of the route from Judenburg to Scheifling and also for the immediate inclusion of the Scheifling to Klagenfurt part in the general traffic plan. We need these infrastructure projects, so that this region will continue to be an attractive economic location in the future, and that we can also counteract all the forecasts and all the trends that we are predicted to face, i.e. that the migration will be curtailed accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only through these infrastructure projects that we can maintain local services and thus jobs in the regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8345	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8366	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In my view, the current novelle of the Toll Act shows that the novelle continues to clarify the situation in particular of the truck drivers who are employees of cargo companies. The cashing of the replacement toll directly from the truck handle must have an end. Although entrepreneurs clearly have to stand up for the toll as lorry owners, the ASFINAG supervisory bodies, called the Tout-Sheriffs, usually use the drivers first. In the case of freight carriers with payment difficulties and in the event of disputes with the boss, the driver may at best recover the money for the toll he has already paid after lengthy court proceedings. The ASFINAG has sufficient information and opportunities to get the toll directly from the entrepreneurs, as I mean. High house! Since 2000, the tax, tax and toll burden on drivers has increased year after year: from 7.46 billion in 2000 to 10.06 billion euros in 2004. However, in 2004 the Federal Government provided only €2.8 billion for road construction. That is why I am all the more pleased with Mr Gorbach's statement in the Committee on Transport that the implementation of the Traisental-Schnellstraße S 34 is now expected to take place in the near future. As you know, the B 20, the Mariazeller Straße, no longer has any capacity reserves and is really extremely accidental due to the high load. Several deaths occur on this road each year. Therefore, the construction of the Traisental-Schnellstraße is also more than necessary as a discharge road for the B 20, for the Mariazeller Straße. High house! In my view, however, the expansion of public transport, which is intended to serve the commuters for the way to the workplace, is also very important. The question arises, for example, of the directing effect of the government. Parties should have repeatedly put into play driving power-dependent car tolls if there are no alternatives to the car for the affected car drivers due to the thinning of public transport investments. From my point of view, a car toll would be a purely off-line, especially for the commuters, and it would once again be an additional cross-financing of the truck traffic, and the traffic would then shift to the residential areas. In this context, I therefore also call for the maintenance and expansion of public transport, in particular by-cars, in order to be able to offer, above all, an alternative to passenger car transport.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8411	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8433	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With the amendments to the Federal Roads Act and the ASFINAG Act, we achieve that we can, among other things, install a networkable, interoperable European toll system. I believe that it is absolutely necessary for such a system to be created, on the one hand, to be easy to handle. However, I also believe that a networked European toll is quite simply necessary in order to avoid distortions in transport costs and to achieve more cost-truth in transport as a whole. However, I would also like to point out that it is not only a matter of observing the obligation of costs in terrestrial transport, i.e. on rail and road, but that this would also be necessary in air transport, in shipping, in transcontinental transport. In this context, I would simply point out the proposal made by Chancellor Schüssel in his speech to the European Parliament that taxation in this area should come and that we should discuss this more intensively. I don't think there's anything to add to it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I believe that this is necessary not only for reasons of competition, but also simply because I am convinced that overnational tasks should also be financed by transnational taxes and that not all of this can come from national budgets. But thus back to the ASFINAG and the success story of the ASFINAG. I believe that the task the ASFINAG was set up will be perfectly fulfilled by this one. We have seen this both in the introduction of the toll system and in the monitoring of the toll system, where we now also have the possibility that foreign tolls can also be brought to account accordingly. The ASFINAG with its daughter ÖSAG is also doing a great job in the field of projecting and trassing new high-ranking street trains, such as the S7 in southern Burgenland, in good coordination with the interests of the population. The ASFINAG is also consistently working on the need to catch up, which we have in the area of high-level links with our northern and eastern neighbours. And I think it has been mentioned a number of times that the ASFINAG also has additional tasks in the house. by transferring further high-ranking road trains with the new Federal Road Act. What we are doing with these legislative amendments today is simply allowing the work of ASFINAG to continue, to a greater extent, and I am pleased in this context that the Social Democrats too will give their consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8490	Mr Bauer came next. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8511	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I believe that this matter has now become a consensus matter after long discussions, and I would add that, of course, it is a principle discussion when it comes to transferring sovereign rights to other institutions or making provisions that make sense for future financing, but which are not covered by European law, but only by oral commitments. I should like to say to a colleague who said that the debt from road construction should have been taken over by the ASFINAG and now a completely different era has arrived: In fact, it is true that 6 billion have been taken over and that with 8 billion you are now on the way to 13 billion €. This should not be forgotten in this discussion. However, at the meeting of the Transport Committee, many agenda items were also postponed by majority decision, including as important projects in the eastern region as the B 303, the highway, projects in Vienna or Traisental – all important roads. In principle, I wonder: Why do decisions on roads, which are generally recognised as important, have to be postponed over and over again, and that since 2003, only in order to have a stage in order to give one of the heads of state or another the opportunity to get a final approval? I say quite clearly here: For example, we have been working for the B 303 since the 1990s, since the opening of the Iron Curtain. There were many discussions before, but we are now in the 17th century. Year after the fall of the Iron Curtain. In this context, my question is: Can anyone here tell me where the infrastructure investment in the eastern region has been made so that the development of our neighbouring countries and the growing economic relations can be taken into account accordingly? I think it is irresponsible – and I say this very clearly – to reduce only from tactical considerations the concern to cut down the responsible Member, and then to say sometime after 13, 14 years: It's important anyway, and we see that too! I also have to say, with regard to Mr Gorbach, that I think it is a strange view of a minister if he says in the press that there would have been no concrete negotiations if a Member spoke. A Member of Parliament cannot hold “negotiations”, but he can give an advance to represent his concerns from the region at all political levels accordingly. If such statements, which are obviously wrong in terms of competence, are made by a minister, this shows what political game is being driven there. I believe that this is an unworthy game, and I hope that, in the end, decisions will be taken in Bälden for the major concerns of infrastructure development, which is urgently needed for the Eastern and Lower Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8554	Next, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8575	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with important changes in the basics of financing our road system or our road transport system. This has already been done by many of my previous speakers. It is also important to point out that it is those foundations that have been created over the past five years that have made it possible and financially possible to expand the transport system both on the road and on the rail. That is why we also need to see the failures committed in the past, for example in the ten years from 1990 to 1999 under a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and a Social Democratic Finance Minister. Only the sums invested show: In these ten years, 1990 to 1999, there were 13.7 billion; in the ten years from 2000 to 2009, there will be a total of 23 billion, almost double! We need this important infrastructure, too, and it is nice that the Social Democrats and also my previous speakers now realize that this is necessary. Only: No one has anything to talk about, neither the citizens nor the economy! [[Abg. You must first prove that what you say keeps!]] If we are only talking about the expansion of the infrastructure if, as Mr Bauer did earlier, we have only decided on resolutions for 17 years, then unfortunately we cannot use any of these roads.No one can drive on a resolution, that is the problem. [[Abg. Grade: What have the Transport Ministers said over the last ten years? Who has put the transport ministers in the last ten years?]] And – I have already said it – we had more than ten years under Social Democratic Chancellors time to implement it. Why didn't it happen? Only implementation will benefit us something – not resolutions, not motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Grade:... Ministers have been resistant to resolutions!]] They don't help anyone at all, but they only produce paper. That is why I am glad that in the negotiations of the last half-year or three-quarters of the year, we have also achieved that the important infrastructure projects, especially road transport projects for Lower Austria – I may mention the three: the Marchfeld-Schnellstraße, the B 303, which are both the gap towards the east and the north, and also the B 334 – are now in the final negotiations and, as Vice-chanc Gorbach has also noted in the Transport Committee, are really on the right track and the funding by the Minister of Finance has been secured in the meantime. We will therefore also have and will be able to decide in the next few weeks – I am convinced – an amendment of the Federal Roads Act in the High House to create the basis for the expansion of these road links. That was also the reason why a motion for a resolution has now been postponed to the end: because no one has anything at all, as has already been done, from a resolution and from formal discussion, but only from the fact that we also build these road links. And for this the first condition is first of all a change in the Federal Road Law. I am convinced that we will have this here in the next few weeks, and I am already looking forward to the broad agreement also for these important Lower Austrian projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8638	Next, Mr Prehauser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8659	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Our Transport Spokesman Kurt Ederhat explains and explains that we are carrying this novelle today. In principle, we Socialists will contribute to every improvement in the law if it appears plausible to us and, accordingly, will also be explained and “geared” with our ideas, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner and representatives of the ÖVP]] – I find it remarkable that you are now at least smiling. You will probably go inside and yet realize that you are too little involved in your lonely decisions – and then, of course, we cannot go along. [[Abg. Neudeck: It is always lonely at the top!]] But if they include the right level of joint debate, then we must also win for laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Kurt Eder also encouraged the training of ASFINAG employees, who “absorbed” the toll – under quotation marks; They know what I mean – to push ahead a little. That seems to me to be important, because sometimes things that are not comprehensible happen. I live in Wals-Siezenheim. Anyone who knows a little bit, knows that's near the Walserberg, two, three kilometers from the border. When you enter Austria on the Landesstraße, you still have exactly one kilometer to get to the motorway. Previously there is a gas station, there you can buy this toll pickerl. And after 11 kilometers, you can leave the highway for the first time, or at a shopping center after two kilometers. These are popular places where controls are carried out, and this is also true: If it is necessary to stick to motorway pickerl, then this must also be observed. Only: What often happens there for dramas with drivers who bought the pickerl a minute ago or two minutes ago, just because it sticks in a place where the controller does not like it! – This is a bit bitter pill, especially since it can be assumed that foreigners do not necessarily know where the Austrian legislator would like these to be placed. It should be a little more sensitive to be able to live up to our reputation as a tourist country. Ladies and gentlemen, the short period of time only allows us to point out that the Social Democrats are now faced with any desire for a car toll on motorways – and also on national roads, as you can read. We keep it here with the cost truth: Those who use the infrastructure best and also use it more often should be asked to check it out. Mr Wattaul, since you asked us to thank the transport companies: I learned something about it. I did not know that transport operators are paying tolls from their profits and not passing on to consumers. If that's the case, I'd really like to thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The profits they also have from the consumer! – That’s very red-eyed what you say!]] - Dear friend! We'll pay this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8735	Mr Mag. Mainoni. – Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8756	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we have found another agreement: that, as Mr Prehauser has just said, the SPÖ is also against a passenger car show in Austria. Another point, therefore, where we obviously agree and can also work together. The Federal Government is not even thinking about taking such measures into consideration! Ladies and gentlemen, let me, however, because some of the legal questions raised by Mr Eder, in particular, are unexplained, let me briefly come to the subject of replacement tolls. The fact is that toll supervisory bodies, which are competent by law, do not impose punishment, but call for a replacement to be paid. You have to pay attention to this very precisely, strictly legally. That means: The vehicle driver, caught by the toll supervisor, does not have to pay a toll, must pay a toll rate and with this 120 € at the same time is also entitled to drive corresponding toll routes. There is therefore nothing other than some type of organ punishment. Something else is, of course, the administrative procedure in case of non-disbursement of this replacement toll – which, by the way, the toll supervisory bodies have to ask for service instructions at any rate; so, in practical terms, there is no discretion, but the toll supervisory bodies have to ask to pay a replacement toll. And in the ordinary procedure only, in the administrative procedure, there will be a penalty if no toll has been paid. There is a maximum penalty framework of €4,000, but this penalty ceiling is actually imposed in practice, as we know, as well as never. In practice, it is around €400 to 500 – i.e. the minimum amount – and it is not rare that these heights are reduced by half once again using the extraordinary mitigation provision. – So far to topic one. Theme two – this has also been mounted by Mr Eder, Member of the Transport Officer –: the driving of rest sites, which can also be reached via the road system that is not compulsory. This is just a matter of practical difficulty. First of all, with regard to the legal situation: This area of traffic is a major transport area, as well as access and departures to motorways and highways. That's the legal situation. Practically, the following problem arises: Toll supervisory bodies, of course, usually check the resting traffic for safety considerations. Toll supervisory bodies are therefore located in the parking spaces at rest sites and check that the toll has also been properly paid because it is traffic-related. Technically simple and better is to check the resting traffic than the flowing one. And there is the problem that it could no longer be distinguished if someone who does not have to go to the rest area from a road network that is not mutated doesn't pay toll. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that I am very pleased that, as well as the remarks of Mr Prehauser and Mr Eder, Mr Eder, there was still agreement on such important legislative instruments. We will strengthen our efforts to meet our task of information in relation to the opposition as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8804	The next speaker was Mr Kainz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8826	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr Prehauser said that the SPÖ agreed with useful legislative instruments. – If these are not empty words, then the SPÖ would have to get up more often, because I think there are a lot of sensible legislative frameworks in which we are discussing in advance, also in the Committee – ladies and gentlemen Eder nodd, or in part, also negative – quite objectively come closer, but which the SPÖ ultimately does not agree with. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative matter, the ASFINAG Act. Austria – and I believe it is very successful – is currently holding the Presidency in the European Union and has also set some priorities for itself. For example, the issue of labour market and the fight against unemployment should be strongly promoted and unemployment reduced. Europe is strong when we have independent strong regions and work together where we can join forces. And the ASFINAG empowerment law, through which the toll systems within the internal market can also cooperate and communicate with each other, is, I believe, a very sensible and necessary measure. However, it is also reasonable and proper to create balance sheet provisions for this project and for its implementation in order to finance this project accordingly, as far as the major project of the Brenner axis is concerned. I think it is a reasonable measure to transfer money from the road to the rail. This is also an example of good transport and environmental policy, which undoubtedly bears the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party and this Federal Government. If we are discussing the ASFINAG law today, we can probably look back on the success story of the ASFINAG and on investments in the field of road construction and motorways that are as high as ever before. There are excellent major projects in Lower Austria alone, including in my constituency, which undoubtedly also contribute to improving transport infrastructure in this area, but which also contribute to improving quality of life through noise protection measures. Also a success story is, I believe, the ASFINAG toll control. This also deliberately relieves the executive of tasks in order to Creating opportunities: The police can focus on the core tasks, and this is also noted by the positive crime statistics that have now been presented, which show that, on the one hand, the number of cases indicated has fallen, but on the other hand, the number of cases clarified has increased. In this context, thank you to the police! But also in connection with the toll introduction a clear sentence that the Greens have shaped a few weeks ago: I am in favour of the introduction of the car-related toll, especially as a representative of a region that has many counterparts in the region. This is an attack on the donor interests, and this can only be rejected by the Austrian People's Party and also by me as ÖAAB-Mandatar. It is important here to stay with the existing toll system. I believe that today's legislative decision is an important step, and I may request the approval of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8877	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8898	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to focus exclusively on the toll supervisory bodies. There has been an opinion by Professors Brno and Hauser, who commissioned SPÖ because we had constitutional concerns about certain parts of the legislation in force. These concerns were essentially shared, especially our concerns about the principle of legality, with the empowerment of the toll supervisory bodies. In addition, there have been and have repeatedly been complaints about the behaviour of these organs, which are not by chance referred to in the mouth of the people as “tout-sheriffs”, and there have been some cases in which it has really occurred in a very unpleasant way, as some of these so-called toll-sheriffs have behaved toward the citizens. I think these two things – the assessment, but also the experience in practice – have now led to changes in the law that the tasks, rights and also the duties of these institutions are defined more precisely. Trainings are also envisaged. This is very welcome, because if such tasks are already entrusted to private individuals, there must be clear rules, then the tasks must be clearly determined. Although some problems remain, these three draft laws here are still to be assessed positively, especially on the question of cross-financing to rail. The Secretary of State has now also explained how the matter can be understood with the replacement toll. That is why we will agree to this package of laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8932	Next, Mr Hornek. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8953	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Transport serves man and economy. The transport infrastructure connects our country inside and with our neighbouring countries. Transport is therefore an essential prerequisite for Prosperity and progress. Modern infrastructure and good accessibility are among the most important location factors in international competition in the Internet age. By reuniting Europe, Austria is especially called on in the east of our country to meet the new challenges in the infrastructure sector. Under the direction of a transport planner, the long-term development plans of the ASFINAG, the ÖBB and the countries of the General Transport Plan have been drawn up. The fact that international connections run both on the rail and on the road across Austrian territory is an important economic premise. An important step has been taken with the successful introduction of the truck toll, which fully benefits road construction. Currently, €1.2 billion per year is invested in highways and motorways. The Austrian toll system, implemented by ASFINAG, is not only financing a good part of Austria's high-level road development, but has become a model for toll systems in our neighbouring countries. In return, there have been considerable difficulties in the implementation of the toll system in the Federal Republic of Germany. There, damage to the Federal Republic of Germany was about €6 billion a year, apart from the image damage experienced by the Federal Republic of Germany as a technology location. The new law now in force is another step towards cost-reliance in the transport sector. The basis for this was laid by the draft Road Costs Directive adopted by the European Parliament in December. In sensitive areas, this enables tolls for transport and environmental-relieving alternative projects, such as the Brenner base tunnel. The intensive work of our members of our government State Secretary Kukacka, State Secretary Mainoni and our Vice-Chancellor is due to the fact that another important step has been taken here to meet the Tyrolean population in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9001	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9023	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Hornek has summarized very clearly once again what the basic objectives and positive results of our transport policy were. This Federal Government spends far more than all the governments before for the transport infrastructure. So much money has never been spent on the construction of roads, motorways, highways, but also railways as in this legislative period, ladies and gentlemen! That is why it can and will also be possible to satisfy to a large extent the wishes presented here today. Mr Grillitsch referred in particular to the B 317. I would like to express my support: In the coming Federal Roads Act – and it is about to be brought in soon and will be decided in this legislative period – the adoption will be determined by the ASFINAG. The same applies to the Marchfeld highway and the wine- quarter-speed road. These two roads will also be included in the ASFINAG network. Also at Traisental-Bundesstraße, B 334 is currently under intense negotiations between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the State of Lower Austria. I assume that we will also have a positive settlement there. The Hansson-Kurve, A 23/S 7, mentioned here by Mrs Bayr, is also under negotiation. Unfortunately, this is an extremely expensive piece that costs about €400 million to 2.6 kilometers. We are discussing whether more cost-effective solutions are possible here. However, I would also like to point out – as I believe, one thing that must still be resolved by the city of Vienna and also by the SPÖ – that we also have problems with the approval and approval procedure, because according to ASFINAG, the district of Favorites does not want to support this project and that there are changes to it. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude by saying a few words on the issue of toll directive and Brenner-basis tunnel, which was particularly addressed by the Greens. I think it is unfair and unfair to blame this government for not acting consistently on these issues. This government has made massive progress on the Road Costs Directive at European level, has achieved a whole series of decisive improvements, yes, I would say that we have also introduced a change in awareness in the European Union and thus also a trend change in transport policy. What's missing is a clear position of the Greens who don't tell us: Are they actually for this regulation or are they against it, are they actually for the Brenner base tunnel or are they against it? And if they're against it, why actually? Why should what we do with the Brenner Base Tunnel in Austria be wrong, where Switzerland is always set as an example, that the Gotthard Tunnel and the Lötschberg Tunnel are built there and that there is a massive attempt to bring transit traffic to the rails. – So, ladies and gentlemen, what is meaningful and coherent there should actually be accepted in Austria as meaningful, correct and necessary. In this sense, as I mean, we're on the right road here, too. For the first time, it has succeeded in determining the cross-financing from the road to the rail. The evolution of the ASFINAG law, which we decide today, is an outflow of it. An amount of around €20 million per year is already being secured here, returned for the Brenner base tunnel, for the extension of the railway. We act correctly, we act consistently, and I see no reasonable alternative to this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9068	Next, Mr Preineder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9089	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today, we are dealing with the Federal Roads toll law, the ASFINAG law and the ASFINAG empowerment law, as I mean, laws with a forward-looking direction, because this ensures the prerequisite for a common European development of the toll system that European toll roads are managed together, but also the independence of Austria. However, it is also supported by the possibility of checking the motorway vignette electronically, technically, thus ensuring continuous control. In this way we secure revenue and above all have the opportunity to access drivers from other countries. The Austrian toll system has proven itself accordingly and is a positive example of how it is feasible. The toll supervisory bodies, which act accordingly but have also been criticized today – it is simply not a pleasant task to be interested in tolls – could also relieve the Austrian police and make an additional contribution to greater security. This is, as I believe, also a right way for the Federal Government to ensure revenue – revenue that benefits from the expansion of the high-level road network, with a focus on the Brenner base tunnel and its financial provision, and a clear signal that rail and road are being expanded and expanded together, thus providing a solution to the transit problem for Tyrol. It is also relevant for my home state of Lower Austria to implement important transport projects – whether the Marchfeld-Schnellstraße, or the Weinviertel-Schnellstraße or, hopefully, the Traisental-Bundesstraße. And with these revenues it would also be possible to build park & drive facilities. I believe that these legislative instruments can be decided unanimously today. Thank you very much for that. And I am also pleased to continue to be able to discuss transport capacities here unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9132	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore vote on the draft law in 1262. Mr Hiezu has made a request for separate vote by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moserei. I shall therefore vote on the draft law, taking into account the desire for separate vote. We shall come to a separate vote on Article 1 of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 2 of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to a separate vote on Article 3 of the draft law as it stands. I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law (title and receipt) which have not yet been voted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9208	I announce that Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Molterer according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a committee of inquiry regarding illegal... – Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Kogler... Excuse me! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank you for this correct position! It is the wish of the Father of Thought! That's not how you're going to be the first President!]] So I'll say again: Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Kogler – this is the tricks of handwritten notes – have according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up on illegal trade with regard to sight marks. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. [[12:35:39]] 3rd. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1191, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Aviation Act (1263, e.g.) 4. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1260, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention of 13 December 1990 In December 1960, on cooperation to ensure air transport ‘EUROCONTROL’, in accordance with the various amendments made to the recasting of the Protocol of 27 December 1960. June 1997 and Final Act (1276 p.a.) 5. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1261, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol to the Recast of the International Convention of 13. December 1960 on cooperation to safeguard aviation ‘EUROCONTROL’ in accordance with the various amendments made, including the Additional Protocol and Final Act (1277, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9256	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9286	Madam President. High house! Today, we are deciding on an aviation package with three important points. Firstly, the ratification of the 1960 version of the 1960 International Convention on cooperation in the security of aviation ‘EUROCONTROL’ – this revision dates back to 1997. It includes an update of the obsolete Convention, allows for the accession of regional economic integration organisations and, third, replaces the principle of unanimity with the principle of majority voting. Secondly, we ratify the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to this revised "EUROCONTROL" Convention. This meant finding difficult diplomatic solutions. In the case of decisions in matters where the EU has exclusive competence, the EU now exercises the voting rights of its Member States and, of course, the Member States are not entitled to vote. However, if there is no exclusive EU competence, each EU Member State shall vote and the EU representative shall not vote. Furthermore, the EU does not make a financial contribution, but should not make any human proposals for the "EUROCONTROL" bodies. Of course, the well-known Gibraltar clause as a compromise between the UK and Spain must not be missing either. And thirdly, today we are adopting a novel to the Aviation Act. It is to be accepted the rules of the Joint Aviation Authorities regarding the licensing and fitness of the pilots, these are the Joint Aviation Requirements, the famous JARs. As a result, the provisions on civil pilot certificates are now harmonised throughout Europe. The aircraft and helicopters as well as the aviation medical examination for the civil aircraft are included. Except for the sailplanes, balloon drivers and pilots of hangers and paragliders. Furthermore today, the use of military airfields by civil aviation is adapted to the needs of practice. The question of authorizing the aeromedical centers was very controversial. In accordance with a request from the Aero Club, this will now be done by the Federal Minister for Transport, and there will be no operating obligation either. This amendment to the Aviation Act also includes clarifications in the application of EC Regulation No 2320 of 2002 on air freight safety controls. Of course, this Regulation already applies directly. However, it is necessary to clarify how this implementation takes place in Austria. This is about the creation of a closed chain, a safety chain from the original loader, which is also known as the so-called Shippers themselves may place the security control over the carriers acting as regulated agents may register until the air carrier. The air carrier may take over and transport a cargo only if there is the closed chain or if it itself has carried out appropriate safety checks. It is now clear that safety costs something, we already know about the comprehensive safety rules in passenger transport in aviation. However, in order to be able to register as a regulated agent at the Ministry under these conditions, and thus to introduce the relevant conditions, and to enable the air carriers to build up the necessary checks lupen-clean, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! I would like to ask for agreement on all three templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9390	Mr Magistrate. Regulation-readed amendment is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Steier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9417	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On today's agenda there are two issues in the field of aviation, as my previous speaker mentioned, two protocols on "EUROCONTROL" aimed at further harmonising and modernising air traffic management in Europe. We give our full support to these proposals. I would like to address a little more precisely the amendment of the Aviation Act. I should like to refer here to the amendment quoted, which was tabled at the initiative of Comrade Eder and which provides for the amendment of § 134a at second reading. I should also like to refer to the adoption of joint aviation authorities' rules on the licensing of pilots in Austrian law. After the majority of European states have already submitted these pilot licenses to international regulations, Austria is following up here. In fact, uniform regulations for civil aviation licences in Europe not only bring better professional opportunities for aviation staff, but also harmonised training standards and thus more safety in the air for all. The EU Commission has just recently criticised different safety levels of individual states in the field of aviation and announced further proposals for Community legislation, given the growing volume of air transport, ladies and gentlemen, certainly a necessary development. In the Austrian airspace, more than one million aircraft were registered for the first time in 2005, and these growth prospects of aviation in Europe are expected to double by 2025 and even triple the volume of transport in some regions. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, the reduction of environmental pollution by air transport is also becoming increasingly important. At present, the share of air transport in total greenhouse gases in the EU is 3%, but with an increasing trend. Emissions of international flights in the EU increased by 73 percent between 1990 and 2003. Without countermeasures – and in this we should agree – these increases will increase to 150 percent by 2012. The EU Commission's proposal to include air transport in an EU Emissions Trading System will certainly raise still heated debates. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9457	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9478	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the content of this LFG-Novelle I have already given an opinion from my previous speakers. Mr Regler said very explicitly that this was, as it were, a Europeanisation of the rules for civil aviation staff to be harmonised, and also provided reasons. Then he addressed the establishment of the aeromedical centers and also that there would have been a controversial point. I would like to address something in this area and explain why the Aero Club was so much behind it that the authorization of the aeromedical centres is not carried out by the ACG, in particular not by Dr. Wolfgang Köstler, but by the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Over the years, Dr. Köstler has proved that his competence is inadequate and his personal integrity is not given, ladies and gentlemen. If you read in a publication Prof. Dr. med. Dr. h.c. Wolfgang Köstler, then exactly this Dr. Köstler is meant to be, a practical doctor who has acquired his professor's title in Belarus and wants to give himself the scientific touch here. Mr. Dr. Köstler, like me, is presumptuous when, for example, a pilot doctor moves from the Mühlviertel to the place in the Innkreis and Dr. Köstler finds that there is no need for a pilot doctor there. It is, as I think, urgently necessary to find rules for how to become a pilot. It's nowhere fixed, it's nowhere fixed, there's no provision for that, but it's the grace of Dr. Köstler, who's essential to whether anyone can be a pilot's doctor or not. A requirement may be a seminar in the Zürserhof about €1 300 exclusive stay and meals, with the contents of these seminars at least appear questionable. The professional competence – ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I am glad that the authorization of these medical centers takes place through the ministry – can also be questioned if, for example, there is a flight student who can be examined by Dr. Köstler in order to attend the pilot school to learn flying. There will then be a delay in payment in the course of training, where, at certain intervals, money has to be paid. Finally, there is a complaint, and the flight student's agent then finds that the payment will not take place – despite the investigation carried out by Dr. Köstler. I think it is presumptuous, ladies and gentlemen, if at a meeting of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians Dr. Köstler makes a request for distrust against the financial referee and, in the course of the conciliation discussion, makes the offer to this financial officer of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians – and that was still before the committee meeting, where we decided to make this LFG-Novelle – to make a territorial protection for Vienna for the establishment of a Medical Center. I find it presumptuous if there is an own Köstler’s translation concerning the JAR-FCL. Mr Regler mentioned the exceptions not covered by the JAR-FCL: Balloons, sailplanes, hangers and paragliders. In the Köstler’s translation of the JAR-FCL, the sailplanes were suddenly included. There has then been the immoral offer to the Aero Club to take over the administration of these phenomena, i.e. this administrative task by the ACG, by Dr. Köstler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Köstler plays robber and gendarm at the same time. He is the one who issues opinions as an aeronautical expert and then, as he says, checks his colleagues. Older pilots were also ordered from Dr. Köstler to Vienna, even if they had a positive airworthiness assessment, so that he could determine the flight suitability again. This was related in the normal case to the submission of a list of nine to ten specialists who had to carry out another investigation. I'm not talking about the costs here. Finally, something I could take from a works council paper. You might remember the story with the OS 111. That was the plane that made a abdominal landing on a field in front of Munich in the snow due to a engine defect. The two pilots, as I mean, have acted well, wisely and correctly, and have certainly also had a portion of luck, namely that the field was available as well. There's nothing passing. Then there is a certain Dr. Leg who has found that the psychological burden on these two pilots is now so great that they should not fly anymore. He is therefore in Germany to the air traffic investigation office. He also tried it in Austria. It didn't work until Dr. Köstler was put into play. He wrote a letter and grounded the two pilots, the captain of flight and the copilots. This Dr. Bein, who is acting as an aviation psychologist, does not have his doctor as a psychologist, but as a meteorologist. Furthermore, the Works Council newspaper, both the AUA and the Lauda Air had deprived Dr. Köstler of the investigation of the aviation staff, and this may be for good reason. But in this works council paper it says that flight attendants of the Lauda Air and the AUA occasionally tell about Dr. Köstler, and there are expressions like sexual harassment and so on: Visual tests with naked upper body, heels to control the backbone. You can certainly derive good medical reasons – I can't. I don't measure that. If I read something like this in a works council paper, I wonder why, as Dr. Köstler, if I have a white vest, I do not file a complaint. It's not understandable to me. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think I've provided some examples of how good it is that the authority regarding the Medical Center remains at BMVIT, so it's well located there. However, I wonder – and this question is addressed to Dr. Baupin – how long he is watching Dr. Köstler until a contract is settled.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9567	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9588	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have three agenda items discussed here under one, I would like to put our agreement to Agenda items 4 and 5, that is to ‘EUROCONTROL’, to the Aviation Conventions, in the room, and I also hope that you will agree accordingly. It is clear that, due to this increase in air traffic, certain rules must be internationalized, and certain procedures must be formalised. My concerns are always – and my colleagues from SPÖ have already made this clear – that overall the increase in air transport is of course at the expense of the locals and also at the expense of air quality and climate protection. Therefore, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, the good course, the plea, when it comes to air traffic control, please also take into account the interest of the local authorities. In my opinion, this is not enough and insufficient in the case of the government template which amends the Aviation Act. We discussed this in committee. Mr State Secretary, you have referred to § 44 para. 2 and § 63 para. 2 references. I wrote it exactly. Then I have read and seen, there is no consideration at all of how precipitators are affected by noise development and exhaust gas development. That is why we reject our attitude. Another aspect of the need for maintenance and training facilities at airports is civil aviation schools et cetera. As part of the approval, there is no environmental requirement in the event of modesty – no environmental requirement in the event of modesty! In Salzburg we have the problem with helicopter flights, with training flights in the helicopter area. This law is not taken into account again. I would also like to point out that although it is certainly open to all residents to lodge complaints and go to the highest courts. Why do we anchor what has once been established in a Supreme Court of Justice, namely that consideration must be given, not in the law, so that this permanent exercise of authority by the arrants is no longer necessary? I would have expected that to happen if I had also agreed to this point. But so it remains with our rejection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9627	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9649	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Tour! ‘EUROCONTROL’ shall be the European Aviation Safety Organization based in Brussels. In Maastricht there is also the so-called "Maastricht Upper Area Control Centre", which is there to monitor the upper airspace in the Benelux countries as well as in North-West Germany. ==References== In December 1960, in Brussels, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany, the Eurocontrol International Convention signed a cooperation on aviation safety. ==References== The Treaties entered into force on 1 March 1963. Today, the “EUROCONTROL” has over 35 members. In addition to 22 European Union countries, this includes Albania, Bosnia, Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Monaco, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, Serbia/Montenegro and Turkey. Since autumn 2002, the European Union itself has been a member of ‘EUROCONTROL’. Today, the “EUROCONTROL” employs more than 2,200 people in 35 different countries and is active even at seven locations. In 2004, EUROCONTROL recorded more than 8 900 000 flights in the airspace of its members. ==References== The EUROCONTROL registered 29 495 flight movements on September 2004, the busiest day in 2004. In Austria too, the development is growing at 7 to 10 percent per anno. This is understandable on the basis of the figures recently collected on the airports for statistics. Both in Salzburg and in Vienna as well as in Graz and Innsbruck and in Klagenfurt, there were increases of up to 17 percent in 2005 as was the case at Salzburg Airport. It is nice that you always use foreign, in this case English expressions in aviation, such as the JAA, Joint Aviation Authorities, short European Aviation Authority. The flight movements in Austria amount to the time more than 1 million a year, these are nearly 20 million passengers who land at Austrian airports to get in here, get out of or change. Last year, there was an almost tragic collision, and I am allowed to quote from the 2005 “Sky Revue”: “Airplanes came near at 60 meters. Only a Serbian and a French passenger machine over Hungary can escape a collision. It separated only a distance of 60 meters, reported Hungarian media.” This is, of course, perfectly clear in the case of flight movements, where in an airspace, which eventually becomes smaller and smaller, the larger the movements take place in this space, the distances of the individual planes, the individual flight times, the take-off and take-off times are getting shorter and shorter. That is why these provisions are so important, which we decide here today, and the meaningful implementation at European level. I thank you now – especially the opposition parties – for all-sided approval. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me end by mentioning one point, namely the overflight charges. Overflight charges as well as landing charges, in principle part of airport charges, have been reduced, and there is a cause for criticism. Although landing fees have been reduced by around 10 percent, from € 223 last year to € 208, the question arises: Would it not have been better to reduce landing charges a little more dramatically to help the Austrian aircraft companies write better figures that they would all need at present, and to leave the overflight charges at the same level as in Switzerland or the BENELUX countries? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9713	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9734	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to boil up all these legislative instruments, so to speak, because I think they have been discussed most in detail, but I would like to briefly address a few points that are of central importance from our point of view. The first concerns the Medical Centers. It is now also being established in Austria that there has been a standardized investigation in other European countries for a longer time, an investigation carried out at Medical Centers, where it is possible to report voluntarily. The examination procedure is carried out by the Federal Minister for Infrastructure – for which my colleague Maximilian Hofmann is also grateful – and then permits are issued. Let us take a look at the complexity of such an aeromedical fitness check! This includes the examination of cardiovascular system, lung, stomach, intestine, blood, vision. All the values that are important for this subject area are collected there. At this point, I would like to point out that the Austrian Federal Government has been carrying out investigations of this quality in the army hospital for years. This would be an occasion to think about whether it would be useful to have the army hospital with its flying medical department as a medical center. establish, since the necessary resources are already available and there is no need to create anything new. As far as the use of military airports for civil aviation is concerned, we must say quite clearly: Military airport is supposed to remain military airport! We are talking about an exception to let civilian aircraft land. An exception is Linz, where there is an agreement: Linz is a purely military airport that is used civilianly. But this is not going to develop so far as to make any applications to the Minister of Defence regarding Langenlebarn or tentway to open these airports to the civil sector as well. Finally, one thing that is especially dear to my heart: The so-called CEATS has been established within the European Union and, above all, the Austro Control. CEATS is nothing but a summary of various countries – Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, Austria and the Czech Republic – for the joint management of the airspace, departure area 230 to 250, and in this merger Austria has received the surcharge for the center. It's supposed to be built in Fischamend. But at the moment, the signs are that the Czech Republic now wants to build this centre, against the commitments made by the Czech Republic. That is why I am calling on this Federal Government to remain hard, because it cannot be possible for a Member State to suddenly report desires that are not comprehensible after contracts have been concluded. But if it progresses so further – that would be very unfortunate – then I believe that CEATS, if the Czech Republic is not moving, is condemned to failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9786	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9807	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the need for uniformising the different rules of the individual Member States on air transport in Europe has become increasingly clear. The rules of the United European Aviation Authorities concerning the licensing and availability of pilots are incorporated into Austrian law. For this purpose, comprehensive rules have been developed for civil air carriers, the so-called Joint Aviation Requirements – Flight Crew License. In addition, a number of further changes are required to the civil aviation staff regulations of the Aviation Act, for example with regard to types of civil aviation licences and pilot qualifications, the extent of theoretical and practical training, the conduct of tests, fitness levels, competence of aeronautical authorities and so on. It is also worth mentioning that the entire civil air staff is not covered by this rules, such as sailplanes, balloon flyers and pilots of hangers and paragliders. [[Abg. May. Kogler: balloon driver!]] I'm correcting: Balloon drivers. – If these air transport rules were not implemented, we would have to face considerable disadvantages, since the large majority of European states are already issuing pilot licenses in line with JAR-FCL licences, thereby increasing legal difficulties in recognition of Austrian civil aircraft licences abroad. The advantages for Austrian air carriers in the future are that the mutual recognition of pilot rights throughout Europe removes the administrative burden for the necessary recognition procedures. Furthermore, with the possibility of acquiring a JAR-FCL license in Austria for Austrian pilots, there would be improved professional opportunities in Europe and even in non-European countries, where a purely Austrian civil aviation licence is now increasingly less accepted. I think that safety in general and safety in the airspace are particularly important and that the harmonisation of the rules is an important step, and I thank all those responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9844	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Aviation Act in 1263 of the supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Hoffmann, Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, colleagues and others tabled an amendment or amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one application, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1263 of the Supplements, together with the title and receipt, taking into account the supplementary or amendment request of Members Dipl.-Ing. Hoffmann, Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall also vote on the proposal of the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention of 13 December 1990 In December 1960, on cooperation to ensure air transport ‘EUROCONTROL’, in accordance with the various amendments made to the recasting of the Protocol of 27 December 1960. In June 1997 and the final act in 1260, the Supplements were approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the fact that the language versions of the State Treaty in Albanian, Bulgarian, Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Croatian, Macedonian, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech, Turkish and Hungarian languages within the meaning of Article 49(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the proposal of the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Protocol to the Recast of the International Convention of 13. In accordance with the various amendments made, including the Additional Protocol and Final Act in 1261 of the Supplements, the approval shall be granted in December 1960 on cooperation in order to safeguard aviation ‘EUROCONTROL’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the language versions of the State Treaty in English, Bulgarian, Croatian, Danish, Spanish, French, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Swedish, Czech and Turkish as defined in Article 49(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. [[13:13:24]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-158 d.b.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the Federal Government, series Federal Republic of Germany 2005/7 (1242 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9945	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Herbe. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9972	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Probably the Minister of Finance is of the mistaken opinion that today the last time the Causa homepage plays a role. Minister of Finance, I can assure you: Once again this Hompage-Causa will play a very important role, namely on the day of the National Council election, because the voters or taxpayers in the electoral cell will think very carefully about this and thank you for being treated differently than you treat yourself, Mr Finanzminister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: (showing on SPÖ lines that are half empty) With you all people run away!]] Three There is evidence, ladies and gentlemen: The Minister was sponsored by a lobby group, who, by himself, said: We support the ÖVP! We thanked ourselves for this by means of a corresponding tax reform. You don't pay a tax yourself. Then there was public criticism. But what did Grasser do? He set up his deputy State Secretary for Whitewashing. [[Abg. Hornek: What does the BAWAG or the Blecha do?]] Mr Hornek, this is all clear and familiar to the public. Therefore, the image values of the Minister of Finance are in the basement. I bet with you: This does not even help a “wet that?” appearance of the minister to correct that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Say what the Blecha does!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, are right in any way to strangle this discussion. I can remind you that, when Professor Doralt, a designated tax expert, was present here in the house and allowed yourself to make some critical comments on the homepage causa that had been mutilated by the hearing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] – This is really a process for which you should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, is a praise, because it has really remained steadfast and says clearly: The obligation to pay tax has not been raised sufficiently. How does State Secretary Finz comment on this? – He says that the authority would have examined thoroughly. What does the Minister of Finance say about this? – exemplary and accurate. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to agree now, and this debate can serve: The President of the Court of Auditors says: Inadequately raised, and the government side says: Exactly and exemplary and thorough! Well, please, it can't be that. The President of the Court of Auditors will certainly confirm the Court of Auditors' findings. And it is time you finally took note of this, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. What else did Grasser do? – He even commented that Doralt was not loaded – a one-time process that a minister makes specifications on who the information people have to hear. But in total, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to thank the Minister for Finance – yes, thank you! – for this whole homepage-causa, because he has really shown and proved very important: first of all, that he believes that rules of play apply to him other than to the population, and second, that Parliament, the Court of Auditors, state institutions are wrested on him. [[Abg. Hornek: This is an old calender! You're like a Tibetan prayer mill!]] This too, ladies and gentlemen, will not forget the voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10093	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10114	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Herb talks about the homepage, then SPÖ members leave the plenary room quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's actually going to happen if you have to listen to it again and again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] I understand for my colleagues that if you do not want to listen to this, I tell you quite openly, and my bad luck is that I speak for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know any... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't get upset! I'm not upset either. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know any subject matter that has been treated by the opposition just as much as Karl-Heinz Grasser's homepage. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: From whom?]] - From the opposition. – Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say one thing very clearly: The SPÖ has never been about the matter! [[Abg. Hornek: That's it!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] You know, you got late that you spent 145 000 € on Katzmaier for a study at the time. That was before the last National Council election. And what did this study record back then? First: Karl-Heinz Grasser is one – I quote from your study – that addresses central SPÖ selection groups very positively. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] It concluded: Either you can win Karl-Heinz Grasser for SPÖ. If that doesn't work, then they'll have him... – I'll tell you that right away! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does this have to do with the Court of Auditors report?]] – If this fails, then one has “sustainably political desavowing”. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gässner: The opinion of the population has changed for a long time!]] That is exactly what you are doing to a large extent and in an unprecedented form! They have filed the case “Karl-Heinz Grasser” in court. For years you have been dealing with this Causa the House in a form, as you have not done with any second thing before it. Now I come to the point: First: Two financial offices have examined the matter twice. Secondly, The People's Procuratorate has checked. Thirdly, The judicial authorities have determined. Fourth: There were witnesses, there were preliminary surveys. Fifth, you open a bottle There were ten written requests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – I am not worried about you, Mr Matznetter. Sixteenths: There were ten urgent questions in the National Council. 7th: There were two urgent questions in the Federal Council. Eighth: There were five requests for distrust against Minister Grasser and one against Secretary of State Finz. Nineteenths: There were three oral questions at Question Time. Tenths: There is the Court of Auditors' report. All you have done has not brought only one thing, that is, what you have always claimed: that Karl-Heinz Grasser has a fiscal presence, which is not correct. That's it! And you, Mr Matznetter, are still behind your immunity to this day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - Yes, it is! There have been processes and still. They've had corrections printed. And it's like this: To this day, you are protecting your immunity, so you are yelling now, because you know that you are under this protection, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you want to abolish this?]] Your problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not the homepage, you actually have a very different problem, and that is the following: We have a successful young finance minister here, and you look very old! – Yes, so it is, Mr Matznetter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Your problem is that you look very old compared to Grasser with what you have in terms of financial policy proposals. That's your problem! And that's what you can see: Even casting builders had nothing else in mind than to get to the vicinity of Karl-Heinz Grasser as far as possible in Kitzbühel. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I'm sure! So this is your problem and not our problem! Therefore, one thing is quite clear: On the side of Karl-Heinz Grasser there is a very positive balance sheet and on your side a negative balance sheet. And what you're going to continue here today, starting with herbs, that's just this negative balance. I'll tell you: This will be too little for the future of this Republic. Therefore, You stay where you are. But we work with Minister of Finance Grasser.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10314	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10335	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Gentlemen at the ministerial bank! The previous speaker said something about it. – If you have listened to your contribution, you have another association to do so: They're in charge of it! I am not talking about the responsibility of the Minister, this is a story of my own, and we are still talking about it and the work of the Court of Auditors. This is the actual item on the agenda that we have to debate. You are under the responsibility of both you and your group as Members when it comes to clarifying certain things. – This is once the point one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I have been given the impression that you are confusing the Court of Auditors report with some advertising brochure of beauty salons or beauty institutions when it comes to looking old or young. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Look out for this!]] I don't want to make that kind of funny, because I really have the feeling that this story is very listed in the field of comedian, but it's really a very tragic one, because it describes the state of the Republic. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To this state picture fits perfectly well that your speech has admittedly been a very behaved and modest attempt to belong to Carinthia’s fascist customs, and of course you have every reason to think about it, why Carinthia always comes to mind. [[Abg. Hornek: Why you are constantly interrupting the committee!]] Only: If we really turn to the actual item on the agenda and if you already want to characterise this as a stage piece, then the following picture for me is the result, and that's just what happened so far: a little semi-white dramalet in your world. It's something else with us: Who are the persons acting? A finance minister who can get money from the industry – you can now turn and turn, as you want, this is once a mediocre description – and a State Secretary, who, of course, depends on this minister's direction, whose case is being overshadowed if the whole starts to smell a bit, and who, on the other hand, has officials under him again, namely, the head of the financial offices, these are the closest ones. [[Abg. Wheeler: Really mediocre!]] That is exactly what this Court of Auditors report points out! You've got to go into it at all: What role have the financial offices played in this? – These are the next actions in this spectacle! Finally, there is the self-righteous justice of the ÖVP, which continues into Parliament until now. That is what has been done so far – before the Court of Auditors' report went into the whole. What does the Court of Auditors report on these transactions? – Of course, he can’t – and that’s what the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has done in a very wise manner – I have to add – examine the individual case, the so-called Grasser case. Of course, he cannot, that is not his competence at all. But in the context of external audits at financial offices, he has put this individual case in context with other similar things. And of course it will be very interesting! [[Abg. Hornek: This is an old hat!]] I do not know how you can get to this looser attitude, because this Court of Auditors report clearly states that the Heads of the Financial Offices may not have done procedurally – not on their own – right. That's the turn-up! And suddenly the piece gets a completely different character: the minister with money from the industry, the finance secretary that covers the whole, a tax-based whitewasher and possibly also a “employer” brainwasher. [[Abg. Hornek: Do you say that at the courts?]] These are the true events! How can it be that if you want to do so, a prisoner of senior officials, we know what it was like, will write the two heads of the financial offices in this matter, as you would say now. This usually did not happen at all if one took the right to serve half seriously, there are clear signs of partiality. Nevertheless, you have so flawed it, and the Court of Auditors report does not disprove it. Of course, he doesn't prove it either. We're not the police here either, that's right. But he just finds out – and that's exactly his competence! – that there are procedural deficiencies. That alone is enough for me to believe that we should have looked at it even more precisely – and I am going to have to say that as far as your behaviour is concerned. This is our access! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Accordingly, the Court of Auditors' report is not a discharge document, but leaves the central issues open or raises new issues in addition. Suddenly, the piece has a different character. The second act suddenly moves away from the minister who has the money to put up. The second act is all of a sudden that, when this is reviewed, what the process is all about, namely, tax questions in this case – not anymore, okay – can no longer be excluded from the fact that officials and informants have been pushed into a certain position in this matter from above – in the worst case, I say, to represent a certain legal opinion. In my opinion, what further hardens this suspicion is that both financial offices have found a completely different approach to tax interpretation – not only because one is responsible for one area and the other for another, we already know that, but also in the fundamental assessment and analysis of the case. And there's something wrong with that, especially when at the end both come out – on some detours, I'm squatting the word "irrewards" – that there is no tax liability. – So far, so bad, or so far, so good, you want to mean. But there are quite different opinions, completely divergent opinions, diametric opinions in the Court of Auditors and not just ourselves. This is also referred to here! When the Ministry of Finance was asked – not by us, the Court of Auditors – to present the whole matter in order to demonstrate cases of comparison, it turned out that, contrary to previous statements, there were no written legal information at all. One has not even decided to do so, because one has dizzy in interpretation, because, for this kind of interpretation, one has to comment on comments from the Federal Republic of Germany from what I know as many decades that have not even been valid, because the books have long since been withdrawn from circulation. This is an incredible process! And all of this is confirmed here, of course, in the language of the Court of Auditors. It's confirmed! All of this should have been the subject of the Committee, but with your approach and, of course, with your democratic majority, you have finally prevented these issues from getting to the tapet and can also be answered by the relevant people. I'll draw a line. We're in the third act and here in the house. And that's what's going on. If all of this were the same as I found – and you have had little to do with it now – if even the Court of Auditors found that this is a hard finding; I do not know what should be so funny, Mr. Lopatka, then it would have been logical if the Institute were to load information persons, those who might be able to contribute to the matter, according to § 42. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr Lopatka]] Who did you invite – in one case with our consent, right because we wanted this person too? Who did you load? I'll leave the names away, I'll keep it that way. – These top officials, who by the way, later – see! – has been appointed Secretary General and a head of section, but not any, but that head of section – I think you will see that anyway, and I do not want to roll it out now because of this – who was the accountant in the said association. – An absurd and self-suspecting process anyway. But no, they've been picked up by you! This smells from a distance – if you allow me to compare the court again – that they can only be caught. And he has behaved the same way, the head of the section, and, as I mean, he is quite right. He said: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can already ask, but I mean, you see, in what role I am in. – He was right! They have preferred to remain in this information, that is, non-information. And where's your report? . I have written a different opinion, which, as I believe, is very objective. There are questions inside – and therefore I do not have to deal with the case myself anymore – which – and I say that thanks be to God at least there is this right for the individual Members – will be inside the parliamentary protocols for all eternity. It will continue to follow that these questions have not been answered. Why – and now we are already at the end of the third file –? Because you have prevented that really people are being loaded who can actually do something to help things. No more and no less have we asked. And we've also done something to help me admit, that's not the best way. I invited Professor Doralt to stay at his disposal – for the committee, not for me privately. Yes, of course, you would have had the opportunity to ask, with a majority of Members. Would you have asked? No, you didn't use your majority to contribute to the investigation! You have used your majority to keep Professor Doralt at the door, in the truest sense of the word – that name can still be called. He was sitting outside the bankerl and was at his disposal, but you prevented that. They have wallowed the door of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, although this is one of the few committees that could even have been made public. That's what you've prevented. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: You have given interviews without taking care of the matter because you wanted to go on TV!]] It could have been that simple. [[Abg. Hornek: You put yourself on TV instead of discussing!]] - You won't save these calls anymore. – You would have had it so easy! Now you would have been in a quieter constitution if the Committee had been declared public – is a sensible institution, but you have initially prevented it – and the information person has the same with it. An excellent contribution you have made! And what is the result? The result is that we have a Court of Auditors report, which includes serious accusations, and ultimately you are left with the accusations because you have prevented further clarifications. I am not saying that I ate the wisdom with the spoon, but I would have at least, on the one hand, as an oppositionist, but on the other hand, as committee chairman, to help us to work out such things properly, as we say. The Court of Auditors is not a body, you know. Sometimes you get the impression that you're acting like this, so if that's anything by the way, I'm saying very carefully now, but it's not any body, and that's exactly how things could be explained there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now he is criticizing the Court of Auditors again!]] Our working methods have changed over the last few years. Let's look in the eye! We are no longer making a big committee because of every small thing, which is wrong. We focus on a few essential things, but always where it becomes essential, you step up with its majority and keep everything down. This was the case with the interceptors, where the highest generality has expressed itself against the purchase – for the sake of caution She retired them and then no longer invited them to Parliament. You would have already been able to get rid of it all over Europe! The whole of Europe would do differently on such issues, only with us is such a thing possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Because you're standing right next door! All right, next to it!]] My impression is that the modest and anyway not very strongly developed control rights that we have or where there has been a certain tradition are now finally carried to the grave by you. [[Abg. Scheibner: He has already criticized the Court of Auditors!]] Think about it! It will also be degenerated in your world as a productive contribution, so to speak, if one comes to the point of cleaning up everything after the election. They could have made a contribution in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10562	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10598	Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is difficult when the opposition devalues the work of the Court of Auditors in such a way, here in plenary, but also in the Court of Auditors. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: On the contrary!]] [[Abg. Reheis: Upgraded!]] – Mr Reheis, that is not true! The colleague Kogler will lead the Court of Auditors as well as the Seipel the Art History Museum, please. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] He thinks that's his private business. He interrupts, he brings the Doralt, puts him in front of the opposition as the ball of the opposition, wants of course not to let him in, because then his press service and press service, which the herbs make, have a sense throughout the story. [[Contradict with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then: How is it going to be in the Court of Auditors? – The Court of Auditors shall submit a report. We all work through it, and there are a lot of things to think about. There are a lot of things that have been criticized by the... [[Call to the Greens: “Just think”!]] - Just to think, exactly! It would be very good if you thought a little more. [[Abg. Oillinger: A slumber show for you is this!]] – This is not a slumber show, at this time you can still be awake. Col. van der Bellen, when are you going to sleep? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Late!]] You in the Group say there is no meeting at 9 a.m. because you are already going to bed. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So don’t tell me that at “simple to "Thinking" must go to sleep. [[Abg. Oils: Last-class!]] - No, no! Sit in the glasshouse and squat on the slices, that's not really the right way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But let's stick to the subject. Both colleague herbs and colleague Kogler have not actually intended to open up the criticisms of the Court of Auditors, but they want to change political small amounts, they want to scandalize. We see that only because we always use press services... – What does that mean? [[Abg. Reheis: We don't need that!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Work on the criticism!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] “Just to think” is to slumber, and you three will wake up? - That can't be! But it is not possible... – Well, wait a minute! [[Abg. Residual interest:... speaking time!]] I have a lot of time. Mr Kogler spoke for 10 minutes. Do you want to kill the government now, Mrs. Colleague? Or what's going on? What's going on? Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore not possible to do an objective work in this committee because we are always pre-judicated in our work on press services or on interviews given by both Kogler and herbs during the Committee. If my colleague is saying herbs here, the bill will be presented in the election cell, I think the popularity of Federal Minister Grasser is very positive and lies far above yours – if you have any at all; I do not know if yours have already been raised. Back to the thing: Anyone who is invited to the Court of Auditors, by majority decisions or unanimous decisions, is, in principle, suspicious of whether this is a senior official, whether it is any person from ministries or organisations. The moment he doesn't say what the opposition or Kogler wants to hear, he's suspicious. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there are criticisms, not only on this subject, but also on others. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] But the moment you try to find out what you can do better in material work, you want to scandalize. And that's not what we're giving!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10790	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10812	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now trying to bring some materiality into the debate on the Court of Auditors' report. The present Court of Auditors Report on External Audit at the Financial Offices showed that in 2003 around a quarter of less operational audits and special VAT audits were carried out compared to 2000. The average test intervals in the tests – these are the distances between two tests – were four years for large firms in 2004 and 18 years for medium-sized companies; however, the distances between the tests were very different across Germany. A statistical estimate by the Court of Auditors showed that five audited financial offices were likely to receive 95 percent of the reported additional results at a maximum of 34 percent; in many cases the amounts requested were indisputable from the outset. The Court of Auditors also reviewed the taxation practice of associations during the external audit of the financial offices. At the financial offices, around 9 700 associations are taxed. This is about 9 percent of the associations listed in the association statistics of the BMI, including the “Agreement to Promote the New Economy. ” In this respect, the Court of Auditors examined both the organisation's obligation to pay and pay taxes and the income and gift tax duty of the Minister of Finance. As regards the income tax obligation of the Minister of Finance, the Financial Office has taken the view that the establishment of the website entails an income tax liability with the Minister of Finance. However, due to a further tax provision – the removal of advertising costs – there is no impact on the Minister. – It remains unclear whether the Minister of Finance has declared this grant to the Financial Office and has set aside the corresponding advertising costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that we need to be surprised when people are politically drowned. In my opinion, a minister should be a model and pay his taxes, just like any other citizen, any other citizen. Mr Finanzminister, I ask you here and now: Follow your commitment and take your consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10848	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10870	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Valuable colleague of government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start with the statements contained in the Court of Auditors' review report on the external audit concerning the financial offices. I would add that the outcome of this audit has brought a number of valuable and interesting recommendations from the Court of Auditors, which have given us the opportunity to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our organisation. I can take this opportunity to report to you on the implementation of the points recommended by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors recommended the implementation of a systematic personnel bill: We have developed a corresponding calculation model for personnel use and personnel needs by the end of 2005 and are already working on the implementation of the results of the personnel calculation in January 2006. Second recommendation: We are to unify the test density in Austria: As a result, we have developed a separate control system, where we seek target agreements to achieve this Austria-wide uniform audit density. For example, individual measures to this end are to intensify the neighbourhood assistance provided by the financial offices, as well as a targeted resumption of auditors in so-called “audited” financial offices, i.e. those with too few auditors. The third recommendation was to optimize the use of a test software: To this end, we have to say that in recent years we have managed at all as an innovation to use audit software for auditing, and we have also carried out 60 seminars throughout the country for a relatively new product following the Court of Auditors' suggestion, or we are doing it. Fourth recommendation: IT support for the preparation of audit reports: We are also in the process of implementation and have established a separate report module in the IT process of operational audit 2000, which has already been in use for a very short year. The Court of Auditors has recommended that we make criteria for the verifiability of cases and the systematic recording of these cases: Here, too, implementation has been launched, and we are working on appropriate foundations as regards analyses of the risk information centre. The Court of Auditors recommended that the risk analysis be carried out for the electronic selection of cases in the special VAT audits: Here, too, we are in implementation and have fully developed the VAT risk analysis. Another recommendation is that we should reduce the time intervals between two external tests and thus increase the test density: Here, too, we have already expanded the range of exams in 2005. That is to say, we have done one-year tests, we have come to the fore, we have increased capacities – by overtime, by resuming, by qualification, where we have succeeded in bringing people from the interior into the field service and thus into the operating test, have shortened the time gap between the external service measures and thus improved the general prevention safely. I would like to point out that we are examining the Court of Auditors' reports in detail, that we are working intensively on them and that we are also constantly drawing on them as an important tool for improving our organisation. As far as the improvement of our own organisation is concerned, I should also like to take the opportunity to report to you – after five years of a very comprehensive reform of the entire financial administration, the structure and the process organisation behind us – to support and support this reform by the staff, for which I would like to thank very much because we have very, very much changed in the organization – which were the key points of these reforms in order to get the Court of Auditors' audit report into an overall picture here. For example, we have created the Independent Financial Senate, which is certainly a major progress in Austria by the rule of law. We have dissolved seven financial country directors, thus removing a whole hierarchy level and reducing the processes and procedures, which significantly reduce the procedures. We have created 41 economic space finance offices, but we have maintained the 80 locations of our financial offices. We have thus established a fundamental redesign of the structure and process organization and reduced a whole series of hierarchies. We have set up Info-Center with federal opening hours with the aim of signaling the taxpayer and the taxpayer very clearly: We want to achieve a better service, and we want to treat the population as a clientele as well. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: As “Kundschaft”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] For example, as an actual fence, we also carried out the action “Keep your money back!” in the financial offices, simply with the intention: If we are strict in the tax collection, then we want to be there too and to be there and go to the citizens where they do not collect the money they actually owe them accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You should be strict with yourself!]] Since many thousand citizens have recovered about €200 million from the financial management, I believe that this is a very great service that we have done here with our employees, and I thank them very much for having carried out this service-intensive action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have restructured the customs administration. With the closure of the customs guard, we have made a contribution to the major executive reform which the Interior Minister, Mr Strasser, has begun to implement and now continues to implement Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, and we have made a number of anti-fraud advances, such as the introduction of the reverse charge on VAT. We have intensified the advisory offer – on “Keep your money!” I have already pointed out – we have also conducted a young business day in financial management, we have achieved a whole series of successes in the fight against fraud. In conclusion, I should like to say to you, on the basis of a few performance indicators, that: Multi-Results Out-of-check: We started in 2000 with an additional result of just under €1.2 billion, the added result in 2005 was over €1.7 billion. That is, we are about 40 percent above the additional results that we have started, which is a clear indication of the efficiency and additional effectiveness of our organisation. Residue tax – always a trade union issue, when you say: Get the charges, the residues! –: We have achieved an absolute low level of residue in 2005 and we have managed to significantly reduce the enforceable residue of duties. The duration of the business presumption was 57 days in 2000 and is now 28 days. That means: The period between the submission of a declaration by a company and the delivery of the notice was almost reduced by 50 percent. Employer's charge: When does someone give us his explanation, and when will he get the money back when we pay something back? It was 45 days in 2000, 28 days in 2005. I think it is very clear from these figures that we have achieved a very comprehensive improvement, after a reorganisation that will only have its full effect in 2006 and 2007. The second part of the Court of Auditors' audit, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the homepage. – I can address what honourable Member Lopatka mentioned, and refer again to the fact that social democracy has, among other things, employed social scientist Harald Katzmayr for how to read in the press at that time, an amount of over €100 000. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] The result of this study was to attack Karl-Heinz Grasser hard and to disavow it permanently. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the way you obviously went. ==References== In June 2003, there were advertisements at the Public Prosecutor's Office: Mr Cap has shown me, ladies and gentlemen, herbs have shown me, honourable Member Matznetter has shown me, Mr Gaßner has shown me. I have been accused of fiscally incorrect behaviour, as has been done today under the protection of parliamentary immunity. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Court of Auditors...!]] Of course, it was very important to me at the time that, if a Minister of Finance was accused of not doing properly, it would be corrected and clarified as soon as possible and would make things transparent. That is why at the time I sent a request for information to the two competent financial offices and asked: Look at this! I have delegated all the responsibility, said: It is not to be said to me that I have nothing to do with it as a victim! and tell me: Has this been done correctly or not? This request for information, which was also the subject of the Court of Auditors' examination, has led to the conclusion that I have done absolutely right. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler has used a terminology here – that is to say, "connect money" – which he can only use under parliamentary immunity, and has made a choice of words which I very much regret here in the House. He also said that it was necessary to have a closer look. – honourable Member, “keep an accurate look”: We have had ten written questions on this whole subject, which we have answered in detail. I had ten urgent questions to answer in the National Council, two urgent questions in the Federal Council. There have been five requests for distrust as far as I am concerned. There have been three oral questions in Question Time. The financial offices – two financial offices, about ten staff – have not even examined them, but have examined them twice, because the Court of Auditors has requested that very specific aspects be looked at again. That is why the financial offices, once they had checked, came here and repeated this process, have examined it for a second time. The People's Procuratorate has examined what is a speciality in that, as usual, the Public Procuratorate checks when a citizen says he feels unfairly treated by the state. Then the People's Procuratorate checks to join this citizen. In my case, the People's Procuratorate has begun to determine, to look at, and has confirmed the accuracy of the procedure. The Court of Auditors has carried out the audit, and I must also say here that my officials have informed me that there has never been a single procedure, a procedure involving a person, in a audit of the Court of Auditors. So in that respect, perhaps, a certain speciality. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of these announcements by the Social Democratic politicians, judicial authorities have determined that the public prosecutor has found that a judge senate has been employed, the Supreme Court has been employed, the independent judicial system has looked at the whole in detail for more than two years and, in the outcome, honourable Member, has put everything back. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Tell me why!]] Their ads have been rejected, and thus all these institutions, the competent administrative authorities, the financial offices, the independent judicial system in two years' examination of prosecutors on judicial Senates and Supreme Courts, have said that I have acted completely correctly, and the association and its institutions have acted completely correctly. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Since you're making a number of calls, maybe I can make the whole thing a little unpleasant for you. I was accused, Mr Matznetter, by you and by the Social Democracy that I had personally enriched myself. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You didn't pay the 10,000 S!]] I cannot, of course, put this on me as a Minister of Finance, and I have therefore sued the Social Democratic Party. They are still hiding behind their immunity and cannot be delivered by Parliament. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Deputies! The SPÖ was given a judgment of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters on 22 February. October 2004 condemns for the realization of the objective record of evil remorse. The Social Democratic Party has accused me of being a tax reduction, which is generally also called tax evasion. – The Social Democratic Party was sentenced by the National Criminal Court for the realization of the objective record of evil remorse. The SPÖ in Carinthia accused me of having committed criminal acts. – The Social Democratic Party of Austria, the state organization of Carinthia, was sentenced by the Oberlandesgericht Wien for the realization of the objective state of the evil remorse. The SPÖ accused me of having committed criminal acts a second time in Carinthia. – It was sentenced by the State Criminal Court in Vienna for the realization of the crime of evil remorse. The SPÖ once again accused me of shortening taxes. – It was sentenced by the Commercial Court in Vienna. Mr Pilz, who is going to speak in my opinion, has blamed me on another matter, but quite certainly in these two years in which I have been attacked very strongly. – He was sentenced by the State Criminal Court in Vienna, and he was also sentenced by the Commercial Court in Vienna for the same accusation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you do not want to say that the Court of Auditors report has something to do with this! He's throwing all the other things in front of you!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to you: The only thing left on this question is nothing but the attempt at a party-politically motivated desavowing of my person, a party-political attack, where we see exactly what is left, namely nothing! On the one hand, therefore, party political attack, party-political desavowing, no restraint even in any intervention – but on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to relieve the population of the economy. We have record employment in Austria, Austria is an absolute show country, many are today orienting themselves to Austria. And with this, ladies and gentlemen, we have every reason to be strong self-confidence and can be proud of our Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11025	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11048	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kogler said that it was “comodian”. – I can tell you, Mr Kogler, that comedy took place on 20 July. The report started on 1 June 2005 when it was allocated to Parliament. ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== November, and today this comedy comes to a conclusion with six files. As the only colleague, Schönpass, the report was received, and Federal Minister Grasser answered the questions. Everything else is polemics, scandalism and media. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is right to discredit this Court of Auditors report! In this Committee of the Court of Auditors, the objectivity, style and level of this committee have also been heavily damaged. I am otherwise with colleagues Kogler, on our basis of discussion, quite properly ‘on the way’, but in this committee and in the matter of homepage, Mr Kogler, the measure has been exaggerated. The whole thing had no style, and I believe that the political rights and fundamental rights were massively damaged by you by using the Presidency to help your opinion and your views to break through. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this audit case, there were results for the external audit of the financial offices, and they said that there are fewer audit cases, that despite fewer audit cases, there are multiple proceeds for the financial office, that it was recommended to introduce uniform audit intervals, and that the Court of Auditors has stimulated an expansion of key figures. There was no tax liability, there was no corporate tax liability. There was a comprehensive transparent examination procedure, and it is quite clear: We recognize the results and decisions of the independent courts – in contrast, you do not want to accept this and to question it again and again, and that cannot be all right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is: The Court of Auditors has examined. The fact is: The opposition shall call into question the results of the examination. The fact is that there was only one goal in this report, namely to harm the Federal Minister. I am not his defender, he has defended himself here today, I wish only one, colleague Kogler: We should let the Court of Auditors re-use more style and level, we should not produce scandals in order to justify ourselves to the people! That's not how the style can be. I wish you, Mr Kogler, more feeling and level and more reasonable in the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11101	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11122	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On page 46, the Court of Auditors, not the committee chairman or a simple member of this committee, but the Court of Auditors, notes that: ‘The RH complained that there was insufficiently a level of action in favour of the existence of a tax liability – in particular the objective enrichment of the roof and the subjective will to enrich the application.’ What does that mean? – There is an authority in charge of the Finance Ministers and at the same time the one in charge of them. This authority raises the question: Is the head of that authority taxable? The Court of Auditors then notes that ‘the objective enrichment’ of the Minister of Finance and ‘the subjective will for enrichment’ in the Industrial Union has been ‘inadequately raised’. What does that mean? – The Finance Office has “inadequately raised” whether the Minister of Finance has enriched itself. It has ‘inadequately established’ whether the Industrial Union has thus pursued an intention to enrich the Minister of Finance. That is what the Court of Auditors notes. If you want more, if you want a harder, more destructive judgment of a public body, Mr. Finanzminister, then that could only be a criminal court. The Court of Auditors has gone beyond its limits. That is to say, it is clear here – and also on this point, Minister of Finance, you once again told the House in today's search for justification for the truth; I am seeking to obtain and have the protocol examined in this respect too – that the question of your personal enrichment has not been examined or inadequately examined! Now we come to the facts, to the very simple story. It is indeed – and this is an exception in the Second Republic and at the time of this Federal Government – a very simple, very simple story to tell. At the beginning is the Secretary-General of the Industrial Union, who publicly states that he has given money to the Minister of Finance because he agrees with his policy and wants to support this policy. – So public statements in “profile” interviews by Lorenz Fritz, who were literally repeated many times, also in this house. As a result, in the name of the Minister of Finance with the money and with a clear, subjective prospect of enrichment by the Industrial Union – that is to say, this question seems to be positively clarified by the Court of Auditors, but obviously not by an Austrian financial authority at the moment – an association. Who's in the club? – The chief is his cabinet head, other cabinet members and a section head responsible for the execution of the tax right in the ministry and as auditor for the financial services of the association. [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: So I think that’s great!]] So an association like any other, Austrian associations usually look like this: a cabinet chief, the other members of the cabinet, a section head. But, well, all of this is not illegal, except for the subjective enrichment of industrial associations in connection with other data features. Then the money is consumed for the well-known homepage, which has never been fully activated; that is from a certain point of view, and that was an answer to a urgent request by the Minister of Finance, who has made us all aware of the affair. Certain parts have never been activated, and contracts have been awarded for the activated part. To whom have the orders been awarded? – To personal friends and schoolmates of the Minister of Finance! Schulfreund Jandl with the company FirstInEx has been assigned to create the website. Friend Meischberger has been assigned to create other services for the website. There are two or three more friends, you know the list, she's been presented several times in this house. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr. Pilz, that could never happen to you because you have no friends!]] Then the Minister of Finance refers to honors, lecture fees. Whenever he gives talks, he says: I hold the lecture when a certain sum is transferred to a personal account on which Karl-Heinz Grasser insists. This can be understood precisely from the accounts of Bank Austria. He wants to set up a foundation, and there's too little money there. How does the foundation suddenly get money? – From the association that manages the website. Next point, this can be continued, and we are getting more and more into the details: The whole thing now ends up at about the same time at financial offices and at the prosecutor's office. As one of the first, the then head of the economic group of the Public Prosecutor's Office Vienna Dr. Erich Müller gets it on the table. Dr. Müller – which has not yet been known to the public at all – states in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Economic Group in writing that not only is there a tax duty, but the judicial value limit has clearly been exceeded and therefore the suspicion of tax evasion is clearly and clearly justified. Then the case comes to the order-bound prosecutor, who is solely responsible for political cases, top cowards, sharks, stadlers and now in several facets Karl-Heinz Grasser, to prosecutor Klackl. He is given a clear indication from his minister that at the end of this procedure the recruitment would have to come out. The prosecutor's doing everything he can to get set makes only one mistake. There is a need to establish a tax duty in order to ensure that a recruitment procedure is conducted at all. The prosecutor, who wants to recruit, sets the tax liability and then wants to stop. The independent judge of the State Court of Vienna, who draws the act and says: No, we force you to order an expert to conduct the procedure! To the surprise of the prosecutor, the expert notes that the legal value limit has far exceeded. The prosecutor decides to stop again. A next judge senate draws the proceedings and says: That's not the way it is, it's not the rule of law! Again from the front. In the third attempt, there is simply no independent judicial body that could defend itself – the procedure is closed. Now the public prosecutor's office in Vienna is black on white proof that there is a tax duty. At this time, however, the State Secretary has long been present, organized a deputy section head, who has again organised a comment on German income tax law, quoted by officials of the relevant financial offices and told them: We are now making a small exception, the Finz exception. This time, it is not Austrian income tax law, but a no longer valid comment on German income tax law; not because it is a no longer valid German finance minister, but because the result must be the same as that of the prosecutor, with the small justified hope that it will not disturb anyone in the ÖVP if one says that it is a duty of tax so that he can stop, and the other says there is no tax obligation so that he does not have to issue a decision. - That's how it looks. That says a lot about the head of the Ministry of Finance, but that says a lot more about how two government parties deal with a Ministry of Finance and a Ministry of Justice. In every rule of law in the world, a finance minister from Karl-Heinz Grassers would not sit on the government bank, but on the bank of a criminal court. That is of course. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Hey, hey, hey!]] What would come out at the end of a court procedure, that can only judge an independent court, that cannot judge any National Council. But to ensure that, despite Grasser, despite Minister of Justice, despite finance ministers, despite section heads, a serious judicial court procedure must be possible despite the fact that the National Council is responsible. It is the task of the National Council to ensure that the right of guidance, the means of intervention and political power are not abused. And that's exactly what we're talking about here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Thank you!]] If, with the help of a serious and excellent and up to the limits where criminal justice should actually be used, these two bodies, the National Council and its institution, the Court of Auditors, are still able to enforce consequences from their findings, or there are government parties that signal: In this Republic, the power can go beyond all laws, in this Republic the principle applies, a Finance Minister is the only one who does not pay taxes, in that Republic the principle applies if it is against Minister of the ÖVP or the Freedom Party or the BZÖ, then the rule of law is systematically suspended!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's the question you'd have to ask. We therefore no longer discuss a case of Karl-Heinz Grasser – we are discussing a case of Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is not the political culture of Karl-Heinz Grasser alone, that is the political culture of Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel: the extradition of the rule of law to protect his friends in the government! [[Abg. Gahr: These are submissions, Mr. Pilz!]] That's why it's happening, and that's political responsibility. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you cover someone, if you're willing to put everything under the carpet, you can't expect the Minister of Finance to say: No, please, I want this to be revealed, but by the Federal Chancellor! It is not only the chancellor who can be expected to protect the Austrian rule of law from finance ministers such as Karl-Heinz Grasser and State Secretary, such as Mr Finz. [[Abg. Ellwall: Who protects us from fungus?]] We are so far as the rule of law needs this protection. That is exactly what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors has made an important contribution to maintaining the rule of law in Austria in its report. The Court of Auditors cannot do more. The National Council adopted this report, discussed it and now has the task of making what could and should be possible to do with political consequences. If criminal justice cannot be determined if even the financial authorities cannot issue positive decisions, then it must be possible to remove the political obstacles that render the rule of law ineffective. [[Abg. May. Regulator: What does that mean? It's set!]] If these obstacles are called Wolfgang Schüssel and Karl-Heinz Grasser and a majority of the National Council is not ready and unable to do so, then a majority of the Austrian population will have to do so. If the rule of law cannot work, it needs a clear political signal. As an opposition, we will continue to try to give the Court of Auditors, its reports and its findings a chance. If the majority prevents us from being implemented together, then there is only one great hope: that political conditions will also change in such a way that the political regime can no longer hinder the Austrian rule of law in this way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: As in Upper Austria!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11308	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11340	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I hear from my group, now it is going to be objective again – of course it will now be objective again. I am referring to the Court of Auditors' audit on the audit departments at the financial offices. The review focused on five financial offices. As a result, the Court examined the extent to which the operational audits fulfil its tasks, namely to ensure uniform taxation or to prevent the reduction of charges, to what extent the selection of the audit cases and the control and control systems available were appropriate to support these objectives, and to what extent the tax requirements imposed on the basis of operational audits were met. For example, the Court of Auditors criticised that the number of operational audits and tax audits fell by a quarter in 2003 compared with 2000, as well as the development and introduction of the additional results. By an improved risk analysis, it is now the case that fewer tests are taking place, but that is the case, which means that sometimes, of course, the additional result is also developing accordingly. To the criticism of the Court of Auditors, to his assessment that some 95 percent of the extra earnings spent were paid only 34 percent, it is unfortunate that God's financial management is obliged to set taxes. That is, even if you know that the taxes, which have been determined as multi-success, are not transferable, you still have to find them. This also serves, for example, to withdraw fraudulent companies from the market by making a bankruptcy claim against them. It is therefore necessary to include additional results. Only one third of the added results – in my opinion, this is not really a representative cross-section of five financial offices, where 503 cases have been subjected to this analysis, because we have 81 financial offices in Austria and I do not think that this can be particularly representative of the five audited financial offices or all Austrian financial offices. The Ministry of Finance – the Minister of Finance has referred to it – takes the results of the Perception Report very seriously. It is gratifying that the recommendations and criticisms of the Court of Auditors have been largely reviewed, improved and implemented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, for example in the reform of financial management, with the increase of 300 persons in the number of auditors. So many recommendations have been implemented, and that is gratifying. I hope that my controversies will continue in this factual way and will not re-polate, as we have heard so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11382	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11419	Why so cry after materiality? We are honest, but we should finally deal with the matter. Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, I have too little time to really get rid of this, but the following three points very briefly: The Finanzamt für Fees und Verkehrstaxen in Wien has found that if an association uses grants in accordance with its statutes, the gift tax is free of charge. The Minister of Finance has repeated the same in his reply to the question. - Well, that's how it is. However, the statutes of the “Agreement to Promote the New Economy” contained the establishment and operation of a homepage only by the end of 2001. This association was removed in 2002. In 2002, however, the homepage went into operation. This means that from 2002 onwards, the obligation to pay tax will have to be given or will have to be given if it goes according to the statutes. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the government parties: However, no gift tax has been paid, although both the person paying and the person receiving it are obliged to do so. An interesting open question. – In any case, so much for your “business”. The Minister of Finance mentioned in his statement that he had done a lot through the reform of the financial offices and also introduced the so-called independent financial Senate. – In fact, an interesting instrument, Mr. Finanzminister, because exactly this independent financial Senate in Linz has expressed itself in an absolutely comparable case against your presentation in your answer to your question. In this case, it has also been a question of whether funds have been used in accordance with the regulations. The appealer brought an appeal, and the decision of the independent financial senate was – I may quote – as follows: “In fact, it is not possible to reach the statutes, because then it would have been in the hands of associations and corporations to determine the extent of their tax liability at any time (doralt,...)” – that is what the independent financial Senate says. And he goes on to say: "The independent financial Senate agrees with Doralt's legal view that when assessing the tax liability, it is not possible to reach the statutes of the adversarial capital company, so that the reference given by the appellant to the parliamentary question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance of the 10th century. October 2003... goes empty.” – So an independent decision by a financial office, Mr. Finanzminister! And one last thing: You, Mr Finanzminister, told me in the Committee on your income tax duty and declaration of your advertising costs that you are not obliged to say that you are subject to tax secrecy. Mr Finanzminister! If everything's okay, why is the Finance Minister of the Republic of Austria hiding behind the tax secret? A very simple question you should answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11474	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11495	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Minister! High house! I became this issue on 20 July. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, gave no instructions on June 2003. This freedom of guidance would have been the sole result of the provisions of partiality. So I was obliged to act wisely. ==References====External links== In June 2003, two requests for information were made and a relatively short response was given to this request, namely eight weeks, I asked the President of the Finanzlandesdirektion Wien/Niederösterreich/Burgenland to me and, after summer, asked him how he could do this with his personnel, and he said he would take care of it. I have told him that I do not wish to have any interim results, nor do I want to have the names of the speakers, but before this reply goes out, I would like to see the draft implementation so that I can perceive my political responsibility. – It happened exactly that way. In order for the relevant authorities to coordinate, about ten persons met at the Vienna Financial Office at a joint meeting: the tops of the Financial Office for Fees and Taxation, the tops of the Financial Office for the 4th, 5th and 10th. The district, as well as the so-called department, is an institution in the financial management which is available for consulting the financial offices. So these were experts in the various tax areas to ensure a uniform interpretation of the tax laws. This body has advised itself without my knowledge and has come to a common result. This joint result then became to me on 10. I presented it on July 2003, and after examining this joint outcome, especially after examination of the tax grounds, I released it. In the issue of the “Agreement to Promote the New Economy” was examined in accordance with the gift tax law, corporate tax law and VAT law. With regard to the request for information to Federal Minister Grasser, that has already been explained – and this has already been examined – in relation to the income tax question. You, Mr Gaßner, always quote a professor – as if there were no other – that is, Professor Doralt. [[Abg. Faul: There are no many independents!]] For example, there is also Mr. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Michael Lang, Ordinarius for Tax Law at the Vienna University of Economics, and he found this result to be perfectly coherent and in order. So there are other professors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I point out that I would be a “whitewasher”, back to the sharpest! I have never intervened in this procedure in any form! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The accusation “whitewashing” implies implicitly the accusation to the civil service that it has acted unlawfully, and I would like to draw your attention to this and stress: I present myself to the officials who have really worked this out thoroughly! When the Court of Auditors examined the case, these two financial offices took up the case on their own initiative, re-examined it and came to the same conclusion so far! The reference to other cases does not take effect in so far as the individual requirements are always to be examined in detail, and one cannot compare superficially and externally one tax case with the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11566	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11598	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! After a number of interruptions at the meetings of the Court of Auditors, it is now possible to discuss and conclude the report on the external audit of the financial offices in plenary. On the topic Homepage let me comment briefly: The financial effort for this was certainly high, but I believe that there are also very different topics than constantly dealing with issues that have been dealt with on the right, which is confirmed accordingly by the intensity of the various examinations. Two financial offices have examined twice. The People's Procuratorate has been involved. The judicial authorities have been involved. Requests in the National and Federal Council, corresponding employment in the Court of Auditors with them! And all these tests have shown that everything has passed correctly! Wouldn't it be appropriate to discuss SPÖ's debt policy instead?- Oh, my God! During the government period of SPÖ, from 1970 to 1986, the government debt ratio increased by 280 percent! As a result of this huge debt, we still pay €7 billion per year, without removing a euro of debt, [[Abg. Oils: That must not be true!]] Money that could be used much more efficiently for the economy and growth, for location security, for research and so on! Further example: OEIAG. In recent years, this has developed from debt holding to a good and profitable equity company. Since 2000, 6.3 billion debts have been reduced; the ÖIAG is de facto debt-free! This federal government has managed to limit government debt and for the future to create a solid basis for the next generations, and yet funds have also been generated for – I can only mention here – economic packages, tax reform, growth and research, employment. As a result, Austria has been able to position itself in the leading field in Europe. All this under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 2005 budget implementation confirms this good policy! – In reality, only the opposition has a problem with this good policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11644	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11668	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to start by thanking you very much for the fact that the evaluation of the Court of Auditors' work has also been very positive in terms of the results of the examination, and I would also like to express my thanks to the staff, and I would like to point out that, of course, thanks or positive mentions are very likely to contribute to the Court's reputation. In this context, I would also like to point out that this report contains not only the homepage but also a total of seven audit results, with, of course, the external audit at the financial offices that has been most discussed in the public. I would also like to point out that it was mentioned that a case-by-case audit was carried out by the Court of Auditors: That's not the case. It is true that this is an external audit carried out by the financial offices, where the Court of Auditors has examined the extent to which the financial offices take account of the uniformity of taxation and whether it is prevented from reducing taxes, and also whether the control and control instruments are sufficient to ensure equality and the success of taxation. So, after Mrs Schönpass has already explained the Court's recommendations and the Court of Auditors' insistences on this, I do not think that I should like to make this point further in my speech, but I would like to say in the context of what the Minister of Finance has mentioned today and what has also come out in the context of the opinion procedure, that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been largely complied with in this respect, or that they have been complied with in accordance with the promise. I believe that the Court of Auditors has made a significant contribution to ensuring the level playing field and also to the equality of taxation. The second point of this review was, of course, the examination of the equality of taxation, and it has also emerged that there are regional differences in the tax collection. I would like to mention that in Vienna, for example, 13 percent of the associations are taxed, in other federal states, such as Lower Austria or Burgenland, it is 6 percent. A total of more than 108 000 clubs account for around 9 percent. We have pointed out that, in any case, an analysis should be made of the reasons for these regional deviations, and in addition, access to the BMI IT Central Association Register should be provided in order to be able to learn more closely about the formations and deletions. As part of the overall audit, the completed procedural steps in connection with the monetary contribution from the Industrial Association to the “Agreement to Promote the New Economy” or in the course of the process in respect of donation tax and income tax towards the Association or Finance Minister Grasser were subject to an audit. I also think that I do not need to go further on what the Court of Auditors' recommendations or commitments were. I would just like to point out that, in the context of the fact that there has been insufficient detection, there is no evidence of this, and as a consequence of this, further surveys by the courts have made necessary. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] I would also like to point out that, in the meantime, since January 2005, the proceedings have also been brought by the courts, and in this context I would like to mention that the examination, whether there is a tax liability or not, has not been carried out by the Court of Auditors – nor will it do, nor does it belong to it – but we have been subject to the procedural steps of an assessment. In this context, it may be very short with regard to the reputation of the Court of Auditors, to the reputation of control, that, I think, as an audit and control body, we can also point out that, in examining the award of grants of benefits and grants, the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been taken into account, or have taken action, in the field of Austrian Post AG, which is currently being discussed, with regard to the focus on retirement, early retirement, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Not least was a success to be noted in the examination of the ASFINAG concerning the buildingless Herzogberg Tunnel, since the recommendations of the Court of Auditors were also taken up by the Office of the Styrian Government, but also by the ASFINAG itself. In the context of this, I think I have to mention very well that control within the meaning of the institution, that is to say, in the sense of the legislation, is necessary that further work is needed to further develop and deepen the control. There have also been considerations in this regard in the Convention, and I think that the reputation or credibility of democracy depends on the fact that control works accordingly. Finally, I would like to thank you in particular for your recognition of the Court of Auditors' activity by your statements of speech as objective and immaterial, and I can assure you that the Court of Auditors' activity will continue to be designed and carried out in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11738	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11759	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Dr. Moser, you have made very clear – for this we have always been grateful to you and also to the staff of your institution – that control is a central element, not only in a democracy, but also in an economic context. We are concerned with this control, and that is why the Court of Auditors is the starting point of the oppositional control task for us. You, as President of the Court of Auditors and your institution, are in itself an institution of Parliament and, in that case, an institution also a controlling opposition. That is the meaning behind the one sentence that has already been quoted repeatedly today. This important institution of the Court of Auditors, the important person you represent, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, has clearly stated that the facts that are insufficient in terms of the existence of a gift tax liability are insufficiently raised. Mr Financier. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of This is the dictum of the Court of Auditors, the dictum of the President of the Court of Auditors, and you too, Mr Finz, with your “Girlands”, as the Commission, as the various financial offices et cetera have assessed, do not come around. It has not been raised sufficiently, it has not been fully raised, and that is why the question of the obligation to pay tax has not been finally clarified, and therefore we are holding up as an opposition and the science in the person of Mr. Doralt continues to maintain the accusation that you, Mr. Finanzminister, are liable for a gift tax and that you have committed a tax offence and that you are no longer going to be Minister of Finance! Mr Finz, you have a different speech about the entire history of debt. And your presentation, Mr Finanzminister, on general aspects of the financial economy which you have brought back today, and on debt and government budgetary development, has nothing to do with it either. The subject, content and essential focus is this tax liability. The question has still not been finally clarified, the facts have only been raised insufficiently. There is a need for an investigation committee. As an opposition, we in the Committee on the Court of Auditors must always insist that the charging policy will finally be another one. They usually invite only people whose information is limited with their majority. We have a comprehensive approach to our load proposals, to our designations of persons, and in repeated cases you do not follow that approach. This is just the qualitative difference to the past, so to speak, of the negative quality aspect of a black and blue/orange government, that you simply interact with the control body of Parliament that you are the Court of Auditors as an institution of Parliament with your cargo project, with your charge behaviour. On the other hand, we are repeatedly protesting, here and also in the Court of Auditors Committee. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The procedural defects in this causa have already been quite clearly explained, and I have also mentioned the various load deficits. Due to the importance of the case, it is in the international context – Mr. Finanzminister, you will hopefully also read international newspapers, magazines – that there is a bad political culture in Austria. The fact that the legal culture, which is the responsibility of politicians, is not improved by you, by Mr Finz, and ultimately by Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, but rather undermined, has already been partially read in the international media. Think of parallel cases in Germany! I know, each case has a different dimension, has other details, only: There, political responsibility is assumed and steps are taken very quickly. There are resignations, there are consequences, there is also a minister there, especially if it is clear that funds of interest are used by him personally and he does exactly the tax policy that is in the sense of this representation of interest which gives him funds. This is the cycle that we strongly criticise politically, where you do not have the political morality to suffer the consequences, which in total affects both the rule of law and the political culture of Austria. That is why, Mr President Dr. Moser, I am grateful to you for your clear words. I would be even more grateful if you put it together that overall the The majority of the government in this House would be more on the side of the Court of Auditors and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11826	Mr Neudeck spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11850	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! In her speech, colleague Moser claimed that the Court of Auditors is an institution of the opposition, and only this one is the control right... – No, you have said that an institution of the opposition, because only this one is responsible for the control rights. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: I said to Parliament!]] I am right to say that the Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament and is paid out of the Federal Budget and not from the funds of the party financing of the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11897	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11918	Mr President. High house! I need to address a few arguments that have been brought here today. First: Secretary General Lopatka has made it clear that the opposition is a purely political question that the arguments have in no way been dealt with objectively. High house! There was no other Causa to be treated here during this legislative period, as well as this one. All the ads have been returned by the criminal authorities. We have had many urgent questions here, parliamentary questions. There were extensive statements by Mr Finanzminister, the Secretary of State. And the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has also confirmed what you are saying in all the documents he has submitted, and even now in the oral statement. So here's a big difference. It is claimed that we are preventing the loading of information persons. We have defined a number of persons in agreement, and they have also been loaded. If a person, that is, the chairman of the committee, invites someone on his own initiative and then says: Well, if he's already there, you'll have to agree, then that's not an argument at all. And if even interruptions are made in the committee without any reason to help with the breakthrough of one's own opinion, that is certainly not justified. I would like to say once again: The Court of Auditors is not a committee of inquiry, but it is a matter of discussing the Court of Auditors' report and finding out what can be done better, and we have already heard from the Minister of Finance what has been the outcome, all of which is done on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. But one thing I would like to take very special note of. I must point out to Mr Pilz's statement that the Grasser case has become a case of a bowl because the rule of law has been removed from the rule of law. Please, all the components of the rule of law that operate independent courts. No one has put anything out of power here, but it has been proved that everything in All right! Because something does not fit you to claim that we have put the rule of law out of power, is already a very strong piece. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this sense, I should like to ask all of you to take note of the Court of Auditors' report, which is really well-founded.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11972	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11994	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister, it is already clear to me that this is not right for you as a personality of the "pageview" generation, of public life if you are in criticism. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, you are not entitled to go out there, Mr Federal Minister, and to slip into a martyr's role and say: After the evil reds, what they want to attach to me!, just to quote that. [[Call the ÖVP: But it is true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – The same tax justice applies to you as to any other Austrian, as to you and me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if I can follow Mr Lopatka's strange ideas, I could also say: Perhaps the Minister of Finance in Kitzbühel has been looking for the proximity to Mr Gusenbauer. You don't know, as future Federal Chancellor, he might have thought of something. That could be too. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back, Mr State Secretary, on the basic question of fiscal justice. You can tell us what you want, in fact, this will apply to your officials in your environment – ask the officials once! The President of the Court of Auditors has indeed raised regional differences. This income tax case of Grasser also appears to your officials in a different light, and many officials also see it differently. If I may cover the advertising costs very briefly: All of them as Members of Parliament are engaged in the reduction of advertising costs each year. In the question of kilometre money, the deductibility of diets et cetera, you are subject to restrictions and can put only part of your income as advertising costs. If that is true, what financial offices IV, V and X have said in Vienna, then it is true that our Minister of Finance has been able to charge a multiple of his annual income as advertising costs, and that is why: He's not subject to tax at all. – Yes, what does that mean, Mr. Finanzminister? Either you have several incomes that you have not declared to us and which only know the financial office, or you have dropped more than you earn as the Minister of Finance of that Republic. The Skurrile, Mr. Federal Minister, is just that: If that were true, you would have reduced advertising costs for an issue that a third party paid you. When I transfer this to a Member or to a Minister of Finance, Mr. Finanzminister: Tomorrow I'll be looking for a sponsor who'll hand me money. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You will find none!]] I'll take this as an advertising cost. The most important thing is that this sponsor remains anonymous, that he should not be mentioned. Where that would lead, to the darkest cells of party financing, you can imagine that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12074	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12095	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! One of those who try to clean up another: The President of the Court of Auditors once again stressed that the statements in the Court of Auditors' report are ‘things’. And it is clear that the financial services sub-ordinated to the Minister of Finance, who have duly examined him, have apparently not been sufficiently high and therefore cannot take their audit results seriously. Therefore, everything that has been tried to clean-wash is hopeless from the outset. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the Court of Auditors' report has also revealed that the KHG brand, which is to apply for this homepage, is a synonym for the overall appearance of this federal government, a synonym for political arrogance which manifests itself in the fact that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs is supporting us... – Mr. Federal Minister, if you think, for example, you would have known from the outset that the SPÖ has commissioned a study aimed at your disassembly, and yet you are trying to handle the tax as the highest “sacrifice” of the Republic of Germany in this way by means of a construction presented by Mr Pilz in detail and thus as the highest “sacrency” of the tax advantage, then this is more than political arrogance. [[Abg. Lentsch: Desirable dreams!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: If you say that is...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] But it is also an example of this government preaching water and drinking wine. For example, if we read outside in front of the Federal Chancellor's Office banners telling us that we need to work more and have more effort, then we note that this obviously applies to all, only to the members of this Federal Government, for they can even pay for the advertising for themselves. But it is also an example of how this Federal Government is practicing the committee. After the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has been the chancellor for many years, we are now being shown how we are simply sitting down on problems that you can't hear and see anymore and which you don't want to take note of. Whether this is the Minister of State, whether this is his colleague Gehrer, it will be eaten until perhaps someone forgets something. But one thing will happen: The voters won't forget that! One thing, however, is also typical, and that lies in the person of Mr. Grasser. The Federal Minister is also a human being an interesting appearance: First of all, he belongs to the Freedom Party whose chairman, Haider, pushes him up, so to speak. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Hard to go down with this party, the Freedom Party will leave! Mr. Grasser leaves his own political home, but at the same time remains true to the style he has learned, namely that he does the right as it fits him. – Just as Mr. Landeshuptmann of Carinthia is currently demonstrating to us by simply ignoring the Supreme Judge’s words of the Constitutional Court, so Grasser ignores his own tax legislation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] This means that we have to put an end to the last mystery, namely that it is a successful finance minister, as we should be suggested today: Today, the “successful” finance minister has had the same budget deficit as the so much educated Minister Edlinger in 1999, only with the small beauty mistake that the entire family silver is already wasted, wasted and the deficit has not improved. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is why we are calling for: KH, go, and please take the Liesl Gehrer right away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12182	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-158 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. [[14:52:07]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12233	Before we come to the next item on the agenda, I will inform you of the following: The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mr Magistrate. Herbert Haupt has renounced his mandate and, in his place, Mr. Elmar Lichtenegger has been appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12279	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12298	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12313	I warmly welcome the new honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[14:53:17]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-159 D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, series Federal Republic of Germany 2005/8 (1266 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12346	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12376	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! A chapter in the Perception Report is the project Chipcard, the e-card, which is always sold by the government groups as an innovative state for all people in Austria. The fact that such a century-old project, as it has always been titulated, is also a very large part of it, has been found in this Court of Auditors report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] One point is: There are very high project additional costs – there are 27 percent, say: €27 million the insured had to pay. For other projects it is 16 percent – so you see that a lot of money has been spent. With regard to staff expenditure, the Court of Auditors also found that on average €94 000 were needed per employee in this department. The Minister for Employment has pointed out in the Committee that the employees did not have sufficient qualifications. In my opinion, therefore, it is all the more necessary to discuss and criticize the fact that very high salaries have been paid here. There were, and so did the Court of Auditors, from 10 percent to 96 percent higher salaries than the collective contractual salaries and on the other hand, a very low qualification of employees. So there's another example of this: If you want to go through projects on the part of the government groups, you're not going to be expensive for taxpayers, insurers, and that's being thrown out of the window. [[Abg. Großruck: Are you talking about the BAWAG?]] Furthermore, an informal organization was commissioned, the “Research Industrial Software Engineering”, where there was no commercial right, where there was also no report of secondary employment on the part of the university for the professor who participated there and where there was no written contract with the association. This association was commissioned with €2.22 million as a direct award and not according to the Federal Procurement Act. – You can see here another example of how the government fractions are very sloppy about insurance and taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12416	The next speaker is Mr Schöls. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to put the clock at 4 minutes, because we are calling the urgent ones at 3 p.m. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12438	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have seen once again as the Social Democratic Party is in pain that the electorate has deprived you of responsibility for ruling, because everything you have started to think positively about is now being mis-decided. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] The idea of the e-card is one where social-democratic Social Ministers – Hums, Hostasch – have not brought anything together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the current era, a positive project has succeeded. They are hard to deal with, and you will have to tell your self-administrative officials that this is a bad project – because this is not the way you are talking about e-card here in the Court of Auditors and everywhere, and Your officials in the self-services of the health insurance company outside say how good this project is! – And that’s the truth, because the insured accept this project, and the insured person does not care what you try to beat out on party-political small money. I would like to thank Mr Kandlhofer and all those who have managed to find a reasonable, feasible solution in the main association. And I'm just telling you: If you've been taken from the voter's account, take your own responsibility. I am not talking about Mr Puswald, who, in a kind of self-denial, delivered a spectacle that is embarrassing a few minutes ago, for he is the last to blame the Minister of Finance for his political past. – But that’s another story, he has to do with himself. [[Abg. Grandruck: What was it?]] But you've done it to make the image's surface disappear like the socialist-dominated banks. In your era the “consumer ” has disappeared, the “AZ ” has disappeared! They have tried to get the VOEST sick – it has become a success story from VOEST! You are now trying to discredit post-privatisation – which you have launched at European and Austrian level – because you are not responsible for it. At the e-card we have seen that we do not need many officials for positive participation, and the Republic will continue to be able to live with it. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their examination, but I also thank the social security workers, who, despite their policy, are in favour of They do so well against these institutions and the institutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12489	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:05]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on the continuation of the successful launch of the stock exchange (765/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12520	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 765/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12761	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Mr Molterer as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12785	Mr President! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am in favour of an Austrian post, and the best guarantee for this is this exchange, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I'm just a little surprised why my colleagues were complaining, actually I would have expected the SPÖ to clap. Do you know who this sentence is from? – From your party member, former State Secretary and Director General of the OMV Dr Ruttenstorfer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A good man, ladies and gentlemen, who has our support in this respect too! I don't know how he's doing if you're running such a Director-General's consideration. – I do not want to say “child-moving” when it comes to Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer; He's not a kid, but he's an excellent man, and he's right! By the way, he is not alone with this view that the stock exchange is correct; I quote: Postprivatisation through a stock exchange is positive. – Again no applause from the SPÖ, although this quote is by the former SPÖ Secretary-General and current Director-General of Siemens Austria. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: A smart woman!]] That's no one, quite the contrary: a really excellent expert! Damage: Again, a Director-General's consideration in SPÖ! How do you actually deal with your comrades when they understand something about the economy – or is that perhaps a contradiction to SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Or: I have here the statements of a buyer for the postal shares who said he would be able and willing to buy some percent of the postal shares. He's called Dr. Hannes Androsch; he's not supposed to be quite unknown to you either. Why is it that the SPÖ, when a former SPÖ Finance Minister working in the economy, says something right for me, has a problem with it? Is it not possible that SPÖ has a problem with its policy, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is actually a sign of where economic competence is not at home. By the way, Director-General Androsch even gives us the tip to privatise the post up to 75 percent, because he believes that the 49 percent may not go far enough. That's not the opinion of Hannes Androsch. I remember Van der Bellen also asking the question whether a full privatisation of the post would be possible. – We are not going that far because the post should remain red and white in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But how does the SPÖ react now? That's very interesting. How SPÖ business experts react, I told you, but how does the SPÖ react? There is once the Socialist Trade Unions' Group, which says: We're for the stock exchange, but we're strike! – So I'm not quite clear how that fits: We are for the stock exchange – the statement of Mr Fritz – but we are strike! Do you know why you're being stretched? Because at the present time the stock exchange is not quite optimal and perhaps should only happen in a year. At the same time, however, the same postal trade union Fritz negotiates the conditions of the exchange. So as this fits together, the FSG has to explain. In contrast to this very difficult attitude, the Christian trade unions understandably adopted an absolutely constructive attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You said: We want to get the maximum out for our employees and don't let ourselves get stuck in front of the party cars. How does the SPÖ react? – During this hike through the city centre, the SPÖ President Tumpel went to the top of the Chamber of Workers, among other things. And I've had the impression that he's been mourning old times. He apparently mourns after that time, where it was common for the workers' chamber secretariat to have made the personnel decisions of the national officials, ladies and gentlemen. Tumpel obviously mourns these times. Mr Moser, his sign of the SPÖ's spokesperson, sees as always the fall of the evening country. This is not new: In each action, Deputy Moser sees the downfall of the evening country. And then SPÖ chairman, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer... [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] He's here, thanks for that! [[Call the ÖVP:Where? Where?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He must have been hiding!]] Alfred Gusenbauer says he needs a thoughtful break. This is the most interesting of all statements: Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer needs a thoughtful break until June! And now I'm telling you: If this is the reaction of a former state-bearing party to economic issues, then it is actually relatively revealing. Mr Gusenbauer, I tell you that you have had time to think about it since 1996. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Why? It is obvious to you in your agitation that in 1996 – if I remember correctly – the climate of the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, both SPÖ, was at that time, and there was a labor agreement in which the privatisation of the post was determined – that in 1996 – that is a little back for you, Mr Matznetter, you are too young – there was a decision here in the House to privatize the post, until 31. December 1999, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] I wonder, Why is something for a SPÖ trade union, if it does a red minister, right, while, if it does another government, it is demonstrated? So this logic of the union is not understandable to me, Mr President. Speaking time, Mr Gusenbauer: In 1998, by the way, this decision was repeated again under a SPÖ government, yes, even then a division was made – today the SPÖ would probably say, demolition –, a division in post, Telekom and bus. A right decision that, I think, is absolutely okay. Why Stand You're no longer on what you welcomed at the time, ladies and gentlemen? This short-term political memory is actually one of the so-called, or at least you do not claim it by yourself, state-bearing party. I wonder, Has You didn't think about it at the time, did you change your mind? Then tell me! I tell you, we have remained consistent because we consider this path to be the right one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When, if not now, ladies and gentlemen, is the time to implement this decision of the time?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This may also be a fine difference between ÖVP and SPÖ, Mr Matznetter: The SPÖ is not so bad when it comes to announcements, but when it comes to implementation, it leaves the political courage. That's the difference to us: We do what we think is right, not only in words, but also in deeds, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] By the way: Why is the right time now? – I think that the post is now well prepared, and I thank the post staff members that they have carried along this reform path of post management offensively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, the post is well positioned today, does not need a strategic partner, but is able to do the right thing together with the owner's federation and the owner's employee or wide spread on the stock exchange modern, ladies and gentlemen. We therefore want to create the conditions for the post to be able to be competitive and competitive in the future. We want to allow the post to expand and thus contribute to job security. That is our strategic consideration of why we now consider this step to be correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not only do we want to go to the stock exchange, but we also want the employees to be able to participate in this stock exchange in their own company. By the way, an old Christian-social idea: wide distribution of property in the hands of workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know, I appreciate you, but I was very surprised, I candidly tell you how I saw you comment on this subject, where you obviously had to argue politically. How defensively you have addressed the question of opportunity for employee participation for the employees of the post, that was disappointing for me. I tell you that a trade union official would have to take this opportunity offensively and say: Yes, our employees want to participate, our employees will participate, and the more, the better! On the other hand, you said: If it has to be, we'll take it if it's offered to us! - I don't understand. A trade unionist would have to do something else, but he would have to say: Yes, with this opportunity employee participation!, which, by the way, we offer at the post of course also to the employees. Again: While marching outwards, negotiations are being conducted inwards. Unfortunately, I only found it when I was properly informed – I saw it on television at least – that during this migration to the Ministry of Finance, a series of talks by the Federal Minister of Finance Grasser, to negotiate this question, was rejected by the Group of Socialist Trade Unions. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Now I ask you: What are you doing? It is not possible to reject an outstretched hand for negotiation, simply because it buys the SPÖ differently. I am a trade union member – at the right department, Fritz Neugebauer – and I tell you, I do not understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I always thought that the union would be interested in talking to the government. There is an offer for negotiation – it is rejected. Shame! That's not my understanding of union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore make this post-Börsegang a success story, and the SPÖ – but that is its problem – is once again on the wrong side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not new to economic policy, particularly national policy. The SPÖ has almost always stood on the wrong side in the question of national policy, and the national debacle in Austria has a name: Social Democratic Party of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! They have – and this has to be broken down on the tongue – between 1980 and 1992, alone in these twelve years, 4.4 billion € in tax money, 60 billion schilling, pumped into the national lights – and the effect was: 55,000 jobs less! So if this is economic competence, I would say that you still have a lot to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. The nationalized person has been one of the real children of concern and has moved down Austria's economic location, and only when we arrived in this constellation have we clearly understood ourselves in the Federal Government on a privatisation course. Today the ÖIAG is debt-free, ladies and gentlemen, there must be no tax money in it, and the companies that are still in the ÖIAG have a higher value. [[Complaints and bravails with the ÖVP, as well as congratulations with the liberties]] But also for the companies that have been privatized, ladies and gentlemen, this path has been worthwhile. When the stock prices are discussed here, I always have the impression that there is one or the other at the SPÖ, to which it runs coldly over the hump when he hears the word “share”. I want to “translate” it and say that the stock is the expression of how much a company is worth. And actually, a good stock price is something we should be proud of because it expresses the value of the company. Böhler-Uddeholm: share value quadrupled; Vienna airport: Stock value almost tripled; voestalpine: share value almost tripled; Telekom Austria: share value more than doubled; OMC: Shares say and write up to the sixteen times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the OMV is worth sixteen times more today than before privatisation! And now someone else says that this screw should be turned back because the state should have more influence again. Do you know what that means? It is the SPÖ business spokesman Moser, who in turn sees the fall of the evening country, and no one contradicts him except the SPÖ economic expert Ederer, Ruttenstorfer, Androsch, but no one from this club. Neither do you, Dr. Gusenbauer! Does that mean the SPÖ really has the retro course as a goal? This is also the fundamental difference: We trust entrepreneurship – and you want to steer the economy. We want to reduce the state's influence on the economy – you want to expand the state's influence. They want the state as the owner of such companies – we want a broad ownership, where employees also have a possibility to acquire property. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. On the wrong side you are standing and still standing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Speaking of employee participation: this is also a real success story, and the SPÖ is also on the wrong side here. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone has acquired shares at voestalpine worth 1 000 €, then today he has ownership worth 4 800 €. 1 000 € invested, today a value of 4 800 €. That's a positive thing! I'm proud of it – why aren't you? – that approximately 10.3 percent of voestalpine shares belong to employees in the foundation. That's a good thing! Why don't you say we want to negotiate employee participation at the post? It is a pity that the Socialist trade unionists' group, because it does not fit in with Mr Gusenbauer, must not negotiate, as seems to me. Or, for example, Telekom Austria: If someone, Dr. Gusenbauer, invested €1,000 in the shares of Telekom Austria, today he has an equivalent of €3 380. Or if someone invested €1,000 in the OMV, do you know what the equivalent of today is? – 16 400 € equivalent! These are employees' property or large spreads of property. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what we want. You are on the wrong side, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Propos success story: The Voest – I am Upper Austrian and therefore I know how important and emotionally occupied this topic is – is a success story since privatisation has been consistently implemented. If you're standing on the wrong side, you can calculate the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. They from the SPÖ have done fear-making and polemics because the Upper Austrian election campaign has obviously dominated. It has become clear to me that the SPÖ – and this has shown the then election campaign – does everything for power. They claimed at the time that the total sale of the Voest is necessarily a demolition, and in three to five years the company would no longer be available. – Economic spokesperson Moser. Erich Haider, Upper Austria, has said that insanity is to prevent. Tens of thousands of jobs are in danger. The Voest-Börsegang is an economic debacle. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is quite different: Today, the Voest is as successful a company as never before, writes profits every quarter, has more employees than before the stock exchange, is gratefully a thousand apprentices. The shares have risen, and in Upper Austria, my home country, is investing. The management and the employees of the company know it was right. We are standing on the right side, you on the wrong, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Proposing incorrect page: If I look at what you have to do with the SPÖ in the banking sector, I have to say that this is just the classic wrong side. Bank Burgenland: First, damage is caused: € 416 million, which the taxpayer has to catch – and then is privatized! Deputies Moser would probably call it “soldout! ” This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ?- Oh, my God! Further: The value of Bank Austria at HVB when this exchange of shares was received was €1.7 billion. – Now this is only more than 500 million €! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The destruction of property is called that, ladies and gentlemen! This is your economic concept that we do not share! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, want to strengthen the economic location with this stock exchange, to secure jobs and to offer post to the company. The mail remains red-white-red!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13056	On the issue of an opinion, the Federal Minister for Finance has given himself power. Grasser to speak. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13077	Mr President. Appreciative Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that, after this speech by Mr Klubobmann Molterer, all will probably be convinced of the accuracy of this exchange. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I can only try – and I would like to use this opportunity – to present from my point of view why I am convinced and why, in all discussions with experts, with post board members, ÖIAG has been confirmed to me that this exchange is correct and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, let us first ask why we are even going on an exchange! Why does it make sense for the post to go to the stock exchange? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, because we don't have any money!]] – Because with the 51 percent remaining in the property of the Republic of Austria, we guarantee security and stability for this company – the post remains red-and-white, as Klubobmann Molterer said – and because we link 51 percent state property with 49 percent private shareholders and thus 49 percent private thinking and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, what better for a future-looking company than to say: Security and stability, on the one hand, private business access for the successful future development of the post on the other? – First argument for the correctness of this path! Second argument: Stock exchange is nothing but a fitness program for a company. And being fit, ladies and gentlemen – whether for a company or for all of us – means nothing but providing services in such a way that the clientele is satisfied. The company Post will be successful on the stock exchange if the client says: That's a great business! Just as this company has done in the past three years – congratulations to the employees! – because the post was European champion three times, as far as letter delivery is concerned, and thus showed what excellent quality it is able to achieve. The best way to secure jobs is through satisfied customers – at least we believe in the market economy. And that's what we want, ladies and gentlemen! We want both secure jobs in this company and its independence. Both are our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third argument, why stock exchange. – Because we thus open up access to the capital market. Anyone who analyses the situation of the post can see that liberalisation also applies to us in this area. And liberalisation means that other companies will push into the Austrian market. That is to say, these want to take away our postal market shares; they want to post letters and packages in Austria and so on. And what are you doing? – One tries to defend market shares. What does it take to defend one's own market if you want to contact or purchase customers and make marketing promotions? - You need money! Money can be obtained through, among other things, the capital market. [[Abg. Forbidden: Or from the owner!]] – We are happy to do so too; I am going to speak on it, Mr President. That's where we have complete consensus. What else do you need money for, ladies and gentlemen? – One is the defence of the home market, the other is the question of growth. Attack is the best defense! In other words, not only let one push into one's own market, but also say: We want to be successful in other markets and grow with them – just as the banks and insurance companies have done, whether the Vienna City Tables, the First, Raiffeisen and so on. Jobs in Austria secured by a huge success path in our neighbouring countries! But you need money, ladies and gentlemen, and you get it over the capital market! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] The only argument I've heard here so far: If you need money, why is the money for the stock exchange coming in now going to the ÖIAG? I would like to answer this question, ladies and gentlemen: That is because we did not take the money away from the post because we did not do what we were supposed to do just for budgetary reasons. On the contrary: In the company Post we currently have 300 to 400 million € in liquidity on the accounts. 300 to 400 million €! I can tell you that we have discussed the following question: Do we make a capital increase in the course of the stock exchange and say that the money that is now coming in should benefit the company to a good extent, for the most part – as always – immediately? All the experts have told us that this would be an absolute business nonsense in view of the fact: €300 to €400 million on the high edge, i.e. the “Kriegskasse” stuffed for a growth path, plus equity ratios that the private economy can only dream of. Therefore, the very clear statement – you can now take experts as much as you want, experts without numbers, both domestically and abroad – was: Now to give the money of the post doesn't make any sense in the business, but only when the post has grown, if you have made the first acquisitions with a full “war fund” when it needs the money, then this is about capital increases. Ladies and gentlemen, today my commitment as the owner of the ÖIAG is that we will participate in capital increases in the future. Although the money is now going to ÖIAG, because so much money is already in the post itself, we will, if the post needs money for further growth, make it available to the company Post AG via ÖIAG. So the post will have the money if it needs it, will finance growth and thus secure jobs. That's the right way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, why a stock exchange? – Thinking I would ask you to pay tribute to our previous exchanges and to the objectives we have pursued since the year 2000! We've always said: We want Austrian core shareholders! What are we doing now? – 51 percent are owned by the Republic of Austria. Nothing can happen at all. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Who owns the company?]] The company is mostly owned by the Republic of Austria! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Nothing can happen at all, ladies and gentlemen, because security and stability are given! We want to take part in the 49 percent we sell, in the greatest possible way, and we want to show the Austrian population that they can share in the successful development of the company Post. We want to benefit Austrian small shareholders and micro shareholders, the employees. Therefore: Austrian core shareholders guaranteed! To the decision-making centre: Of course, the decision-making centre remains in Austria, which is secured. The decisions are made in Austria from Austria. On the unit of the company Post: Of course, the company's unity is still preserved. Research and development where it is relevant for post. Of course, this can continue to be done in Austria. Therefore, total: Good reasons why this stock exchange is the right and necessary way. Why exchange, ladies and gentlemen? – Because you and we have had good experience with stock exchanges in the past. In order to remind you a little of the way governments among social-democratic German Chancellors, among social-democratic finance ministers, have gone a few examples; the list is much longer than I can do now. 1994: majority privatisation of VA-TECH, VA-Technologie AG by the issue of 51 percent via the stock exchange. – Social Democratic Federal Chancellors and Finance Ministers decided at the time, 51 percent – not 49 percent, but 51 percent! – to be handed over via the stock exchange and to privatise most of the time. We're not saying that. We say: This company remains red-white-red because it is an important strategic participation! We hold 51 percent. In May 1994 they said: OMV to the stock exchange!, at that time reduced to 53 percent and then, some time later, mostly handed over the shares in the OMC via the stock exchange, so that, precisely in May 1996, ÖIAG's shares were reduced to 35 percent. So there too, under your responsibility, has been privatized largely through the stock exchange. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... the ÖVP!]] Then I have to say: Congratulations on the ÖVP that at that time she was able to stand out as a smaller coalition partner and made right decisions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Obviously, there have been some questions where social-democratic German Chancellors and finance ministers have done what the ÖVP has recommended and what was right and what has proved to be good for these companies today. March 1995, ladies and gentlemen: Issue of 27 percent of the Böhler-Uddeholm via the stock exchange. October 1995: Issue of 31 percent of VA Stahl AG via the stock exchange. March 1996: majority privatisation of Böhler-Uddeholm AG by the delivery of 47.7 percent in the course of a second placement – and thus was very much below 50 percent. And I could read to you now companies that you have completely, 100%, not even sold through the stock market, but completely privatized. Ladies and gentlemen! We have privatized 49 percent in 1988, even if you are using the partnership, at that time – today we still have 51 percent! And if you look at all these companies, you'll find the same thing. Look If you look at the joint venture, look at the OMV, look at Böhler-Uddeholm, look at the Voest! Klubobmann Molterer said it, and I really remember the campaign that you did two years ago. That is what has been said – Mr Moser, I can quote it to you, I have it here; They said: The Voest company will no longer exist in this form, it will be smashed, jobs will be lost! – Today: Austria's core shareholder, companies in its United, 500 jobs more than at the time! – This is the reality of our policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means very clearly: If you look at these companies then ask They noted that today the companies are better than before, the companies are much more successful than before, the sales have increased, the profits have increased, and the companies have, to a good extent, also more employees in Austria, as the example Voest has shown very impressively. And, ladies and gentlemen, Klubobmann Molterer has also mentioned this: These exchanges have paid off for the employees of the companies! These exchanges were good for the stock exchange of those who took part at the time. A monthly salary in the compound at the time means that you have an annual salary today – out of a monthly salary became an annual salary! The example of the OMV – 1 000 € at the stock exchange, 16 400 € now – was cited accordingly. That's why I think it's an advantage to post. Ladies and gentlemen, there are salaries there which are on average relatively low. Many Posters earn 1 300 to 1 400 € net per month – relatively small income. I would therefore like to say to you: We should take advantage of the opportunity together, and we want to give these employees a real advantage! We want the identification of the employees with the company because we know we need a motivated team! [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe the BAWAG can...!]] That's why I also invited and said: Let us now carry out the discussions on this employee participation so that everyone sees that we have no other interest than to lead to success in this process of exchange with the employees – for the company, for the employees, for a growth rate that can secure jobs. We have – if you see what we have achieved for the employees – chained a package about which, if we had negotiated it now, every staff representative – I am very sure – would have said: So there has been a really great success! – It was discussed about the sale to a streetside. We didn't do that, but we said: 51 percent in the Republic, IPO, company independence, company remains red-white-red! Service right: The employees were concerned about the law of the service. We have said that the right to serve remains the same as it is. That is, ladies and gentlemen: About 60 percent are officials in this company and therefore fully insured. More than 10 percent of the employees are in the company for more than ten years and are therefore appropriately insured accordingly. And we have assured, that everything remains the same as it is. The employees remain so secure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have decided here in the House a postal law which is important for this company, because it ensures an attractive framework, just before the liberalisation that comes upon us. This is an attractive law with good conditions for the company Post, an important basis also for this step now. And I talked about employee participation. We have got a list of a group within the post workforce that has said: We have eight points to ask for. The postal law was a point. - Done. Sectoral collective agreement. – The collective agreement, we know, is a matter for the social partners. I assume that this is done by the social partners. Nominations in the context of collective treaty negotiations. - Got done. Point four: the letter system. – Law decision has already been taken. Point five: Pension scheme. – It already takes place legally. Point six: Right of employment and remuneration. – As mentioned, already implemented. Point seven: Job center. – Consensually transformed into a career and development center in the company. Also done. Point eight: Employee participation. - Nice to meet you. Seven of the eight requirements have been met, one of which must be implemented at the level of the social partners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And then, in an official round of negotiations, after being trade union-oriented, we made decisions, got another eight-point catalogue, more demands, which I say: It is our interest to work out every point and try to get to a common package here too. But, as I said, the interest is to come to an exchange fair and together with the employees, whereby I can assure you: This stock exchange is well prepared. Since April 2003, one has worked on the independence of the post, has restructured in the company, has created the conditions for this exchange. That means it's well prepared. Klubobmann Molterer said the stock exchange is nothing new. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only stress once again what was decided here in the House in 1996. I have the post-structural law ahead of me. In Article 95(1), point (b) of Article 95(1). 2 says: “... The Society – meaning the PTA – “has its seat in Vienna. ==References== The company has to launch a stock exchange on 1 December 1999.’ ==References== December 1999 – the joint venture at that time. Two years later, in 1998: Poststructural legislation. Article 1(1) 4: “The postal, postal and telecommunications services of Post and Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft are subject to privatisation concepts in accordance with § 11a para. 1.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Post und Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft has the best possible conditions for privatisation.” That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, both in 1996 and in 1998 we have set the time for the exchange, and we want to privatize it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – By the way, decided, among other things, by Alfred Gusenbauer and President Verzetznich, both of whom were sitting here in the House at the time. And then, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago was not the talk of strike. At the time, ten years ago, when the stock exchange was decided, it was not said that this is irresponsible and this is not for the company, but then ten years ago it was set the time and said: We want to do this because we have already implemented a number of successful examples and have had good experience with stock exchanges. And that's why I'm telling you, we're ten years after that, and the time is now the right one to implement this stock exchange, and it will be for the benefit of the employees, for this company and for the location Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] All the decision-makers have talked to me, all of them – to me: the post board, the ÖIAG board of directors, the post supervisory board, the supervisory board of the ÖIAG. The post board, which needs to know best, the four board members who are directly responsible for this company have said: Please let us go to the stock exchange! Give us this order! Make the way free for this stock exchange! – Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is clearer at all! And if you want to talk about the time: If the post office says that if we have a situation in which the economy is running very well and the stock market has developed very, very well in recent years, I would also say: Let us be a question of competence when the best time is! And if you say that the experts should decide when the best time is, then I can only tell you: The experts in the company, outside the company, in Austria, outside Austria tell us: Do it now! Now is the best time! – That’s why I think we can actually rely on that. As Klubobmann Molterer raised the question of competence: Considering the balance sheet on the one hand, when you think of the national debakel, the “consumer”, the Landesbank, the Bank Burgenland, the BA-CA sales abroad – now UniCredito, because it didn’t work; 1 billion € lost the stock management central savings bank in Vienna with this transaction! – in dubious lending at BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply say, relatively valueless: We should do this and you should leave it to the experts! I would not go so far as to ask you – with this current account, with this debacle – how, when and if to go to the stock exchange. You should not ask us to let this be decided by experts. And the experts have given us this way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: This post-post exchange will enable growth prospects for the company, it will secure jobs for employees, it will be good for the capital market and thus for a successful post-post path in the coming years!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13265	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The debate opens up to Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Desirable time: 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not to contradict the interests of our Parliament completely, I would now propose to end the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: After that!]] The arguments of the clubman Molterer and the Finance Minister Grasser were so convincing and so overwhelming that there can hardly be anyone in this House who can be against privatisation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Moser can do it! The Moser can do it! I trust him!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I have looked a little at your ranks during the speech of the Clubman and the Minister of Finance. If there were not many ladies in your ranks – if they were not – I would say: You have looked very old in this debate, and you have not been! [[Call at the SPÖ:Highly motivated!]] I now have the greatest sympathy for those of you who will now come to the speaker's seat in the course of the debate as a defender of nationalization and who must defend what cannot be defended, ladies and gentlemen. It all argues that this step should be taken, but I know of course – I know the political ritual,I know the political script, that was still so in every privatisation process: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Oh cheer, oh Freud!]] [[Abg. Oils: Incense! Why don't you give me a break?]] All arguments, all data and facts, all experiences speak for successful privatisation, but the SPÖ staged a fear propaganda, developed horror scenarios: “Company is being smashed”, “jobs are being lost”, “family silver is being scorched”! The reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks quite different! You yourself know this well enough, and Mr President Vergestnitsch, who now smiles, smiles because he knows, here is argued against better knowledge and against the arguments of a tortoise, an éderer, a androch by your people. [[Abg. Verbatim: About your argumentation!]] The facts and facts look like this, ladies and gentlemen – we have heard it – that deficient, needy, subsidized state enterprises have become successful, profit-oriented, listed, internationally successful companies. That's the truth! But let us look at some facts in detail, ladies and gentlemen! Let us consider, for example, the balance of assets of the ÖIAG as the first point. Subject: ‘Family silver is grounded’. – When this government took responsibility for the ÖIAG, the debt amounted to €6.3 billion. Today: Debt free! – In Schilling, please: [[Abg. Neugebauer: What's that in Schilling?]] Almost 90 billion schilling debts. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness! We have always celebrated it.]] – Depleted in these six years! Now you can say: That's relatively easy, because you've ruined the family silver! - Well, let's look at the balance of assets: [[Abg. That's right!]] In 2000, ÖIAG’s portfolio of assets amounted to €5 billion, and today €8.5 billion! – Explain this to me: How do you do if you spoil the family silver that the wealth is 60 percent higher? You have to explain that to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, I am sure you will be able to explain this to me. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I don’t believe that!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He couldn't even explain it...!]] So not a speech, ladies and gentlemen, about the destruction of family silver, but about an increase in assets! Let us look at the situation on the budget side, in the state budget: For years the taxpayer was used to shoot billions into the national lights. What do we have today, please? – Additional revenue first through dividends from the ÖIAG and second through high profit taxes from the now successful profit-oriented companies! – So something better cannot be desired from the perspective of the budget: instead of having to pay to receive revenue! Mr Matznetter, you probably cannot argue that dividend income and Köst revenue are on the revenue side of the budget. [[Abg. Neudeck: But the SPÖ gets less on the black...!]] That may be my colleague. Third point: Economic location. – What, please, is there better for an economic location than that deficient, distressing businesses disappear and successful growth plants arise? Let's look at the fascinating story of these now privatized companies today, and also how many other private companies recognized the opportunities of growth in Central and Eastern Europe in good time – sensational! All of Europe is actually envying us for those businesses that have so early recognized where today is the growth zone. And it is no coincidence that the stock prices have taken up the development that Clubobmann Molterer and the Minister of Finance have shown, but it is clear that these companies have just recognized the trends in good time and invested in these growth markets in good time. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The Bank Austria...!]] Fourthly, let us look at the question of jobs. At that time it was called: Jobs are being destroyed! – There is no example today of a privatized company where one cannot prove that the number of jobs has increased! – In Austria – let alone those jobs created by growth strategies in Central and Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But where? Where have the jobs increased?]] [[Call the ÖVP: In Linz!]] [[Abg. Murauer: In Upper Austria!]] Or let us look at the question of property! For example, let's take Linz's keyword: The Voest has more than 600 jobs since the last exchange, and 2 billion € have been invested in Austria – and not invested abroad. Skill You remember the time before the tax reform? Director-General Eder said: We have a concept “Austria 2010”. The only question is: Where will we invest? We're waiting for the tax reform! – We have decided on the tax reform, and the decision of Voest and the Director-General Eder was: We invest in Austria. This is a successful industrial policy! – You have always believed that industrial policy means that the state has shares in industry. It's all wrong! Industrial policy means: The State must set the framework conditions that are so attractive that industrial enterprises have a fair chance to operate successfully. These are our businesses today, and we are proud of these industrial companies, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: They are also responsible for the development of this country! I recently spoke to the managing director of the Austrian Business Agency, and he says they have many inquiries, but many say: You're heading for elections, and who knows what's going on afterwards; if I listen to what proposals come out of SPÖ travels, I'm thinking about investing in Austria. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is your responsibility! But, Mr Moser, I understand one point. In one point, my friends, I understand the fear of the SPÖ from privatisation: that is, when the SPÖ privatizes itself! You really need to get scared. Let's take a look at this: The largest asset destruction action – Mr. Klubobmann has already said it – took place in the banking sector. Where's a central savings bank today? Where's a country bank today? Where's Bank Austria today? Where's a CA today? – Yes, we have one to two percent of UniCredit, but that’s it. So the biggest asset destruction in the banking sector you have to answer. They also have the greatest asset destruction to account for in trade – example: “consumer”. They are responsible for the biggest asset destruction in industry – see nationalized industry. Ladies and gentlemen, you really trust to go out here and say: Please, we have economic competence!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Do you really trust that? Mr Matznetter, this will be a salto! [[Abg. Neudeck: (on Abg. Dr. Matznetter sage) Under immunity you can claim that!]] Let me also say something about the arguments: The post remains red-white-red. We open up access to the growth markets, to the capital market. We have a situation where we have to say: It is convenient for the company, for employees, for customers and for investors. And I also tell you that I was in the south of Vienna half a year ago and looked at the new postal distribution center. I was really impressed by what the post staff and management created here – congratulations on it! – and I said there on my way away that I promise one thing: When the post goes to the stock exchange, I can recommend good conscience to any potential investor: Draw these shares!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13579	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Matznetter. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13608	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Now, we have heard three speakers first of all Mr Klubobmann, who has made a urgent request to the SPÖ, with a few compliments for many very well-earned former members of the government of Social Democracy; otherwise a minister who has tried to quote half of our business spokesman from 2004 – we are still talking about the Voest – and then – and that is really the best! – Mr Stumvoll, who, out of fear of talking about it, says: [[Abg. Neudeck: (Uplifting from his place) Now you can recover after three good speeches! Now we can go! We don't need to hear that!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer:... we and not you!]] Why don't we stop discussing? – I can’t save you: We will have to talk about it, and we will have to talk a lot about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But you're going to be hard! Very hard!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: As long as you just talk and do not act, there is no danger of delay!]] But let's start with the question: Does a yellow post belong to the stock exchange? And precisely in this key question, let us look at what international development looks like: In the United States, where Ronald Reagan was president and thus one of the most essential promoters of neoliberalism, is there not there a state post? - But no! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Your model?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: USA as a model of SPÖ!]] Why is the post office in the United States a state post with 700 000 employees? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] You have no idea, deputies. – Because, under economic criteria, it is not possible to produce a supply in the midwest, in the south of the USA, in the area. [[Abg. May. Molterer: So the model of Matznetter is Reagan! Reaganics!]] Because that doesn't fit together: public procurement and capital. Why is that so in England? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Reagans! Thatcher!]] - Exactly for the same reason! [[Abg. Neudeck: Now you’re coming to the Blue Mauritius, aren’t you? It's a brand!]] What are the only countries in which there is a post on the stock exchange? – The answer is relatively clear, and now we are talking objectively: The Netherlands has a regional structure which corresponds to a single agglomeration area. Logically, the public service task in this area is a lesser one. This particular feature does not, of course, recognise the cry from the back seat, because they are concerned with something else The old principle of “less state, more private” is now executed here by the example of comprehensive postal services. [[A lively ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Neudeck]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (on the seat of the Abg. Mr Matznetter, where are you sitting? – That’s wonderful: “Screams from the back seat”!]] This old principle has already been applied to the privatisations of recent years. When was the voest privatized? – When the course was announced by the so-called expert Mr. Grasser, Mr. Wolfgang Schüssel, with €32.50. What did the SPÖ speaker Moser say? – He said at the time that the substance value justifys a value of 55 to 80 € alone. Where's the stock today? Mr Molterer writes it in his request: at over 80 €. Yeah, what happened? – Mr Schüssel’s possession of the taxpayer, the taxpayer she has had wasted in conjunction with Mr Grasser and perhaps with the support of a few speakers here in the house – the majority of investors who are unfortunately not the employee participation fund, and they have invested a price gain of €50 per share. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Privatized she has been!]] Now the Austrians are supposed to buy the post, which they already own today, even as a popular share, in the hope of getting a piece of cake. But – and now I stick to the public service task –: A post office, a land supplier, a comprehensive supply has lost nothing on the stock exchange! You could learn from Raiffeisen! - Where's the Ferry Maier? Mr Auer is here. – Yes, what happened to Raiffeisen on the stock exchange? – Raiffeisen went with the east expansion, with the expansion areas to the stock exchange, but not with the small Raiffeise telephone. Why? – Very reasonable: Because they have successfully introduced the Eastern expansion society with stock exchange story – my compliment for that, Mr. Auer! - but: The same applies to the mail! And the SPÖ proposal is reasonable: If one wants to strengthen the post through a stock exchange, one should bring to the stock exchange the select area for expansion to the east, for the expansion of the logistics areas, for the B2B business with a reasonable strategy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: So stock exchange!]] This exchange of the daughter, Mr Molterer – I know that it is bothering you to hear here in the house about complex links; I tell you anyway – means money for the company, thus directly for the desired expansion. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Be careful, Mr. Matznetter! You know, pride comes before the case!]] Secondly, It means that the money comes from the mail. The budget hole of Mr Grasser, which is to be filled with the €300 million proceeds... – No? [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: He didn't understand!]] We have the proof: Already in the draft tax-change law in the previous year was a separate section for the special dividends included. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's just not true!]] My colleague stupidly took him out so that we can adopt the tax-change law together – and he has brought in the special dividends himself as an initiative proposal again! The truth is: The rural area is thus still at risk after the closure of a thousand post offices by the receipt of stock exchange financing into the core business of the comprehensive postal supply. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect!]] Wrong? – You will explain this to your black mayors if they are to mobilise for the National Council election! Secondly, There is no money for East expansion, because the money goes as a special dividend via ÖIAG into the state budget. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect!]] The mail doesn't get a cent anymore. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect!]] Fact three: Why are you doing this? – Because, as in the case of the Voest, you want to have the very large post capability reach €300 million. And I'll charge you, too, why. The Minister for Finance has just said: Liquid funds of Post AG: €300 million. Substances of the Post – we already know this since the failed attempt to scrape the mail to the Deutsche Post –: half a billion €. It is therefore only the substance value of the post at least € 800 million. Now someone calculates how high the 300 million – 49 percent of them – are: Under the substance value! Why? – Because this value is to be transferred to the pocket of private investors! And, as with Telekom Austria, they are not red-and-white investors at the end of the day, but, like Telekom Austria, in the majority of international investment funds and other foreign investors. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Androsch is not red-white-red?]] That's the truth. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect!]] They'll get the proceeds. [[Call the ÖVP: Tell the Androsch!]] This is the policy of the ÖVP: For those even more yield, even more in the pockets of those who have already had very high price yields. And quite honestly: We are a comprehensive postal structure, a still flourishing company that fulfils this task, but also an expansion of the post is important – therefore an own stock exchange of the subsidiary instead of the post itself. That is a reasonable proposal. You need not just a stop of thought, but a follow-up, Mr Molterer. [[Abg. Neudeck: But not from you!]] Use it, or you'll lose the match. [[Abg. Neudeck: But not from you!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14014	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Preferred speaking time and legal speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14036	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Matznetter meant that we need further assistance. [[Abg. Owl: Urgent!]] I don't know what discipline, Mr Matznetter. In any case, congratulations – less to your speech than to your retort trainer, which you seem to have employed, because you really have to be very well trained when you get out of here, twisting your own failures precisely in the national policy of the eighties and nineties and criticizing the successful privatisation policy of this federal government. This really belongs to an excellent coach! Perhaps you can distribute this so that the others of your group can twist it so perfectly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you, Mr Matznetter, are still going out of here now and criticise this successful Voest privatisation, then I must say something already belongs to it. And I remember that it was your group, the SPÖ, who, at the time this important company, took this demonstration company of Austria into an election campaign and into one, I do not want to say, Sudel campaign, but into a negative campaign, where you have insecured the employees, where it has been said, they are now being locked up, there are employees being dismantled, the company is being swept away. [[Abg. Großruck: “The Russians are coming!”]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] – This is irrational policy, dear colleague Matznetter! And if you still make yourself here today, instead of apologizing for this campaign, and still saying that you were right, then that really hits the bottom of the barrel. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear colleague Matznetter, only to remember what you said at the time: Klubobmann Cap then said in the course of privatisation that the Federal Chancellor had to live mentally in a Communist plan economy. – A little contradiction: If you privatize something, you live in a communist planning economy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who said that?]] – Mr Cap! The head of state, the senior election fighter at the time, said: The majority of Voest's shares will go abroad! Privatization is a community and a negligent concealment of popular wealth. Dear colleague Matznetter, your spokesperson Moser said: The ÖIAG gave 100 million in stock exchanges, a bundle of incompetence, with this policy the chaos of privatisation reached its peak. – Multiplicity of incompetence, ladies and gentlemen! What is the result of this successful privatisation? – We heard it today: The share value has more than tripled, this company's investment in Austria and not abroad, the number of employees has increased by 50 percent if you take everything together, and the employees have also earned their money due to the share value, ladies and gentlemen. – A positive mood, a positive atmosphere, a real success recipe for this federal government in privatisation. If you go here now, Mr Matznetter, and say: Because the stock price has risen so much, then, I have to say, it is again a turning point in the facts, precisely because you have just privatized this company positively, because in Austria you have created positive conditions and an atmosphere for prosperous companies, because there is confidence here, even among investors in the stock market. – Not post-communist politics – that’s what you want! [[In the direction of SPÖ.]] These are not bad capitalists who invest in shares, but these are also small savers, ladies and gentlemen! And because there is this positive atmosphere, this company has reached this upturn. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As this has also happened with the other privatisations, the stock market in Austria has been particularly good in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – No, no, unfortunately not, I say! Unfortunately not, unfortunately not! But maybe that's going to come to an end in the future. Dear colleague Parnigoni, you too were responsible for the debacle in the nationalized industry at the time! And we've heard it today: 120 billion schillings were squandered at the time, 120 billion schillings in the nationalized industry – and yet 60,000 to 70,000 jobs were lost! [[New calls from the Abg. Parnigoni.]] The “consumer” alone, this parade of socialist economic policy, has cost 15 000 people the job! And you are really making yourself up there and you want to criticize our positive economic policy?- Oh, my God! – Yes, do you really believe that we and the population have such a short memory? – Well, not at all! Maybe that's what your retort trainer can tell you, but the population will have a different opinion about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is really hard to believe that through privatisation in the field of ÖIAG, you have virtually reduced the debt mountain from more than €6 billion within five years to zero, colleague Matznetter. Nevertheless, the residual value of the companies in ÖIAG is much greater than before the privatisations. – You should do this to us once, Mr Matznetter, then you don’t need a rhetorical trainer, but then you would really be a good economic politician. So, unfortunately, that's really all you could represent here, and your party the same way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And now you're going to make the same game again at the post, even though the air might already be a little out there. In the case of the Voest, you have made this negative campaign perfectly political, not so unsuccessful for your elections. You just damaged the company and the trust. We could fix it to God! Just, people don't believe these fear campaigns at all. You can see it at the post office! Yes, even the staff representatives know very well that no one here in Austria – no one here in Austria! – Understanding this would be damaging to the company and, above all, to the population if there were no services in this important company. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr von der SPÖ! I am really excited about your speech and how you will justify your words to the Voest at that time. But we will not be influenced by all of this, ladies and gentlemen. As in all other cases, the privatisation of the post will be a sign of this success story of this government since 2000. And you will see that we also make this post fit in order to be able to stand in a stronger competition, that the value of the post will also increase, that the number of employees, where it is necessary, will of course also develop well and that we can also show that this Federal Government has implemented many, many success projects. Mr Matznetter, you have always voted against: You voted against tax relief, you voted against the guarantee of pensions, you voted against strengthening the security standards, you voted against the sustainable consolidation of the Austrian economic location – you will also vote against these privatisations. – But thank God you are not in the government, and I assume that it will remain this way for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14173	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Preferred speaking time: 8 minutes; legal speaking time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14210	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank – now again without federal chancellors! [[Abg. Großruck: What did you say about the ÖVP at the time?]] - About the ÖVP then? [[Abg. Grossruck: Last week!]] I've already told you to leave the church in the village! Propos Church: One sometimes has the impression that the dispute is being conducted as weiland the struggle of the Catholic Church against Kopernikus and Kepler: There's always something in the middle, and everything else is turning around! . I have even borrowed the comparison, as you will hear at this point, as the President-in-Office of the Council has already said on the occasion of the government negotiations, the so-called exploratory talks. – And this story is always heard out. You really don't do this easily, if you want to take a unogomatic position on this economic policy issue – but you should, and the Greens do. I'll explain this to you now. But again on the attitude of the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ: It's a good thing, then, that this isn't the case anyway, because your dogmatism stops where the post – I'm just going to go on, now already, at this point – will be red-and-white-red again anyway. So I can't recognize a privatisation of the post. [[Abg. Neudeck: Stock Exchange!]] I don't know where you see them: 51 percent remain in public hands – this is the red-and-white red with you – and it is good at once. Otherwise it's bad, but you have to make that up with yourself. What is good or bad is not exactly what can be said in the individual case, but you can develop it along a few criteria. On the other hand, the Social Democrats. In fact, substantial, but now actual privatisations have been launched in the 1990s – and I say that: Thank God! – that is, in areas – and there is now a hopefully mediating position – where it is really not comprehensible, why it would actually need a public owner, unless one is assembled or recognized or wants to have special strategic influences in itself at risk – but not where it goes well where production goes well, classically in industrial production. And that worked! Well, at that time we were even less asked than perhaps today, but we have taken this very attitude. And I have to tell you honestly: I find the conversations and discussions with Dr. Raidl very fruitful. - Yes, it was! I was already standing in Styria – that was between 2000 and 2002 – at that time: It is not an ideological, dogmatic question, whether Böhler-Uddeholm has a public owner in parts or even larger parts – that's not it! All right, if we agree on such conditions, then the real question is quite another! It's a lot better than that: What market do we find, and what about the EU? This is often a little more difficult. But under what liberalisation regime is a particular provider in this case? – That’s the crucial question! And here it is actually the art of the state to provide appropriate rules. Only then can it be answered how in concrete ownership conditions can or may not affect. It doesn't work every market the same way either. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka.]] – Yes, it may be that this is not very understandable for you. It is obviously a privilege of the ÖVP, as has already been said today, to present things even easier here than you understand it yourself. – But this is not a solution, it is not a solution for these things! – Strike it down. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Sit so high in Ross!]] Since you're animating me to sharpen the matter a little bit more, I can tell you why we're against this kind of way and this stock exchange – actually, it's a share sale via the stock exchange – the post – that's related to the previously said – because the legal conditions are not guaranteed, especially over several years, because no business concept is at least presented by you – thank God Mr. Wais has something in his face; only the question is how happy he is with what you're putting on to him now – and because third things are not at all... – now you finally stop messing up, because that's really unpleasant! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka.]] Mr President, this cannot be done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand why you want to do this at all, because you have not yet given particular expression in the debate. [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But the third criterion still comes: because it is not guaranteed what happens to the collected money, the capital. You could talk about all this, at least with us. – Therefore, a no to this partial privatisation via the stock exchange. However, they have taken the urgent – it is actually a urgent request – to present a success report. From your point of view, it's not easy for you. I'm just saying what I want to add relatively: For the most part of your reasoning, you are trying to find out special increases in value. That's what I'm saying, it's an ambivalent thing, that's already happening. If – art! – before the value at the time of which The type of privatisation is always particularly low, then it can easily rise. It is no longer easy to understand: Has it happened, therefore, because it is true what you say that the state or part of it is such a bad businessman, that the increase in value has almost exploded, or is it because you have so badly privatized that it can only rise afterwards? There are also such cases that you do not have them in your application. I can remind you of Austria's tobacco, which you have far below its value, which is almost recognized by the layman. I remember the VA TECH: That's where you're more clumsy. That's what it says. At the VA TECH 55 € per issue course were thought of, if not certain representatives of funds, even from small shareholders had anticipated to you that there is more inside, and at the end it was 65 €, and the thing was quite messed up. No fame sheet, but on this basis of course you can easily increase the value. According to this logic, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, the success would have been even higher, we would have knocked at that time by €55. But, please, stick to your logic. Next point in this context – this is a bit more difficult –: Deutsche Telekom, not even a simple case. So the history of the edition – which is where Mr. Oellinger knows even better – was not a fame sheet. That it is now worth the double, this has to do with general market transactions, but certainly not with your skill. Have grieved your own inconsistency However, you tried to get to the Swisscom, or was it the other way around, at least you've been so sniffing at each other, that then – and I say thank God – the reason prevailed, since this kind of start-up really would have brought nothing good. What, though, has remained in the final result? – The poor, in this case the poor board directors of the ÖIAG, had to lean their heads out of the window and get a laundry from you who first drove the people in there. So there are already other aspects of privatisation success. You can see things like that. Finally, I come to the post office: I'm telling you, it's not a privatisation at all. It could be good to get money back, but the question is exactly what happens to it. We have great concerns and are opposed because it is not certain that the money will be used in the mail. If you argue, it is such a liquidity surplus in the company that it would not be useful now, then you can understand the economic naturally and accept the argument, but it is not your confidence that then, if it is necessary, you will finally implement the capital grant when presenting a business concept. It's not even certain, although you promise – yes, but we don't believe it anymore, you've done enough else – that even if you're raising the capital, you'd have respect for the ÖIAG. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Vote with our request, that's where it stands!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] I must conclude by saying: Such an exchange would make sense if those parts were sent to the stock exchange, for which the economic and half-yearly also corresponds theoretically. This is questionable in this conception, in particular because the Universal Service Regulation already leads to you having a provider, redmail, who is a pure Rosinspicker, and is not at all recognizable that the Universal Service Regulation will once look so that it is a suitable regulatory body for the whole thing. If it is ensured that all are served by a reasonable supply order, you can speak differently, but you do not lead it in the shield, that is quite obvious. That is why I think that this is only the preliminary stage of a total privatisation that you are doing here. However, do not say that you explicitly and deliberately abandon the necessary framework conditions for the security of supply. Finally, to check all of this, get back into the tax bags and write any orders, awarded ads, everything as usual. I'd really advise you, 'cause it's time again: Pay your own advertising campaign yourself! This is really annoyed. You've already knocked billions of consultants and advertising campaigns!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14346	The next speaker is Mr Auer. His welcome time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! According to Mr Kogler's speech, I understand this newspaper article, where the statement of a former leading green politician, colleague Langthaler, finds itself in a clear headline: [[the speaker shall keep them up to date]] ‘Sometimes there are also stupid proposals from the opposition’. - Here you can read it. More is needed, I think, not to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been an opportunity today to have an informed debate on modern, forward-looking economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the left, Mr Matznetter, do you know who I really admire? – Your colleague Ederer, your colleague Ruttenstorfer and your former Minister of Finance Androsch. Because with such weak support on your part, leading excellent companies is on and on and off a master's achievement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Tell them that these people don't understand that they're wrong! Tell us here that these people, Ederer, Androsch and Ruttenstorfer, don't understand anything and are wrong, because they tell us clearly: Now is the right time, do it! Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand, because of the facts so far, we believe these three more than you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Go out here and present nothing but: Everything should stay with the old!, a bit of a delegation, a little complaining, not a lot to say – it is significant if Mr Gusenbauer is not here; obviously he himself is not quite well in his skin – to know nothing more about the statements you gave of yourself at the time of VOEST privatisation – you have to repent daily, ladies and gentlemen, and here go out in penance and say: Unfortunately, unfortunately, the government parties were right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That would be the worst thing you should do. Ladies and gentlemen, to VOEST privatisation. Do you know when the first time in the VOEST was privatized? - 1995. Do you know to what course because you criticise the last course of 32 €? – With 23 €! And then you think the 32 € would be a bad course, maybe yours was even better at the time. That is where I question your economic policy, and there you can only say, ladies and gentlemen: Bad talk – wrong location. Bad talk – wrong location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Economic competence à la SPÖ – and I believe that has made it clear to my colleague today – has been seen at the "consumer" debacle. Now I say quite openly, I had no pleasure in making it clear. You can also read my contribution back then. I regret it and regret it today that despite massive cross-subsidisation by the city of Vienna, such a company has experienced the biggest flop, which has led to an incredible destruction of capital, jobs and shopping opportunities, despite the massive cross-subsidisation by the city of Vienna. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not need to speak so intoxicatingly here – the word Bank Burgenland. I remember: Mr Haider from the SPÖ Upper Austria has indeed painted on the wall the great danger of the Russians coming. Now I am full of amazement that there are still two interested parties at the Bank Burgenland, namely the GRAWE in Graz and a Russian bank. I therefore assume that Mr Haider is already on his way to Burgenland to protect the Burgenland from this. At least I suppose so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The rest of the bank privatizations have been excellent. One time one meant that for Austria the bank was too large, for abroad too small, so one went towards Germany. In the meantime, all those who were proud of it must learn Italian. However, the influence is gone, ladies and gentlemen, and the destruction of capital has already been mentioned. I don't want to explain this in particular. Please remember, ladies and gentlemen, your economic policy, your failure, and be grateful that this government in the VOEST at that time, in many other areas, despite these resistances, has also experienced political difficulties. You know why? Ask your works councils in the Voest Oberösterreich if they are not proud that their participation for employees of over 10 percent has such performance. This is something that employees who identify with the company can be happy to do with immense things. Such employees should also be able to participate in the success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one important aspect of this post-marketing is one: a smart participation model also for employees, no question at all, a security of the output rate for employees, perhaps also under the premise that the participation or current yield is somewhat smaller, but there is a guarantee that the return is perhaps not quite as strong. Participation in the success strengthens the commitment to the company and is a positive motivation factor. – This sentence does not come from me. Do you know who he's from? – You can read it in yesterday’s German newspaper “Handelsblatt”. This is the Statement comes from the labour market spokesman of the SPD Klaus Brandner. Take an example! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Something else has been said to you, ladies and gentlemen. The district of Wels-Land is that district where I am at home; 65 000 inhabitants, 24 municipalities. There is a post-partnership in Bad Wimsbach with a trafik, in Eberstalzell it makes the municipality, in Sipbachzell and in Offenhausen a purchase store, in Weißkirchenn the warehouse and in Krenglbach – SPÖ-Bürgermeister, Mr. Gässner! - a store, a department store. Ask there, make a survey! Do you know what these people are telling you on the spot? – Now we have the chance to use the post partner for more than 50 hours, in the former post office it was 25 hours. Ask them what they prefer. – So much to your thesis, to your allegations. We think, yes, we are sure that this stock exchange will be a success, and we trust in the management, the employees. Be proud of you, too. You will also be taking part in the success of this company to employees in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14501	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. I would remind you that you want to explain a motion for a resolution in the key points, Mr Deputies. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14522	Mr President. Colleagues on the government bank! [[Call to the ÖVP: “College” is good!]] I am shocked by this historical knowledge of the nationalized industry. If it is claimed here that billions have flown in, one must also know where they have flowed at a time when the global steel crisis has reached a peak, where other countries have given lost subsidies and Austria has lent loans under Minister of Finance Lacina at that time. That's the difference, a very big difference! If you use the voestalpine today and it is so positive – we are all very happy about it – then everyone here knows that such results are not possible from today to tomorrow. These have been lengthy processes in the investment decisions that took place in the 1990s and now have their impact because there is a raw material price boom. China and India are the low-priced raw materials forces, and this leads to good profits now. But that has nothing to do with the stock exchange launch. You'd have to keep that clear. My topic, to which I wanted to speak, is actually quite different. This is where we need to highlight the reluctance by this federal government. I already said clearly that the VEST was sold too cheaply at the time. What happened and was tolerated by the Minister of Finance? – Due to the wrong time, you have donated € 630 million in voestalpine alone. The convertible bond alone was over €300 million. And this Federal Minister covers the fact that it was too expensive to finance here. Another point: The SPÖ has never opposed privatisation. We have just said that we need a core shareholder of the public sector, which ensures that these companies are also sustainable in Austria. That's an important point. And the story with Böhler-Uddeholm, with the voestalpine has not yet been eaten. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Now you're doing this bad again!]] There are already considerations at Thyssen about taking over offers. You have to hold it here. I also wonder whether this success balance, which has been presented here, is really a success balance. € 1.8 billion has been left to four companies: voestalpine, Telekom, VA TECH and Böhler-Uddeholm. Do you know how much that is? – These are 22 billion schillings left by the wrong sale. These are 10,000 single-family houses, you have to imagine! If you, Mr Molterer, are so great at these price increases, then you also have to say that through these privatisations € 4.5 billion has been redistributed to popular wealth. That you are of course happy about this redistribution, because the Raiffeisenkas has made a lot of money with it, I understand. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have no heart at all for the employees? That's social democracy!]] But do you know who made a lot of money? – These are the top managers, speculators and investment houses. Do you know what ÖIAG paid for these four privatizations? – It paid €150 million for four privatizations, which is 2.2 billion schilling! Then, of course, you wonder what the highly paid managers and supervisory councils are doing there. To post: That's where we're again afraid of a sluggish. We believe that this post-privatization, as it is now addressed, continues the post-privatisation process, the post-privatization of this federal government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] What's the post-harvest? – In the first phase, you have reduced 8,000 employees for five years. Director-General Wais has announced that there will be another 25 percent – 6 000 in turn! So the mail will be reduced. He announced the second – and for us it is clear – that the post offices will be closed: another 400 to 500. Why? – Because the dividend pressure will lead to this. Each manager, including Director-General Wais, will refer to § 70 of the Stocks Act. He says: I have private shareholders – and I have other shareholders. So if there's no other way, I have to close. I looked at the mail in Germany and in Holland. Both are placed there on the stock exchange. In recent years, they have saved about 2 to 3 percent of employees each year. This also flourishes this Austrian post. Look You're looking at the balance sheets of these companies! That's an important point. Then what's going to happen? - Post-hub two. Over the past five years, this Minister of Finance has taken € 570 million from ÖIAG. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is positive, Mr President.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: They never paid dividends with you because they never had money!]] – If you let this money in, you would have enough money to finance the expansion. I do not understand – and I am asking for information from the Minister of Finance – that when 300 to 400 million euros are inside the company and publicly documented that post-privatisation will lead to the expansion of the funding base, classified ads will be placed. This is a lie! The money doesn't get in the mail at all. It's enough inside. Then what are these sintering ads for? 1 to 2 million € cost such ads. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But there you have a bad price!]] You switch such ads to deceive the population. This is actually an immense process that is taking place there! I really want to ask you today: Tell us today: Can you guarantee that the jobs will stay at the post office? How can you guarantee that? How do you force a manager of a listed company not to use § 70 Shares Act? Can you guarantee that there will be no more post office closures? That's what I expect from you, then maybe we'd be calmer. That is why we also propose: We are not against privatisation, but we want to use the money from privatisation for the purpose of expansion. [[Abg. Murauer: Why do you stick to the post office like this? Why do you have to have an office? What do you need that for?]] Post Office is a historical term. Is it possible for me to do so? I don't care. It's important that people are safe and properly cared for. And that's not the case anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There are people who have to drive up to 30 km to the post office. This is the central point against which we are actually fighting! In this context, we make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14759	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Matznetter, presented in his key points, Mag. Moser, Renate Csörgits, Mag. Gässner, Eder and Collaborators are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14919	Mr Mainoni, Secretary of State, has now spoken. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14941	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to address the SPÖ resolution very briefly, because it is remarkable. This is, of course, a political discussion of the opposition with the government party, with only the balance sheet of the ÖIAG, as can be seen from the figures, clearly proving how successful the course of the Austrian Federal Government is. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] Let me address this motion for a resolution because it is remarkable. The first point, already quoted by Mr Moser: High-quality care for people is required by the post office. – The post was a European champion three times, I can’t say more about it. The greatest confidence is given by the Austrian population to post staff, which has already been confirmed by several surveys. So I can only say: First point already done! Next point: The post is intended to position itself as a comprehensive logistics provider on the market. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is already in implementation! Please consult the Supervisory Board on the employee representation of the Socialist Trade Union Party! This is already in implementation. – So this point goes empty too! Next point: Expansion strategy in Central and Eastern Europe. – This is exactly the strategy implemented by Austrian Post AG and the Executive Board. That's already being done. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, it's not done!]] Please take a look! That's part of the post strategy. – This is required in your request, although it has long been a postal strategy. I should now like to ask you to take a look at your motion for a resolution. There is stone and clear inside – I quote –: "The financing of the growth strategy should also be through the capital market. In doing so, Post AG could itself resort to a strategic share of 51 %, the proceeds from the stock exchange should benefit for the purpose of the expansion of the post....” Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what happens, otherwise nothing at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You can yell so much in between, it's so! This motion for a resolution has only been tabled by your colleague. A second area, however, which is much more important to me – and there the political debate shows the seriality of a political party – concerns the demands that have already been realized, and here is an essential point of employee representation. I am already very, very careful and evaluate very precisely the statements of the employee representation of Austrian Post AG. There are three essential points to which it draws, three essential points which are very important: First point: Jobs would be at risk from the stock exchange. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially dear representatives of the Austrian Post Workers' Office: It's changing zero! It changes with a stock exchange up to 49 percent of the shares of Post AG zero in the service contracts. It changes zero in the entire area of protected contracts for employees, namely that about 70 percent are fully secured. There's nothing going to change with the stock exchange at all. The jobs are now secured – and will continue to be secured in the future. A horror scenario – “Crash-Scenario” called it the trade unionist Fritz – a crash scenario, can happen with and without stock exchange. It is not thanks to God because Post AG has a good leadership. But there is nothing to do with the stock exchange, and without stock exchange, jobs can be just as dangerous. – So the first point is completely empty. Second point: Post offices will continue to lock. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to you: There was probably a wave of post office closures, which were very unpleasant, but where through mediation and countless talks and meetings it was possible to find replacement solutions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In fact, the existing branch network of the postal service under the Universal Service Regulation now guarantees a comprehensive supply. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have, however, taken precautions through the new postal law that such a thing can no longer happen. The Board of Management of Austrian Post AG assures that no branches will be closed until 2009. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's also very informative. The argument is: There is currently an infrastructure network, and this is the advantage that Austrian Post AG will have to future co-operators on the liberalised market. That is why we need this branch network, and that is why we need this infrastructure network. That is why there will no longer be any closures, ladies and gentlemen, with or without stock exchange – first of all secured by law, second by statements by the Board of Directors. The third point, which the trade union is constantly mounting, is a concept of the future. It is claimed that there was no such thing. – That too is wrong! I am really looking for Mr. Post-Employee Fritz, who has all the information from all the Supervisory Board meetings, but to make use of his information and tell the employees what is the matter: that the postal service provider wants to become number one in the logistics sector internationally in Central and Eastern Europe. There is a clear approach to this; there is a strategy for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the statement that the post office has no strategy for the future is also absolutely wrong! That is why I have doubts that the postal union actually represents the interests of the employees of the post office. It raises the question of whether there is something else behind it: party political interests, possibly electoral interests. In any case, this does not serve the employees of the post! Currently they get 10 percent dividend. This year, €9 million will be distributed to the post staff. This is proof of how successful the post is, with a profit of about €90 million! In the event of a stock exchange, ladies and gentlemen, the employees of the post can preferably benefit from shares. Also in the future, it will ensure that Post employees are insured under contract law in terms of service contracts, and that they will be able to participate in the expansion strategy. That's why I'm trying to get away from future strikes and from future warning strikes, as planned for next week before the ÖIAG, because one of them is risked: The reputation of Austrian Post AG, which is an excellent one, can be pitied by trade union actions!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15042	Mr Dr. Mr Matznetter. 2 minutes speaking time. Please pay attention to the Rules of Procedure: the facts to be corrected and then the facts! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15067	Mr President. Mr Mainoni, State Secretary, has claimed that the current planned stock exchange, as in the alternative measure in the SPÖ's motion for a resolution, will receive the money collected on the capital market from the post office for its activities. I'm actually correcting: The current privatisation concept is based on the fact that 49 percent of the shares are sold by ÖIAG and therefore the money does not come from the post office, but from the ÖIAG. Secondly, The Secretary of State has claimed that all 687... [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is not an actual correction, because the Secretary of State has not said that!]] Mr Mainoni, State Secretary, claimed that a satisfactory solution was found everywhere in the last wave of postal closures. I'm actually correcting: This is not the case! There are a large number of communities without sufficient care, for example the municipality of Liebenau in the Mühlviertel, which has to drive more than 30 kilometers. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15130	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15151	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, one thing is interesting: Who even caused it to come so far in Austria? Who has been in the government over the last 30 years and is responsible for not having done a modernisation shift at the post office? Who goes here now and makes party-political opposition?- Oh, my God! Mr Vergestnich, I hope that you will be the reasonable person at the ÖGB and will not support colleague Fritz in organizing protest marches or strikes against his own company. It should be better to negotiate with the business side so that workers can be even more aware of this exchange. The Postlers will be happy if they get more out of the dividend than before, as Mr Mainoni has said, the three or fourfold. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Please beg my colleague Fritz to represent the interests of Postler – and not the interests of the SPÖ opposition policy here in the House! – Mr Vergestnich, I hope for your support! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Matznetter, the Members of the Party you are listening to were the ones who left us a mountain of 174 billion euros in debt! 100 billion are to be paid on interest! You can't say that enough times, because you always forget! Let us remember the pleas you left us: More than 70 000 workers in the national states have lost their jobs because of their lack of economic policy, through party management, because they have not worked economically! I'm just grabbing out a few examples. First, the DDSG. A total of 10 billion schillings have been put in the sand under your government! Secondly, AMAG. – Despite high support from the state, 15 billion schillings were put in the sand, and the workforce was reduced from 8,300 employees to 2,400! I don’t want to talk about the “consumer” at all because that was the worst thing that happened. There are 15,000 employees who have lost their jobs! In addition: To date, it is not clear what the BAWAG and its management have done. More than €400 million was possibly added to the sand. There, trade union members have their accounts and savings books, and there the interest rate may remain low accordingly. My colleague, I know it hurts, but you too are responsible. These are things you can't find good. Furthermore, the whole affair “Lucona” and much more where Karl Blecha was involved. Now I have read in the newspaper – I hope it's not true – that foreign countries have made a request to do a house search. Maybe you'll find something there. I don't know what's going on in your party! If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones. [[Abg. Pepper: Yes!]] A biterl should be careful! I have to say: The stock exchange of the post is the right step. Today, a colleague has already said what Mr Haider from the SPÖ-Oberösterreich and also the VOEST works councils have mentioned when we said that we want to privatize VOEST. The employee shares will be increased. – Conclusion: The VEST has never had as much profit as it is now! Mr Haider from Upper Austria also said that the Russians will come and disappear with the VOEST. – Do you know what has come: The double and the triple in profit! The VOEST Boards and SPÖ should go to the public and apologize for this untruth they have spread there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To make the operation worse in the public, to put workers in fear by claiming that they are losing the job, I find it unheard of! A works council really can't do that! He should be motivating – and not depressing. You've now seen: That's where the privatisation works. The post will work just as well, with a stock exchange. The red-white-red post will remain. It will have a better chance to enter the market. The post will make more profits and existing jobs will be secured and new ones will be created. That's how the right economic policy in Austria looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15215	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit; 10 minutes of legal speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15236	Mr President. Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! What really surprises me about this discussion is the contradiction on the part of the government groups. It's best I really found Minister Grasser. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Yes, in your contradiction. Otherwise, one can quite argue about it. It is amazing what you have given to praise for the post – triple European champion in the delivery – and praise for the employees! But for what period? – For a period of time where privatisation was not at all mentioned where the post was full of public property! So now, as a reason for having to privatize, I think that is at least a peculiar argument. Don’t be evil with me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] Yes, he is! That's exactly how he's always been! In addition, there is a second argument that I think is at least as good. You said with a radiant face: 51 percent remain in Austrian hands, remains with Austria, remains red-white-red, remains in safety and stability. Does this mean that 49 percent now become unsafe and unstable because they're going to the stock market? So what you give of yourself in your argument is really hardly beyond contradiction! I would really argue for a serious discussion. On what Mr Matznetter said here, for example, no one of you has just received a serious word, except with pure polemics. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the Greens, it is not a question at all, or at least it is not the central question of whether the state is a good or bad businessman. Both are possible, as we know. In the same way, private entrepreneurs can be good or bad. I found it very interesting that Hans Peter Haselsteiner, who is probably a gifted entrepreneur from your point of view, has recently said – it was, as far as I can remember, in the “profile”, but I am not quite sure, at least he has said that – the state may not be a good entrepreneur, but the banks either. They may be just as good or as bad entrepreneurs. [[Call to the ÖVP: It probably meant the BAWAG!]] Whoever he says: I think there's a lot of evidence to be found. The fact is that it is not always about the ownership structure, but that it is also about what tasks are carried out. I would like to come back to this subject now. In our view, there are simply conditions for public property which arise when there are areas that are not profitable for business, but where there is still a general public interest. And that's certainly what the post is in some way about, because there's an interest that there's a general supply in good quality. But this is not to be achieved profitably in the last place, and that is why there is a state responsibility. In such cases, the Greens are committed to a state regulation, which makes public property sense. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Wait a bit, I'm not done yet! Whatever public property is supposed to be, for example, is actually a guarantee of this provision. And there is the contradiction we see that the present Universal Service Regulation does not guarantee the comprehensive supply of services. That is, in the moment when it is actually public property, it is not guaranteed. This has nothing to do with whether something is public property or what you are going to do with it, but it has to do with the fact that as a government you refuse to create a postal law that describes this supply first of all, or precisely observes what is meant by comprehensive supply. Does that mean that there is a comprehensive supply of post offices? How to establish this comprehensive supply for postal services? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] Yeah, that's exactly what you can discuss. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Controller.]] No, no, no, Please don't explain to me now that the task of the legislator is. Straight You do not produce this legal state, and not now, and therefore I have little confidence that you will do so in a privatisation through the stock exchange. It wouldn't matter... [[Further call of the Abg. May. Controller.]] – You just don’t want to listen to me, I notice! It would not matter whether it is in public ownership or in private if you were as government groups if we were to define the framework conditions as legislators. [[Abg. May. Regulator: There's a supply order!]] Yes, there is, however, that is not sufficiently defined, and that should therefore be changed. [[Abg. May. Controller: Oh yes!]] For this, the Greens have always argued that a new postal law must be here, where this is clearly explained. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to take a brief look at the question: What happens to the privatisation proceeds? Minister Grasser referred to this too. These should not now go to the post office, for which there are good economic reasons. I would like to say two things to that effect. First of all, I am against the fact that research is now being used to use this privatisation revenue – without being sure that the post will really get it if it needs the money. In principle, I think it is good for research to get more money, but this should be done through the budget; we have always discussed this on the issue of "special resources". They refuse to ensure research resources – and then such constructions come out where you use privatisation proceeds for research, but then it is no longer certain whether, if necessary, the necessary capital for the post will also be there. So the question is: Is the supply ensured, and what happens if the post really needs the capital, but you use the privatisation proceeds for something else, so if it is not assured whether the money actually comes from the ÖIAG? For this reason, we will not agree to your request because you have long played your credibility through the way you deal with these things. We demand that these things be assured before a further privatisation is discussed!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15368	Next item is the speech by Mr Amon, MBA. Requested time: 7 minutes; Still speaking time of his group: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15390	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Sburny, as you said that this was contradictory, I must reply to you: In my opinion, there is only one contradiction: your speech in comparison to your colleague Kogler's speech, because he has absolutely positived the post's exchange process or the privatisation of the post, while you have actually spoken against it. This is the only contradiction I can make up for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Because you don't listen well!]] They criticise the Minister of Finance for explaining the performance of the Austrian Post that he is going to meet, that it is excellently positioned that it has become a European champion three times, and you think that would be no reason for an exchange. – I have to tell you: Of course this is a reason for an exchange! Should you go to the stock exchange with a company if it's bad? [[Abg. Sburny: You always think that the state is a bad businessman!]] Of course you go to the stock exchange with a company if it has a good appearance! This is a sensible economic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is thanks to God in the people a good feeling; I say so once. The SPÖ is once again trying to implement plan economic concepts. But the population, as has been said, has a good feeling: There is a widespread opinion that although the SPÖ may be good for many things, it cannot operate. And this can be demonstrated in many areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] There are, of course, as you have rightly said, business areas at the Austrian Post, which are difficult or not at all economically to manage. It is therefore necessary to give such a company opportunities that it is also established in other areas, where it can be very active economically to compensate for what is not possible elsewhere, so that it can go under the line. This can, of course, make it easier for them to move freely and if they can obtain additional capital on the capital market. Your proposal is another: They suggest that this additional capital should, as far as possible, be returned from the taxpayer to pay it to the taxpayer. Then it doesn't matter whether you're working in an economically efficient sector – or whether you're working exclusively in an area that's not economically efficient. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, your concepts of the 1970s and 1980s are not concepts with which we did in the 21st century. A century can act! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ is now well-known for its zigzag course, and it also applies here again, because you now claim that the exchange is a wrong decision at this time. You mean it's the wrong time. We did not expect anything else from you either, because if SPÖ Finance Ministers and SPÖ Federal Chancellors introduce a federal law here in the National Council and give all the members of Social Democracy their consent to this law and then another Federal Government does exactly what is stated in this law you have presented and decided to do, then that is wrong for you, then it does not fit for you at once. For you there is a very simple formula: Then, if the SPÖ determines the time for a measure, it is the right one, and if someone else does, it is the wrong one! – But economic policy is not that simple, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President, this also applies, of course, to the activities of the trade union. I have to say: I find it extremely disappointing that the ÖGB, in particular the majority group in the ÖGB, the Socialist trade unionists' group, is increasingly there – I would like to say: almost more – as an extended arm of the Löwelstraße. In my view, this is a very worrying development. On the other hand, this is an explanation of why there are fewer and fewer people who are willing – unless, as in some Styrian companies, they are pressured by the socialist works councils, as I could read from a daily newspaper – to join the trade union. You are also putting the union's unity in a risky position with this process! Then: How was this in the discussion about the post-post exchange? The Group of Christian Trade Unions, which does not see it dogmatic that there is a flow of stock exchange and partial privatisation, has been engaged in constructive discussions, has produced a comprehensive demand catalogue, has put forward these proposals in the discussions where the socialist chairman of the postal union did not want the representative to speak to the Christian trade unionist at all, and I am very grateful to the Minister of Finance for the letter he wrote in this context, in broad terms. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it obviously cannot be for you what must not be: If proposals are implemented by Christian trade unions, they are of course not good, but, in your opinion, proposals are only good if they are enforced by socialist trade unions. – And this is really sad, Mr President, I really want to stress that, and this is also the reason why your migration to the Ministry of Finance was one, where not primarily post staff members have gone along, but mainly employees of the ÖGB and the Vienna Chamber of Workers! So, ladies and gentlemen, you certainly can't act! I do not think that is all right. I would like to conclude with a quote from Hubert Patterson from the “Small Newspaper”, and I think that says everything anyway: The fact that the SPÖ is no longer home to small and medium-sized enterprises in the realm of capitalism is a step forward in thinking, but it smells like an end if, at the same time, the privatization or the plea for the welfare state remains deep in the seventies. The party – your party – has to decide. [[towards SPÖ]] Market plus Marx results in Murks. - Quote. Murks does this when you orient yourself to Marx and try to operate. Only one Murks can come out. We have seen this in the national lights in the Upper Styria. More than 100 billion schillings pumped in – and there were over 50,000 unemployed! Only the renovation and privatisation, the An-de-Börse-Gehen has made the company fit for the future. This is a successful economic policy that secures jobs, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15498	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15519	Madam President. Lords of the Federal Government! In one I give you the right, Mr Amon, but really only in one: The population has a good sense; that is right. That's why the Social Democrats in Salzburg have won – even if you don't want to hear it – in Styria, won in Vienna and Burgenland, and I can also remind you of the ORF election. People already have a good sense of what this government is doing to them. The penance wall would fit the government better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Arrogance comes before the case!]] It is your responsibility that we in Austria have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic, that we do not have sufficient childcare facilities and are constantly heading towards mainly part-time jobs and atypical jobs. So, the penance wall would really fit you better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, if you think that the economic policy of the ÖVP is so great and classic, I would like to remind you once again – even if you do not like to hear it – of Austria’s tobacco plants, which have been damaged by you in order to sell the lowest price, two locations closed, and that in a region where many women have become unemployed, thanks to your completely missing policy, Mr Stummvoll! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I now come to the request to speak. It is really a joke if your request states that you ask the Federal Minister for Finance to continue the successful policy in Austria. - So that's really a joke! You write: Growth, investment in the future of the company, opportunities, expansion towards south-eastern Europe, job security, employment, money for research and development. First of all, it is a completely overcrowded stock exchange you are planning. This does nothing and does nothing at all, because you could invest in the company even now from existing growth. You just have to want it, but you simply don't want it. This company could expand even now, in any direction of heaven. It just has to be wanted. But the Minister of Finance and the gentlemen on the Government Bank do not want it! That's what it looks like, and that's what you have to say. Job security – this is really laughing! [[Abg. Neudeck: You locked the “consumer”!]] They have locked so many post offices, creating thousands of unemployed people and taking care of entire regions. It is therefore best if you make room very quickly, because people know what policy you are “smoothing”, namely, a very, very bad one. Since the Federal Minister for Finance compared the post and the projects of the Post with the Urban Insurance: In the case of municipal insurance, the money has remained in the company. . But here the money is used to stop the budget holes of Mr. Federal Minister, which were created thanks to his truly irresponsible economic policy. Federal Minister, for the Post and for Austria it would be better for you to go – and take You'll be right with the whole federal government! Topp, the bet is valid!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15596	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15627	This thought sports task, Mr Jarolim, will probably have to solve yourself now, why there are no ministers but “only” State Secretarys. Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is repeated again and again and again and again in the past, successful years of privatisation, we have had to find that the larger opposition party always comes with the same leader, which means: Insurance, that is, anxiety, which is to say, referring to the post that the comprehensive supply is not ensured, which is absolutely incorrect. State Secretary Mainoni has also made a clear statement on this, and I agree to point out that it is very much in the interest of the Post Office to use this network, these postal services, which it has, to suit competitors accordingly. It is simply not true that “family silver is ruined” or, as it has said, I think, Mr Moser has said that it is a “commitment” The sluggishing of popular wealth” is coming! None of this is true! Mr Moser, I think, has even said “post-harvesting”. The fact is that this privatisation policy is a forward-looking, forward-looking policy for the Federal Government, and the opportunities for the companies concerned to position themselves accordingly are excellent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am seeking – in the sense of avoiding any damage to the reputation the company has Post – to end with this policy, with these statements, with this uncertainty! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The time is obviously always the wrong one, at least if you give the SPÖ faith. In this context, I also refer to a 2003 press conference. At that time, the SPÖ was about to set up a so-called small investigation committee in connection with the Federal Government's privatisation policy. There, Mr Moser went on to say that “only crazy people” would sell. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in the future is, of course, questionable again and again. There is a need for an assessment, and one can approach serious or less serious, but there are always, as has been said, questions in the room somewhere. When looking back, this is certainly not the case. When looking back, it is possible to use facts that occur and to prove these facts, not by taking out individual key figures to be established in connection with privatisation, but by proving all relevant figures relating to privatisation and documenting that this path was an extremely successful one. There are then already climbing trains by trying to prove one would have been sold later, one would have achieved € 570 million more. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, where can you prove similar success in your past, in your policy that you have made in connection with privatisation, in your economic policy? The last distribution of dividends to the federal government during your time was 43 million in 1992. – ÖIAG’s privatisation proceeds amount to €5.4 billion, ladies and gentlemen, and the value of the company has increased from 5 billion to 8.2 billion! So no mention of a “distorting of family silver, ” but that is a good, a right, and a way forward, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15698	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes; Total period of residence of the Greens: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15719	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think the situation is so correct. It is important, if you see it now in general, to ensure that a company is able to work optimally and that there is as much employment potential as possible, that many people find work in Austria, so that their jobs are also secured. That's the part. – In which ownership function the state is now involved, is a question to be considered. Very concrete: In the post there is a second thing to add: The post office is an infrastructure company. It is an infrastructure service, the provision of the population with different services, and the post has, so to speak, also a legal framework, as well as private competitors in the non-reserved area. In fact, when we talk about the post, we should focus the discussion on two areas: on the one hand, on the framework conditions we give legal terms, and on the ownership policy, on the one hand, which the state, as its representatives, then makes with your budgetary authority, in order to reduce revenue for the budget by means of dividends of this company. These two points of discussion are central to me. On the question of dividends, of course, attention should also be paid to the issue of security of supply, quality of service and also to the question of employees, rationalization. You've taken a lot out of the post; I can still tell you this: In 2000, you took out 400 million schilling, €29 million in the budget! It was rationalized, there was pressure from the workforce. It has, as it were, been removed and shortened from one job or another. But that was the corporate policy that provoked you with your ownership! In 2001, according to the Annual Report, you have also recovered 5 billion Schilling for the budget. This has been €363 million; Post AG has repeatedly informed the public. Specialdivided: 29 million. In 2002 again 29 million in the budget, 36 million in 2003 in the budget, probably 50 to 70 million in 2004 and in 2005 the Minister of Finance already told us: Yes, the post is liquid, we could get 300 million at any time – 300 million € please, this is a relatively large capital stock! It could also have been used if one acted offensively as a company, to make a better service in Austria, to seek a wider employment overall, to hire more people instead of reducing them, or to expand it as a company – that is, of course, the nearby course in the sense of European competition, which is particularly active in the East. You're saying, Well, the 300 million we don't take, we leave the mail to expand it. – You could also have said: If we really are about employment when it comes to an expansional enterprise policy, we also give the post a part of what ÖIAG is doing through the stock exchange. – Have that You didn't say that's not your policy either! You just need to read the ÖIAG law. In some cases, there are four or five completely contradictory objectives: Strengthening the stock market – now you do it – secure employment – is not guaranteed – yield for the budget – now you have it; a once-time proceeds of 428 million likely; that will be They feed on this research and development billion concept – and then, of course, it says: Ensuring the quality of the site in Austria. – I am not quite sure whether this is guaranteed with the stock exchange. And not in the ÖIAG law, but in your propaganda: People's share. But please take a look at the various opinions! Today, for example: The Raiffeisenkassa in Salzburg warns against the popular stock, advises its investors: Please don't have a popular share, losses are pre-programmed! Let us look at the stock exchange price of the German stock market: Yeah, he didn't recover and improve until last year. Certainly, the Dutch are on their way well, but they have had a different business strategy from the outset. For us, therefore, the protection of services for the population is central in the last village in the flat country, in the regions, where the rural population in particular lives. This is the task of the State on the Universal Service Regulation. As now the owner structure at the post office is, this is an extra question, and there we have a very differentiated access. Only: They themselves should have been a better owner in the past: for employees, for the population and for local postal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15761	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Requested time: 2 minutes; Total residence time for SPÖ: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15782	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also, of course, like to comment on the issue of privatisation by means of a very concrete example, namely the ATW, the Austrian tobacco industry, which has been cut short, but not in detail. A few years ago, in June 2001, the ATW had been sold to a British group, in whole, to a British entrepreneur. The Republic of Austria thus loses around 600 million schilling annually to dividends. Special dividends from the ATW have been paid out over and over again – all of this is no longer due to this sale. If it is said here that there are no consequences, above all, for employees in the context of a privatisation, it is simply not right, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The consequences at ATW are that two works have been closed in the meantime and especially in the last few weeks: First of all, the only cigar production in Austria, in Fürstenfeld, was completely closed a few days ago. 60 colleagues have lost their jobs! The entire production has been moved from Fürstenfeld to Great Britain! But I am also thinking about the production in Schwaz in Tyrol – a very good, interesting company with over 100 employees. This company has also been completely closed; the entire production has been relocated to Poland! So, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said here that there are no consequences for employees in the case of privatisation! – There are consequences: 160 employees in the ATW have lost their jobs in the last few weeks. On the field of post-privatisation – because it is also claimed that there are no consequences. Consequences have already occurred in recent years, especially in rural areas! I come from the district of Freistadt, ladies and gentlemen: 12 post offices – 12 post offices! – in the district Freistadt of a total of 26 were closed, and another ten post offices are on the closing list of Post AG! In the district of Freistadt, there will be only two post offices in à la longue. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Yes, because reality is another!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the responsibility of this government! Therefore, I think it is time for this government to go, it is time for Austria to get another policy! The people in Austria deserve it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15819	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Requested time: 5 minutes; Total period of residence for the liberal club: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15840	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Beautifully slowly gain the impression: If the SPÖ comes to the government with expectation, it will lock all the post offices again. I look forward to having the post offices locked up again and the Members of Parliament will probably stand behind the switches themselves during the plenary week or during the free week. This question should be asked before. It's just a reality that you don't need so many post offices anymore. And that was, I think, neither the blue-black nor now the black-orange or perhaps a different coalition was to blame, but that's just a sign of time that you don't need so many post offices anymore! Today we have post offices in small communities, where one comes all day to give up a letter, or one comes to pay something. This is simply no longer contemporary, and therefore it is much more reasonable to take care of alternatives in good time than to keep post offices alive with compulsion, which simply don't count anymore! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As Mr Moser, who is now no longer here, even spoke of “post-hauling” in his remarks and made a request, which Mr Mainoni has already crushed: Mr Moser, the reality, I think, has already overtaken this request. At the time of submission, the core requirements are already fulfilled. I would like to comment once again on what Mr Mainoni said earlier. They themselves write that for the purpose of the growth strategy, one should get money across the capital market. That is to say, you yourself support the initiative taken here by the Federal Government and the ÖIAG, and I sometimes have the impression that trade unions and institutions, especially the SPÖ, but above all, are losing the sense of reality. Mr Fritz and Mr Vergestnich have spoken a lot of strikes, they have been announced that they will be extended in great style, as it were, only: The base has failed in this strike! In reality, the base was not ready to strike, and therefore this strike has become a march of protest, and this march of protest will not be successful, because in reality the workforce also knows very well: Only a successful post, only a successful company guarantees the future for its employees, guarantees jobs! You can now philosophise on how to deal with this strategy, and you can think about details and whether they are optimally or suboptimally solved, but I think it should be consensus that only a successful, future- orientationd postal companies will secure jobs in the future, and that means continuing this strategy. In 1997 Mr Marizzi – which I have chosen – said: It may be that we may have privatized too late, but if you look at the past, you can see that the most successful privatization ministers were Lacina, Klima and Edlinger. - Quote. Or if the same Mr. Marizzi says to Jörg Haider – that was in 1997, there was Dr. Jörg Haider Klubobmann –: And every good merchant, Mr Haider, you should know, goes to the stock exchange when the company is ready for it. - Quote. That is to say, in fact, Mr Marizzi recognized in 1997 where the journey is going. We will continue this path by the government. Böhler-Uddeholm, Voest, Telekom, OMV, Airport – there are many successful examples; the figures have already been mentioned. A total of €5 billion in additional revenue was achieved in ÖIAG, and the value of ÖIAG could be increased from €5 billion to €8 billion in parallel. I think that the success story, which also contributed by the SPÖ, which was also initiated by the SPÖ, will continue to be carried on here. Now a few words to Mrs Sburny, who, in my opinion, has found a right approach in her speech: That one should think very well about how to define the word “wide ” and how to define “postage. ” I myself experience in my own community, where the post office was also locked up, that the postal service now works much better with a post partner, that the postal provider has longer opened up that people are much more satisfied with the service, so that not the post office of wisdom is the final conclusion. I'm just thinking of e-mails, I'm thinking of many other electronic media that just changed the situation. It does not come about that the telegram has been set, it does not come about that in many other areas savings measures are necessary. It would only be important for you alternatively to make sure that there are new possibilities. When the social romanticism of the SPÖ comes out in connection with the post offices, one sometimes feels directly that the next resolution will stand in it, that one might also activate the post-coachs again, so to speak, in the old social romance. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: The post-coach serves a maximum of the “start-clear” tour of your chairman Alfred Gusenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15922	The next item is Mr Abge-ordered Magistrate. Gaßner. Requested time: 2 minutes; Total residence time for SPÖ: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15944	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need a post-coach. Do you know what we need? – We need a secure supply of all Austrians! We need that, and no one in the whole discussion has been able to explain to me today how that is secured with your privatisation! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But you?- Oh, my God!]] No, I am against it, my dear colleague. How to secure Are you this 51 percent, so that the supply of the flatland is actually guaranteed for all Austrians? – No answer! This government has been shutting down for five years: the post offices, the gendarmerie posts, the courts. The communities are starved! There is no transport connection to the flat land! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you know what I hope that soon there will be no more: this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15980	Mr Mag. Kukacka. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16002	Thank you, Madam President. High house! It was actually interesting who today did not talk about the opposition on this issue. It was, I believe, significant that Mr Gaßner spoke, but it was also significant that Mr Vergestnich did not talk about it. It was also interesting that the clubman, the SPÖ party president, did not talk about this, and it was also very interesting for the Greens that Professor Van der Bellen did not talk about this topic, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's easy to explain: Because They themselves do not agree on their political-strategic line on this question, ladies and gentlemen, which would also explain the various conflicting messages in recent times. In this context, I believe it is also necessary to maintain that it was the Social Democratic Chancellors, Transport Ministers and Finance Ministers who decided within the framework of the EU, in the first Post Directive, that postal services should be liberalised, the monopoly removed, and therefore the postal services provided in competition. That's one of your main responsibilities, and you can't just talk about it yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's why what you're doing here today is a kind of child-moving because: How was that in your time?- Oh, my God! Austria is not a pioneer in liberalisation, nor is it a pioneer in privatisation, but we are very careful and very careful to do so. The postal companies, which have liberalized the most and most privatized, are also the strongest in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Germany, the Netherlands and other countries show us how to do this: offer a highly exporting postal service and nevertheless high security of supply in the country. That is exactly what we want to do in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. The post office is today an economically healthy company. How was it at your time, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, 1996, when we released the post into independence? – At that time, the item had around €8 billion in debt; Post AG's debt, which only did not lead to a fiasco and to a bankruptcy of this company, has caused every Austrian with over-the-counter phone fees to ensure that this deficit was reduced and covered by Post AG. – That was your economic policy on the postal and telecom sectors! We have distributed these companies and sought a clear privatisation course. And then, 1998, 1999, you agreed by the SPÖ that the Post should be privatized, not only the PTA, as Mr Matznetter has said, but it has already been established that the postal services sector must also be privatized. The PTA was commissioned to prepare privatisation in this area as well. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality! Today, the company Post AG has 80 million € in profits – and is on the best track. You should take that as an example. I mean, this also shows the great difference in the economic competence of the Social Democrats and this Federal Government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the following: It has always been complained that post offices have been closed. Yes, I have a certain understanding of that, but all these post offices were difficult to deficient. Please note that most of these post offices have made losses between €10,000 and €20 000 a year! We couldn't get such losers in the long run because this would have affected the future capacity of the entire post and Post AG would never be able to implement, plan and implement its expansion strategy accordingly if it had to carry such losers around on a permanent basis! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, universal service is secure, the supply is secure. Perhaps you should take the time and read through what is contained in this Universal Service Regulation and in the Postal Act. In this, the comprehensive supply is expressly recorded. It explicitly states that the letter delivery must reach 97 percent of the country in one day within 24 hours. This also includes a number of other obligations for the provision of postal services. This is still regulated by regulation, ladies and gentlemen, and if the monopoly is removed, there will be a universal service fund in which all postal service operators will have to pay after their turnover, and this universal service fund will then ensure the country's provision of postal services throughout the country. So we have a clear concept here, which is entirely independent of whether there is a privatized post, whether there are several postal providers or whether there is a monopoly company. Ladies and gentlemen, this government also knows what it wants. In this postprivatization, the family silver is certainly not thrown away, but – I am convinced – the family silver is gold-plated by this privatisation action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16099	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Requested time: 1 minute; Total period of residence of the Group: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16126	This is what we are going to do afterwards, Mr Neudeck. Mr President, I fear that today you have finally installed your job as an investment advisor to Raiffeisen, and Mr Molterer has also tried to explain who is on the wrong side. I can only quote the homepage of the ORF of today. “Raiffeisen warns against “Volkstaktie” specialists from Raiffeisen Salzburg warn about the post-privatisation to sell the shares as “Volksaktien”.” Hans Schinwald, Director of the Salzburg Raiffeisenverband, also gives a good example: “A family father buys 20 000 euros of such shares from the post office. The children are 14 or 15 years old. The stock is slumping down, and the dad has only 16,000 instead of his 20,000 euros.” – Original quote Raiffeisen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] “Children mate, start studying. He needed the money urgently.” It also says: “Individual shares are not at all suitable for small investors, say Raiffeisen Chief Analyst Peter Brezinschek and Head of Power Hans Schinwald.” The problem of this federal government is simply that it confuses strategic economic policies with adventure. In this way, your urgent request is legally regarded as a dangerous threat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] If the staff representative you are so pleased to call on is right to warn you of these dangers, then the staff representative will prove that far-sighted view that is absolutely going on to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16188	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Total residence time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16209	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka, I would like to ask you and all the others who are talking about the act of government, but ask you to comply with the Convention of this House and not to carry out any polemics from the government bank. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's what you say?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] If you, Mr State Secretary, classify the speakers, why someone has not spoken, and suspects and puzzles why someone has spoken, then, I think, this is an absolute mistake for you as a specialist! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You should speak and answer us here to our legitimate concerns and objections, Mr State Secretary. That's what we expect from you. I must say quite honestly to you that a good part of the debate I have felt as a mirror fight; Mirror fighting, because you are here pretending that the opposition, social democrats and greens, which differ in their attitudes, are actually not at all involved in what it is all about, namely the “total privatisation project” of this federal government. I'll tell you: Privatization can be good, privatisation can also be bad. If I look at privatisation or stock exchange operations of your Federal Government, I know why the Minister of Finance has not mentioned all those that appear in his or her application; this urgent request appears to come from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance makes its own applications. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You still don't know the ÖVP club, Mr. Cot!]] I know why he didn't mention Telekom's privatisation, and I'll tell you, even if you don't like to hear what went wrong in Telekom's privatisation. The Telekom privatisation was the last example before this stock exchange you are now planning for for a popular stock. Every Austrian should own Deutsche Telekom shares. Do you know what happened? – You have set an issue price of €9, and on the weekend before the issue the stock portfolio was still not signed, oversigned, fully drawn. What did you do? – In accordance with the terms of the stock exchange prospectus, which in this case was not only for Austria but also for the USA, institutional investors have been asked to sign: with an extra discount of 25 percent. That's what they did, because this is a mezzie for every institutional investor: 25 percent of 9 € Extrabonus. What have the institutional investors done on the first day – you can understand it at the stock exchange and at the stock exchange price –: You sold right away. The stock price has fallen to € 6 and that is far below what Deutsche Telekom was worth. – Do you want to sell us this as a successful example?- Oh, my God! This was a fraud against the Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16280	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Requested time: 2 minutes; Total residence time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16302	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Very briefly: Mr Hoscher quoted the chief analyst of the RZB Peter Brezinschek. I just got the “curier ” and there is a very different quote in it. “Post share is interesting as an investment” RZB: ‘risk distribution’ means an appropriate risk distribution; “The Austrian Post to the Vienna Stock Exchange, planned for this spring, is welcomed by the Raiffeisen Central Bank (RZB). ‘The stock is an interesting investment’, says their chief analyst Peter Brezinschek. Although price imagination was limited, the title was hardly affected by price increases in raw materials and economic fluctuations. Therefore, investors should hardly be disturbed by major price fluctuations.” [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And on top of that: “In addition, the stock – especially for small investors – is responsible for risk distribution and long-term investment. Everything money in a stock, no matter what, would be wrong. “It should be part” – listen! – ‘Being a bundle of shares’, which the expert includes, for example, the Telekom Austria or voestalpine.’ [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Due to its history, it is obvious in Austria that a popular share comes from the state sector, but it can also be a private company. Ladies and gentlemen, I would recommend this reading before the vote, perhaps feel You then post-privatisation as positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16360	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Molterer, colleagues and colleagues on the continuation of the successful launch of the stock market. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 168.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Matznetter, colleagues and colleagues on ensuring the sustainable development of Post AG. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this motion for a resolution an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: What about Van der Bellen and Gusenbauer?]] [[17:42:35]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16412	We are now coming to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Application 732/A (E) concerning the initiation of a procedure pursuant to Article 142(2). 1 lit. e B-VG against the head of the state of Kärnten, Dr. Jörg Haider, a deadline until 1. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Stoisits. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16446	Dobar vecer! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Madam President. No one is sitting on the government bank, but that is no surprise either, because who should sit here and contribute anything constructive to this discussion, although in fact only members of the Federal Government are recipients of this resolution of the Greens today! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] This request calls on the Federal Government to impose a so-called ministerial credit against the head of state of Carinthia for a culpable infringement of the law. We have already held this debate in December, ladies and gentlemen, and the situation has not changed since December in relation to the Greens' motion for a resolution. How was the political situation that led us in November to choose this rather unusual procedure and to make a request for ministerial support? I can't remember the greens ever did that. Now it could be concluded that the Austrian heads of state and the Austrian Federal Ministers have high respect for the federal constitution – with the exception of a head of state who constantly and repeatedly offers cause for complaint. To file an application for an indictment before the Constitutional Court, which is something like the Ultima Ratio, is not to be done every day. We haven't done it yet, but in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, the barrel has been over. Now, regardless of the occasion of today's discussion, if I read that the head of state of Carinthia has confirmed today that he has persisted in his illegal conduct and, if necessary, has to repeat it again or resume it again, this is a profound political question, which is not only – and that is an aspect of this whole problem – but also a fundamental political one. The debate on the rights of the Carinthian bilingual population, namely the Slovenian and German-speaking population of the Carinthian Slovenians, is one that is the 20th century. It has accompanied the century and has been particularly special for the last decades. But this question that we are now dealing with is a question, in which I think: How far can political officials in this Republic go until the Federal Chancellor, until ministerial colleagues, finally understands that there is little greater intensity, such as the rule of law? Is the occasion for the Greens' motion for a resolution being taken? What happened? For example, the knowledge of the Constitutional Court from 2001 or the new findings from 2004 are not ignored or not observed in order to betrothalize the President, expose the judges, no, but there is an existing local panel that has a legal basis that dates back to the seventies – the existing topography regulation on the one hand and the local name regulation on the other side; the local name regulation only stands in it, as the places in addition to the German language in the Slovenian language actually have to be called – an existing regulation that has nothing to do with the findings of recent years, a local panel which it has already given, according to the instructions of the head of state. What if not – a guilty violation of law is it! It is clearly the greatest disregard that the head of state in this case, in his capacity for the execution of minority rights in Carinthia, has committed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The wonder at the so-called verbal outrage that there is about the head of state Haider and about his now political course in relation to the town boards is in different circles. There are even critical voices on the part of the government parties or from these associated circles. One can be proud to have people in this country, too, who not only mean what Haider and Schüssel mean, what a rule of law is, people like the President of the Constitutional Court, Professor Korinek, whom I would call with great appreciation as a conservative, without now thinking in a party-political sense, but in his values there are certainly more overlaps than in the current government fractions than in the opposition groups. That does not mean, however, that we are pleased about everything that the President of the Constitutional Court says, namely, with regard to our political, if you wish, ideological and persuasive foundations. But one thing has always been clear in this Republic: that the constitutional bodies of the Republic and those who protect or protect the constitution of that country have respect and support for political mandates, whether it fits content or does not fit content. This, ladies and gentlemen, is called democracy, which is called belief in the rule of law, belief in the democratic system, faith in our parliamentary system by accepting decisions as they fall. I often do not fit the results of the elections, but that is the decision of the Sovereign. I could not also like decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding laws which I too have decided to take part in the National Council, but I respect the Constitutional Court as the supreme guardian of the Austrian federal constitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is this Federal Government doing under the chairmanship of the Federal Chancellor? The minimum she does – the minimum in the sense of the slightest evil – is to keep silent. But in this case silence is an injunction. I would have liked to have someone from the government now, where Parliament is for the second time dealing with a motion for a resolution relating to Article 142 paragraph. 1 lit. e B-VG – an instrument which, as I have already said, is not too often discussed here in Parliament – would have given attention. But that's not the case. Finally, I would like to say the following about the attitude that some colleagues from different political bodies have, not just here in the National Council. Some think there is a self-destructive political course of political officials and dignitaries somewhere in the Republic, in which case at a level where it harms an entire country, namely the Federal State of Carinthia, and far beyond, namely the whole Republic. We are the mockery of Europe. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: This is a stupid thing about what you're talking about! It's crying out to heaven!]] We are the mockery of Europe! We are represented by German Chancellor Schüssel, who is now President-in-Office of the Council, and we are the ones to whom Europe as a whole focuses when it comes to drawing a positive picture of the EU in the EU countries, but also in the candidate countries and in Europe as a whole. Austria is a country that enjoys an overall excellent reputation in Europe – with an exception, such a tiny exception that it is almost impossible to express it in words: bilingual village panels. In Ceauşescu Romania there were bilingual town boards, in democratic Romania, Madam President, in Communist Hungary, in democratic Hungary, there are them. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: There are also them with us!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's really ridiculous!]] In democratic Austria there are no local boards since 1976, respectable 1977, and there are findings of the Constitutional Court, which, with the exception of the green opposition, no one wants to help break through. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How long does 10 minutes actually take? That's incredible!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16551	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over. I'll let you say three more words.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16566	This, Madam President, is a cause for concern which I do not share with Mr Scheuch – but I do not share much with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16587	Your speaking time is over! [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. May. Stoisits.]] The next item is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. She has 5 minutes of speaking time like everyone else after her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16623	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to get away from the artificial excitement of Mrs Stoisits, because this is neither helpful nor appropriate in this matter. I think you should focus on what really is a thing! But you, Mrs Colleague, have made a lot of false claims in your contribution to the debate, and I would like to make some of them right. [[Abg. Lentic: Aware!]] Consciously said wrong. You have once again criticised the fact that no member of the Federal Government is on the government bank. This insinuates that it is customary to have ladies and gentlemen of the government present in the debate on time-limits and short-term debates. To this end, you have to present the viewers with the following: It is quite similar to the practice that in the case of time-limited debates, no one is there from the government. That means that this has nothing to do with the subject of negotiations, Mrs Colleague. Try to be correct at least once! - So much for the process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second: In terms of content, you have also combined incredibly much wrong in your statements. I am absolutely convinced of your personal commitment to this matter. However, this is no reason to confuse the political debate with a real legal statement. In particular, there would be much to say about what is very complicated. On the other hand, what has probably happened to you lately has not addressed the heated debate in legal terms, as well as the statements made by the Federal Chancellor on this matter. You have falsely claimed that the Federal Chancellor did not express himself in this matter. True is: He said several times and clearly stated that he was thinking about this matter by 30. June 2006, up to the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. He said that several times! I would advise you to listen to the “journal, ” “journal guest, ” or similar things. Then you wouldn't miss much. But you certainly do not claim untrue, Mrs. Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not agree with this request for a deadline for various reasons. On the one hand: In its recent knowledge, the Constitutional Court has granted the Government a period of time, i.e. a period of up to 30 years. June. At this time – and this is the second reason why we certainly do not agree, and I do not agree at all. It makes sense to see that the Constitutional Committee is now reporting to the National Council on how you plan to do so in your application and your request – there will really be substantial discussions. Especially in this case, it is important – and this is, I believe, to all the other political groups, perhaps with the exception of your group, Mrs Stoisits, also important – that such an emotionally loaded issue is naturally clarified by those and brought to a solution that really concerns it. You sit in Vienna, it doesn't matter. [[towards Greens]] [[Abg. Sburny: And you're in Carinthia, aren't you?]] I'm also sitting in Vienna, but I've never been like you were pouring oil into the fire here in any way. [[Abg. Sburny: What does that mean, “Oil in the fire ”? Who pours oil into the fire?]] - Yes, you, unbroken! If you try to follow Mrs Stoisits' speech, you can understand. [[Abg. Sburny: That's really absurd!]] It meant that Austria is becoming a mockery all over Europe. That's just ridiculous! She spoke of the “Schweikanzler” (Schweikanzler), which I have already rebutted with facts: You don't really get along when a word is made. You simply fall into your usual reaction by blaming the political competitor. And Mrs Stoisits has also stated that there is no support from the political mandate makers for implementing VfGH knowledge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] That too is incorrect, Mrs Colleague. There is the statement that this very knowledge will be implemented by the middle of the year. That's what we're gonna stick to, and then you can judge us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16723	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16744	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen. It is only one sentence, because as a representative of a democratic party, I cannot contradict what Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer formulated earlier in accusations to Mr Stoisits. I'll put it together. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, I think we agree that democracy and constitution concern us all in Austria and in Carinthia and that dignity and political culture are things that concern us all. - So much for the findings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Controller: She didn't say anything else!]] But the fact is, Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer and others, that Carinthia, not only Carinthia, but Austria, as was previously formulated twice, is once again, for the time being in the focus for months at the international public's point of view, and unfortunately in a negative way. An attention which harms the image of the country of Carinthia, but also the image of the Republic of Austria, an attention which no human being in Carinthia has actually earned, not even those people who gave confidence to the current still-country captain in 2004 because they could not even imagine that if they express their trust again, then now, in 2006, they are confronted with a localized, self-appointed Messiah, who is called the head of state of Carinthia. Not even they deserved it! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Why are the SPÖ mayors against it?]] The position of the SPÖ mayor is clear, your Federal Chancellor has experienced it and it was also formulated there. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How does the clear line look?]] In contrast to the ÖVP, the SPÖ admittedly has a clear line after many discussions in many years, but I would recommend that you, Mrs Colleague, read Monday's party board decision of the Kärntner ÖVP! That's where we agree. Ladies and gentlemen, the image damage must be borne by people in our Republic and in Carinthia, but the Federal Chancellor bears the responsibility for increasing escalation – as mentioned earlier – around the case of the town boards in a double way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What is the mayor's opinion?]] Once as a coalition partner of the ÖVP-BZÖ government and as the second German Chancellor for the fact that his regulation has in fact been pending since 2000 and has not been adopted. The Federal Chancellor has sought the way of consensus. We share this type of gang. However, we do not support the fact that a Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria is silent and waiting for one of his coalition partners, namely the one in Carinthia, to come to reason. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: He doesn't!]] This is not what I call the perception of responsibility as we imagine it. It is here, ladies and gentlemen, and I also think that the ÖVP – you will share this – is about the principles of the Austrian Constitution. There is a working agreement in Carinthia, which I did not support, but it did not question the Constitution, and it is not going to deal with the question of the local maps. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] That's the difference with your partner Haider and Schüssel at the federal level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is about the principle of the Austrian Constitution, the quality of a democracy, which is particularly measured by how one and woman deal with minorities in a democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] In a climate where a national captain provokes daily, pours oil into the fire, shakes emotions, it needs a responsible policy for which the SPÖ is ready. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is your line? You prevented the compromise at the time!]] We take responsibility for working there for confidence and creating awareness of a co-operation where oil is poured into the fire against each other and enemy images are shaken. We are committed to the fact that the almost consensus of not so many months ago will be implemented into reality. And to colleagues from the Greens. It is in fact clear, except for one and two small parties in the Republic, all that is to be done on the question of the local panels, therefore the swivel is permitted: It would have been good to discuss current issues such as poverty, heating aid, for which we do not have time. I don't want to play one against the other. But it is clear that the Federal Chancellor has to speak with his coalition partner and the head of state of Carinthia and finally to adopt this regulation, which has been outstanding since the year 2000! This is his failure and none else.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16877	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Member of the European Parliament, also for you, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16899	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== We had this discussion here in Parliament last December, and I would like to repeat some parts of what we spoke at that time only two things that were up-to-date. First, Mrs Trunk, pour oil into the fire, that you should not, you might be right. Just tell your colleague Konecny in the Federal Council, where he is also talking about local boards, where the colleague Konecny in the Federal Council repeats Mr Gusenbauer's profoundly rebuttal and says that Mr. Haider is a mentalally ill man who runs free in the psychiatry! Just before in the Federal Council! Ten minutes ago! Since I demand quite honestly, the SPÖ should first distance itself from these statements, one should take the oil out of the fire, for that is unheard of, and I point this out to the sharpest! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who said that?]] Second Burgenland: In Burgenland, there are also five bilingual town boards missing. Where's the big uproar in Burgenland? – Five bilingual town boards are missing in Burgenland. SPÖ head of state Niessl... – Mrs. Stoisits, look first that you can make your own country right! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This has nothing to do with the head of state!]] And what about Carinthia, Mr. Oillinger? What's really in Carinthia? – I’ve said this a few times before. [[Abg. Oils: Disgusting!]] – Carinthia is not an agonizing one, but I do, Mr Oillinger. If you're saying Carinthia is miserable, then that's the hardest thing to do. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Because this conflict, which is carried into the country – I have often said so – does not deserve this country! [[Calls to the Greens.]] There has been a broad consensus, ladies and gentlemen, on all parties to the local panel question. Since 1976, when a law was passed here in Parliament, since 1977, when the regulation was adopted, there has been consensus. There was no one less than a head of state Dr. Jörg Haider, who, after 20 years of setting up the ÖVP and SPÖ the head of state, set up the tables. The Topography Regulation is fulfilled. She's fulfilled! They're all set up. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is the untruth!]] You should say that. It is 100 percent fulfilled. That is the truth, Mrs Stoisits! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And if you are constantly trying in public to carry a conflict into the country, They'll do this until the Carinthians don't wear it anymore. Look at the surveys! The Carinthian people are behind the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider because it is quite clear that he represents the interests of the people and not the interests of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Again: Ask the people on the spot! Ask the Slovenian minority who has a reasonable minority policy! Ask who builds bilingual kindergartens, more than demand who establishes a group office, who makes cultural policy! Ask who is setting up bilingual schools more than required! Ask the people outside who knows the concerns very well, only those who are not allowed to impose the local panels! And if we are honest, why is there this discussion? – You all know exactly because a certain Mr. Rudi Vouk, head of the Council of the Slovenians – and now be careful! –, consciously and provocatively travels through local areas too quickly, so that people's lives are threatened so that the lives of young children are threatened, consciously! [[Abg. Oil: Tempo 160!]] It's a difference whether I'm allowed to drive 160 km/h on a safe route, or whether I'm deliberately driving through people's lives and children's lives in a place where there is zebra strips, where there's a 50 km/h limit. You're missing the sense of reality! This is a conscious provocation that was made here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Based on this conscious provocation, the Constitutional Court says that we no longer need 25 percent minority, we only need 10 percent minority. So and now I can conclude before the lamp, ladies and gentlemen, so to speak. We have no problem at all to find a solution. Only two things: First of all, one should take back the 20 pending procedures that were created with conscious, provocative forward-speed driving. There are still 20 procedures pending. Mr. Vouk was aware of his wife too quickly through St. Let Jacob drive in the Rosental to force a judgment here again. Mr. Vouk deliberately sends his aunt through fields too fast by car, in order to force a judgment again. If we take back these procedures, we go here where we can make the laws! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If we make a new People's Group Act, we raise the minority and put it on a legal basis so that – and I come to the conclusion – this conflict is no longer carried from outside to Carinthia, and the Carinthian population can live in peace and quiet with its minority!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17056	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. Ladies and gentlemen, for you too, five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17077	Madam President. – There's no one on the government bank anyway. - Dear Members! I come back to the occasion, at the heart of our request. The occasion for the ministerial anchorage was a very specific starting point, namely that the head of state had a bilingual local panel removed by direction. Anyway, that was illegal, that was a breach of law. Minority law, I think, is not only a matter of a demarcated area, but minority rights, minority policy are matters of the whole federal territory, minority rights are matters of this House, this Parliament, they are federal matters, they are matters of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and they are indirectly matters of the head of state. And I think it's completely legitimate... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have no idea!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] Excuse me, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, you have already shaken me with what you have said, namely to accuse the colleague Stoisits, to pour oil into the fire, to turn here into a protective sign of a country chief who has clearly acted unlawfully. So that's something new that I wasn't used to in your other seriosity at all. That's terrifying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Road transport rules are national matters, you are completely right, but minority law is still federal. Or would you disapprove of that? Should we now look at the federal constitution in whose enforcement and legislative competence are minority rights? – I don't think so, Mrs. Colleague. I'll come back to that again: Head of State Haider has clearly committed a breach of justice, and this is the occasion in which our Prime Minister refers. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] It is also quite right if it has already been said here – from the SPÖ, I think, that was the case – that the Federal Chancellor has long been sparse to adopt, at least present, a new topography regulation, and the Federal Government should adopt it. It is true that the whole situation is spicy by a state captain who abuses it exclusively for a electoral, party-political maneuver, in order to provide a fundamental mandate to a party that is no longer holding back in Austria, in Austria, possibly in Carinthia. This is the abuse of a linguistic minority in Carinthia for party-tactical motives, only in one election year to hit the largest vortex possible in order to obtain the basic mandate for the BZÖ in this constituency. This is the only background to this whole action in Carinthia. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You don't believe that!]] - Of course. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Scheuch, I do not at all know what the problem is. If you were to actually see your political views on you, you would have turned a beard and now furs that would be as deep as the Pasterzen glaciers, as backward as you address this problem! In a Europe where, since 2005, all the neighbouring states of Austria have been members of the European Union, in which we are forced to establish this European area in an international context, both as a social area, as an environment, as a competitive area, to fight over local panels, and then to hold discussions in Carinthia, where territorial claims of Slovenia are discussed, is such a thing of hinrisig – apologise for this expression! –, in these times, this year! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's ridiculous! That's right!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Your local panel discussion is hyrnrisig!]] Carinthia has other problems: Unemployment, public transport, the situation of women. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Yes, exactly!]] And you deal with a problem every day that has been solved in people's minds for a long time! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You're dealing with it!]] If there were a little more of the far-sightedness of the Carinthias in your minds, the problem would have been done with generosity from the world. Please set up 30 bilingual village boards! What's the problem? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There is something emotional too!]] What's really the problem of just showing generously: We have a minority, we are proud of it, multilingualism is a strength, that is nothing to fear, on the contrary, that is something quite great. There are so many areas in Europe – in France, in Germany – where there are minorities. There is a German-speaking minority in South Tyrol. Nowhere is this a problem, only in Carinthia this is a problem! And these are the barriers, not to people on the ground, but to the heads of responsible politicians. They abuse this year in such a bad way that I can't describe it as different from bad, embarrassing, embarrassing! As a Carinthian, I am ashamed of it, Mr. Scheuch. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I honestly do not understand the position of the SPÖ either. I think that Parliament should be able to decide on a request for a deadline. So the question of jurisdiction is, I think, clear. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No!]] If you find the content wrong, because of this distance from a bilingual town map, we want to be interested, or at least want to check whether he can be interested, then you can reject that on the basis of content, but to say that Parliament is not responsible for this, is an excuse. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It clearly points to a conflict in your own ranks, which is also due to clarification. I also believe that your colleague's proposal in Carinthia is to adopt a moratorium which is completely out of the political debate, as not at all targeting. Please, let's just put these plates on and then dedicate ourselves to the problems that Carinthia actually has!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17253	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 732/A (E) by Mr Mag. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the initiation of a procedure pursuant to Article 142(2). 1 lit. e B-VG against the head of the state of Kärnten, Dr. Jörg Haider, a deadline until 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this request for a deadline to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:16:48]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17292	I take the negotiations on the 7th. Agenda item again. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17316	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, difficult to get back into a debate that started already hours ago. What's this about? – For the second time, the Court of Auditors has been concerned with the issue of chip card and the resolution, implementation of the corresponding e-card project, chip card in the framework of social security. The Court of Auditors not only identified significant shortcomings in the implementation of the Chipcard project in its first report, but also in its second report. From ancient times to modern times, ladies and gentlemen, it was such that it almost belonged to it and was essential that there were deaths in large projects. No major project without deaths. So, of course, we have civilized and developed ourselves – and the e-card project is also such a project. There are no deaths, but political bodies are on the way, and it should be counted even more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: tasteless!]] It is tasteless, Mrs Fekter, if you think, as a representative of the legislation, that you no longer have to deal with the fact that the laws of the Republic have been broken, that the main association, also from the opinions on the objections of the Court of Auditors, says: Well, it has not been respected in this point, at that point! – In fifty points, the award right, which you have decided with us here in the National Council, has been broken by the main association. The main band draws with the shoulders and says: Well, stop it! – Mr Neudeck, I would like to say one thing: If you look at the dimension of the violations in the e-card project and compare them with what we have discussed within the framework of a multi-year investigation committee, which was then reduced by the ÖVP grandios in the new elections – “Euroteam” I only say – if you compare the dimensions of what happened in the project e-card, if you try to hide and, in part, to this day – in my opinion – is concealed or not yet put into the right dimension, then a committee of inquiry on this Causa is urgently necessary. This did not start with these last years, but actually with the time when the legislator launched the e-card project, with a motion for a resolution at the time, at which three parties rejoiced here in the National Council: Hurra, let's do that! On the other hand, we from the Greens – I remember well – have said as the only one: This is not how you imagine it, and certainly not within two years! However, this was the opinion of ÖVP, SPÖ and also of the FPÖ, all of which said: No, in 1997, we've got it all loose, we can do it! – Of course it didn’t! It was really a story of the embarrassments – until the beginning of the years 2000, when the afflictions were even potent! In this context, I only add: The responsible managing director Nischelbitzer – actually the Director-General of the main association at the time; the main association was put on completely new feet with a “reform” by Schwarz-Blau – did not raise the project at all, but failed after a year, of course, taking all its claims. – That was the then competent one. Then there was a new expert, but it turned out that the entire main association structure was illegal. The Constitutional Court scratched the curve and said: Yes, but although illegal, we cannot remove what the main association has done at that time, otherwise everything will collapse, and the VfGH later legitimated the main association. There will then be a re-installation of the managing directors of the main association, and these continue, as it were, the old sausages. At some point, this federal government realizes that the plan to implement the e-card project in good time should never get on the way – and it intervenes. Before intervention, however, the first project with EDS/ORGA falls off; in 2003 this will be cancelled; in this case, obviously, not with direct financial losses for the main association, but rather for the companies involved, because they have to pay. The project will then be re-established – without decisions of the respective main association bodies, without decisions of the SV-Chipcard Ges.m.b.H.- Oh, my God! No one has decided anything, and yet there is this project! You have to imagine how it has been seasoned! - That's point one. Then there are two managing directors in this SV-Chipcard project: one is responsible for the commercial, the other for the technical sector. Then the technical managing director – in turn without decisions of the competent bodies – is initially left and then pushed out of the holding. During the time when he is still acting as technical managing director, a programme director will be installed, but no one knows who is responsible at all or whom he may give instructions. May he join the entire SV chipcard Ges.m.b.H. Is he commissioned by the main association, as it were, or is he an instance within this SV chipcard? Not enough with this is also used as an overall project coordinator, which is to coordinate the project in addition to the programme director and the technical director. Not enough with it, overpaid salaries are paid at all levels I have described now! Not enough with it, go on! And that is now the point where I am directly addressing you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors. After the Minister of Social Affairs has cried out the alarm, there is an internal revision, and there is a revision report which is going to be devastating for the main association or for all those involved! Then again, the Court of Auditors' view is to draw up a second Court of Auditors report. And nothing happens again, but the main association is justified: We couldn't do anything else! Nothing is happening again, and – and this is the springing point – contracts with the parties involved will not be respected, nor will – as the Court of Auditors' report shows – be produced in parts what was actually required, but it will also produce completely superfluous parts. The Court of Auditors has also noted this. What are the consequences? Which body is concerned with this? There is no Supervisory Board in the SV-Chipcard Ges.m.b.H., not for three years! The review report of the Ministry of Social Affairs states: Within three months, a Supervisory Board would have to be ordered. – But what does it matter to those who are politically responsible?- Oh, my God! It has obviously been so that it has been tried to postpone the Court of Auditors during the audit where it was necessary to establish: But there were other evidences. – Who cares, apart from the Court of Auditors and the opposition parties? And what do you say about the coalition parties? – It’s all right anyway! So this is your way of dealing with things: The decisive people who would have something to say and who could actually help us are outside the door, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not find themselves on the load lists for the relevant decisions and deliberations of the Court of Auditors. In spite of or thanks to the criticism of the Court of Auditors, things continue to be clear! Beyond this of my 8 minutes speaking time, there would be enough to say about the political dimensions of the e-card project, of which I can say at least – and that in conclusion – that: I am glad that it was set in motion, yes, but this is far from apologising for the fact that a number of major violations of law were committed in the framework of this project and that it was also clearly tried to give the Court of Auditors a view within the main association or the SV-Chipcard Ges.m.b.H. not to inform about everything. If one can only trust the complainant's desire of one of those who have now reported some sort of trust, this is undoubtedly something that we still need to examine in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17368	The next item is Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17389	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! According to Mr Öllinger's report, which largely follows the Court of Auditors, I must say that, unlike what Mr Herzegovina and Mr Kogler have done with Court of Auditors on one occasion or the other, we have to say that many of the criticisms put on the table here are also set out in the Court of Auditors' report. were researched and which, at least, need to be informed. I'll give you all the right. If there have been legal violations there or there, the question has always been: Was it dolos – or did it happen to bring the e-card thing, which has been on the cooking since 1993 and has been promised several times since then, so to speak, finally into the race? Of course: Where it's done, there's chips falling! But, remember, if the span falls, it will be bigger than the hustle and bustle product, because then the worm is in it somewhere. The criticism was noted, it was also responded. The Federal Minister of the Interior requested a further investigation and a further report by the Court of Auditors. – It has, as has been said, been greatly improved, but some things are still improving. Therefore: We from our group take note of this Court of Auditors report, with all the criticisms and orders for completion, but also, of course, with a note of improvements already carried out. Under the motto “You should make mistakes only once!” the competent Federal Minister for Smoking, the main association, and all the managing directors and other managers involved in the companies are asked to develop the projects around the e-card properly and to bring them through the stage. I can tell you that we too will surely be monitoring this with watchful eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17437	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17459	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' review of the implementation of the e-card makes the hairdressing mismanagement of the ÖVP health policy visible once again. The implementation of the project was more than unprofessional, and tax money was wasted in a large way. This is in itself nothing new, but nevertheless every time annoyed, because it ultimately meets the taxpayer. It is also scandalous that the Court of Auditors should not have been fully informed in at least two cases. First of all, it has been found that, as criticized by the Court of Auditors, the procurement of a completely unnecessary programme director has cost €654,000, but incredible €1.1 million. Secondly, the Court of Auditors obviously had negotiations between the main association’s ÖVP managers and a bidder company in bars and ÖVP premises, which made it difficult to properly examine the Causa. Thus, the already destructive criticism of the Court of Auditors on the project concerning organisational chaos, contract breaks, cost overruns, personnel explosion is even more serious. Further audits by the Court of Auditors will therefore continue to be necessary in this case. We believe that the introduction of the e-card in principle makes sense, necessary, not only now, but also in the past. I can remind colleagues Schöls – I do not know if he is in the hall now – that the SPÖ was the one who launched the project in 1999 and the ÖVP was the one that has dragged this project away for five years. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] We therefore regard it as necessary, but complain of the high project additional costs, the numerous errors in project management and the project residue. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You talked, and we did it as always! You're talking, we're acting!]] For a long time, there were also substantial agreements between the main association and the medical board on the application of the e-card and the cost burden on future users. The management of the main association as well as the Supervisory Board of the implementing company also lacked appropriate decisions. The cost estimates carried out by the main association of the company at the end of February 2004 were incomplete and limited. According to the Court of Auditors' estimates of May 2004, the cost of the project will amount to approximately € 128 million until the project's comprehensive implementation and subsequent sampling operations until the date of completion in September 2006. However, the exact sum is still missing. The staffing effort of society was too high, as measured by the task and its responsibility. She commissioned generous external experts, totaling more than €25 million to external consultants – a barrel without soil. The Federal Minister is undoubtedly called upon to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations as soon as possible. The financial damage which it has at least authorised up to now is high enough. It would be irresponsible to give taxpayers even more thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17501	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17523	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I now come to a very different subject, namely the National Fund and the compensation fund. As part of the commemorative ceremony concerning 10 years of national funds, all Members here in the House were already able to take a picture of the work of both the National Fund and the compensation fund. The Court of Auditors' report is now before us, and I would like to thank you very much, Mr President, and your officials for the very positive report, as I believe, for it. However, the Court's suggestions relate primarily to technical details and their implementation. On the matter itself, I believe - and I read it from the Court of Auditors' report - nothing can be criticised, because compensation for the victims of National Socialism is a very difficult task. This is a fact that we are all aware of. How to evaluate human suffering in money? And the loss of an apartment or family inheritance can of course be very, very painful. A real assessment – even after over 60 years – is extremely difficult, and the Court of Auditors has also worked out very clearly in its report. The Schüssel government has nevertheless trusted itself, and this has rightly given this federal government great respect worldwide. The problems were enormous. First of all, many victims and witnesses are no longer living, which has not made compensation easier. This has been disillusioned by the fact that the heirs of the injured can also claim. Secondly, we must be aware that all the damage can never be done well, because it is a huge sum that we could never have spent on taxpayers. Therefore, the economy had to jump in, and I would like to thank the Austrian economy very much from this point of view. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Of course, the most important thing now and today is that the compensation is already paid out, quickly and unbureaucraticly. That was and we owe the victims of the Nazi regime. It's just that – you really have to stress this over and over again – through an enormous power act of our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17603	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17624	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer again to the introduction of the e-card, which is an infinite story, a history of waste of money, non-compliance with legal requirements and a history of dyeing. For the waste of money, I have already noted a lot about the project's additional costs, the overpaid salaries of the chip card building company. I would like to draw up another point, namely the programme director, who, according to the Court of Auditors' report, would not have been absolutely necessary. According to the report, it receives €654,000. In this context, I noticed a very interesting point: In the last Court of Auditors Committee, the Minister said that the commitment of the programme director amounted to a total of €1.1 million. ==References== January of this year there is an issue of the main association in which the costs are estimated at €92 800. So there are considerable differences. Somewhere there must have been lost money, about € 1 million. How can we explain the difference between Mrs Minister's statements and those of the main association? I think the taxpayers will certainly be interested in where and why this money was thrown out of the window. To the Federal Procurement Act: The Director-General of the main association of Josef Kandlhofer seems to have been particularly bothered by this law, because he did not comply at all, both in the mandate of the Programme Director and in the mandate of the Research Group RISE. And despite this report of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Schönfarberei continues to operate, there is no self-criticism or consequences, even though new facts appear again and again, as we have been able to read in the ‘NEWS’. I would like to add another quote: To date, despite the ongoing criticism of the Court of Auditors, there has been no impact on the e-card project and on new revelations. I Therefore, the competent Minister of Health calls on Rauch-Kallat to finally clarify all the criticisms about the Flop project e-card in full. - Quote. This quote is not from an opposition politician, but from the Chairman of the Alliance Uwe Scheuch, with whom we are very rarely of an opinion, but in this case already. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17669	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17691	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The introduction of the e-card is absolutely a success story, and this has greatly improved our health system. The Court of Auditors' criticism in this context is, of course, to be taken seriously, but it is not related to what the e-card for Austria means in the positive sense. Our e-card system is a demonstration project, our e-card is the most innovative and state-of-the-art IT card in the health field. And the Court of Auditors clearly confirms the need for this introduction. I don't really remember the so-called "note economy" with the health certificates. As a Red Cross employee, I know the problems and the severity of the system with the health certificates, treatment certificates, transfer certificates et cetera. This was particularly difficult for older people. Now we have a system that combines and simplifies all of this on a small safe card, and the 42 million health certificates issued each year in Austria are lost. Today, 300 000 to 400 000 patients are being treated reliably on peak days of up to 580 000 patient contacts of around 10 700 practices. With a certain amount of goodwill one also understands that in this number of transactions so many transmissions do not work the same and that it takes a certain time until everything runs smoothly. Overall – and I would like to stress that already – this e-card project is a milestone in our health sector. The SPÖ has done this under its government responsibility – a lot has been said about the fact that this project has lasted for a very long time, has never been completed and failed. It is probably now the envy for this success that makes the opposition desperately search for scandals and mistakes. Why can You don't simply accept the success of others and listen to the opinion of the people who welcome the e-card with 86 percent? A minister after this success to demand withdrawal is completely illogical and also unfair, even to where twelve countries from all over the world already want to copy and buy our system, such as the Federal Republic of Germany or Australia. The most important thing in this whole discussion is: All citizens, i.e. patients, employers and doctors, are very satisfied with the current solution. In addition to these encouraging figures, facts and surveys on this e-card, I have made the effort in recent days and conducted a small survey in my environment. I have asked citizens from young to old from different levels of income, from different professions and also from various political camps about their opinions. The result was not a single negative statement. Everyone was content without exception. I even asked in an old home with about 100 partially in need of care seniors: Feedback is only positive throughout. We of the ÖVP stand for solution-oriented action and for future design. So stop cramping our very good health system into some bad light, and take seriously the population who also feel and perceive this success!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17727	The next speaker is Mr Christ. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17749	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear colleague Wöginger, thank you for your commitment as an empirical researcher in the service of the e-card, but: It is not the e-card in principle that we criticize, but the trigger for this more than legitimate criticism, especially of the Court of Auditors, that is the more than worrying accompanying circumstances in the planning, tendering and introduction of this card. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How do I plan a project to ensure that it will cost a lot of money, if possible not transparent and comprehensible, that external consultants can re-emerge and carry out as little in writing as possible? – These questions will probably have been asked by those responsible at the beginning of the new e-card project. One thing has to be acceptable to them: They have really endeavored to achieve this planning objective. The project was started without substantial agreements with the doctor's chamber. At the beginning, there was no cost estimates, millions were put in the sand for unnecessarys. Just one example: €3.6 million for a finally pointless so-called information action. In some cases, important decisions of the responsible institutions are still missing or missing. The staff effort reaches astronomical heights, and generous salaries – we have already heard this today – have been paid far beyond the normal level. Ladies and gentlemen! The list of points, as you certainly can't do, could continue for a long time. Therefore, not surprisingly, there is the legitimate criticism of the Court of Auditors, but also of the opposition parties. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, Mr State Secretary, I ask you to report this to the Federal Minister: Finally, take care of the necessary decisions of the relevant institutions of the main association! You have made the main association into the private playground of ÖVP functionaries, so you can also create the most appropriate order! Finally, end the irrational mandate of external advisers contrary to the regulations and regulations of the Federal Government! Distinguish You go straight from RISE! Please clarify to us here in Parliament and also to the public these enormous accusations regarding illicit agreements between ÖVP managers of the main association and a bidder company, which are said to have taken place in the premises of the Vienna ÖVP! Mrs Minister or Mr State Secretary, you have all your hands to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17798	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17821	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! This 8/2005 exercise report contains a total of 11 audit results, and you will see, on the basis of the audit results, that the Court of Auditors is always very balanced in its assessments. Therefore, as an example, I would like to draw up three reports. A report concerns the national funds and compensation funds – and the second part is the chip card report. It was true that the Court of Auditors, which was also mentioned, had carried out an examination of the national funds, the compensation fund and also the natural refund, with a common examination, in particular with a view to interconnecting these three areas in the field of the institutions or in the field of business equipment. It was at the National Fund in such a way that we have been subject to the individual benefits of a review, at the same time also project financing and pre-administration. It was gratifying – and this is rather rare – that no serious shortcomings in the Court of Auditors had to be identified. On the contrary, there were very slight shortcomings, only in the area of the allocation of the administrative burden or in the management of staff. It is to be mentioned at this point that even in the gesture payments according to § 2b National Fund Act, especially in the direction of stock rights, household council, personal assets, the resolution was absolutely positive. I therefore, and I think this is also true of the Court of Auditors, particularly commending the fact that the National Fund has been particularly committed, actively approached the people concerned and has tried to reach out to as many applicants as possible. It was also true that the institutions acted in accordance with the principle of consensus and looked at making, as far as possible, unanimous decisions. It is also worth mentioning that the rapid and unbureaucratic settlement has enabled the National Fund to achieve nearly 93 percent of applications between 1995 and 1999. From the Court's point of view, it is also positive that the concept of victims has been extended and, as a result, the so-called "spiegelgrund children" have also benefited from these benefits. In this context, I would also like to point out very briefly, after legal certainty has been established, with regard to the compensation fund, that an effort by the institutions of the Fund has also been made here and that it has also been tried in the area of shortening the deadlines or processing the applications very quickly. From the Court's point of view, it would be appropriate for further standardisation of the processing of applications or the preparation of decisions to be carried out, in particular for the Request Committee, that the fields of processing – there are currently three in number, namely search, data processing and legal assessment or legal processing – be combined, research and data processing in order to be able to work faster and more efficiently. It would also be appropriate to set up an internal revision, which is separate from the pre-administration, in order to increase the efficiency of the use of funds. The Court of Auditors is aware, as far as natural restitution is concerned, that it is expected that this area will only be possible in the medium term. . I would like to point out that praise was also expressed in another area by the Court of Auditors. And now to the chip card project. You know that the first report of the Court of Auditors has already been discussed in detail in the National Council. Massive shortcomings have been identified in this area. I do not think I need to repeat this; these are known to you. According to the present second report, which in turn dealt with the chip card project – the second project – it should be noted that the organisational framework or resolution was no better than in the first project. This means that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have unfortunately not learned anything and made the same mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's the shame of history!]] In this context, however, I would also like to mention that it is positive – that has already been mentioned – that the acting actors, the two Federal Ministers, have done everything that appears appropriate in this matter from the Court of Auditors' point of view. They also used the internal revision so that the project could actually be put on track or the project could be completed almost in compliance with the time and target. – From the Court’s point of view, however, it should be noted that: The whole thing is done with a considerable extra effort that could have been avoided, the first report of the Court of Auditors would have drawn the necessary lessons. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that the Court of Auditors is still dealing with the third-party audit, i.e. the implementation phase. I can assure you that in the foreseeable future – that is, in the coming weeks – this third report will be sent to the National Council in order to have an overall view of the project in the implementation phase. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Court of Auditors has carried out a bilateral review in accordance with its intentions, with the Court of Auditors of the Czech Republic, in particular concerning nature conservation, biodiversity, the conservation and improvement of water quality and international cooperation. I can say that this examination was very positive and was done very well and coordinated. I also believe that this shows that, in view of the current EU enlargement, in view of globalised action, border controls cannot be stopped and that it is therefore necessary to carry out tests in certain areas together with other countries' test bodies – of course, in accordance with the tasks set out nationally. I think that this bilateral audit has shown responsibility to those responsible where there are areas of action where positive action can be taken in terms of environmental protection. If you observe the recommendations as such, it will be possible in both countries to draw positive conclusions in the Thayatal area. In this context, I would also like to mention that the same audit result, which you have today and which comes to your vote, will also be available to the Czech Parliament and will also be dealt with by it. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the respect of the Court of Auditors' activities, and I can assure you that in future we will continue to work with repressive effect in the sense of our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17863	Mr Reheis has been mentioned as the next speaker. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17884	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Expensive member of the Federal Government! The President of the Court of Auditors, in his statement on the chip card, once again stressed what is clearly reflected in the Court of Auditors' report. The Court of Auditors report, as it is now present, represents a reflection of this Federal Government and documents the state of the proceedings in this Republic. The political culture in Austria has already been mentioned today, which can also be read in this Court of Auditors report. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr President, Moser spoke of massive shortcomings in connection with the chip card project. It was also heard that this Federal Government or Mrs. Rauch-Kallat did not learn anything from the recommendations. Furthermore, the President of the Court of Auditors – a quote – said that there is no awareness of the problem in the Federal Government and there is a danger that this will be the same in the future. . It is better not to say it at all, especially in view of this Court of Auditors report. [[Abg. Großruck: But he didn't say that! Fairy talers!]] – This is a quote from Mr President; I have written it down to myself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at what was wasted on money, you can see once again that the delay in the project of the chip card resulted in additional costs of € 7 million. – But we have it quite clearly! We do not have poverty in our country, so you have to save, but we have the money and we can distribute it! And how is it distributed? – Forgiveness is granted without compliance with contract guidelines! There is a friendly economy, and it is wasted! There is a free-handed and unlawful award! The failure to comply with the procurement directives has therefore been established by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Großruck: You're talking about the BAWAG!]] The word ‘exhibitions’, Mr President, is quite clearly a foreign word for this Federal Government. If municipalities – and I am the mayor of a Tyrolean community – would work like this, we would only be in court constantly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The scandalous thing is something else: ==References====External links== In January 2006, a Vienna Idea company – a company that has played a significant role in e-card development or projecting – sued the main association and its subsidiary for payment of €1.3 million, with the application stating that there has been an illicit agreement between ÖVP managers in the main association and a bidder company. That's what I'm talking about. That is the state of this federal government! There are consequences to be met!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17956	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Herz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17980	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It is tragic and tragic when the first speaker of the ÖVP turns out here and claims that SPÖ only wants to misrepresent this project, engages in polemics and party politics. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is no more destructive judgment in this matter than that of the Court of Auditors. And the coalition partner is directing you from the ÖVP that this is a not-ending plow, pitch and pan series, an destructive but completely ignored Court of Auditors report on e-card. That's what your coalition partner says. So they of the ÖVP are totally denying reality. Of course, the whole thing is not over with today. ==References== We will be dealing with the issue of e-card very intensively in a current debate in the Health Committee on February, even though the Federal Minister for Rauch-Kallat will be present, and the Court of Auditors will probably present an even more destructive report. So that Mr Finz does not press the government bank completely for nothing: Mr State Secretary, there is a letter to the Minister from Mr Bierbaumer, who is already well-known, who demands about € 780 000. Now the main association says: No, no, he just got €92 800. The Federal Minister says that the total cost of €1.1 million. Mr. State Secretary, do you know where the money is? Where's the coal? You know that? Skill You're nodding or maybe you're suggesting a no? Where's the money? You have to be a little interested in this too, but you are the State Secretary for Finance! If you do not know, Mr Finz, what I now accept, since you are just sitting here silently, at least you say that you are interested in it and are going to do this! Otherwise you will have – don't be angry with me! – Your profession is missing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are sitting on the government bank as State Secretary, and you obviously don't care where this money was processed, strangled and thrown away! It can't be like that! Mr Finz, it is really better to go home and not sit there!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18050	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18071	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors may well have taken the taste of the plenary session or even if he has highlighted three aspects of this comprehensive report. It should be said something good at this point too, otherwise tell me I'm always yelling. [[Abg. Scheibner: Just don't generalize!]] I mean the content of the exam now. Yes, the case with the National Fund and with the related funds was an excellent one. Not only that this was and is politically the right story, but it is also important that this is dealt with extremely correctly. This too is gratifying, because that is the subject of the Court of Auditors' examination. The second thing is interesting to the content, I find at least in a double sense. Not only has a cross-border examination been carried out again – that is already remarkable; this is becoming increasingly common and is becoming increasingly sophisticated; we already know other examples – but also, and secondly, that it is in an area that is actually purely located in the environmental matter. This, too, is a positive development in the Court of Auditors in recent years, that he has been looking at these matters more closely. You don't need to be afraid, something good will come out more often. I recall the examination of the Voest – which has been here for a long time – on the conversion measures in the air cleaning sector. Well, I guess that's a good thing. That is, I think, a good approach from the Court of Auditors, that we also take care of macroeconomic objectives and understand the overall economy in such a way that environmental issues also belong to them. So I'd say that's an excellent approach several times. Thirdly, I must praise the Court of Auditors again. In this case the test team, first and foremost the examiner in the case e-card, because he – you can always convince yourself in the house when you do it; he is even present in the gallery – really gives information quite precise. But then it turns out that in several sequences it is not quite that way – let us say it carefully at this point – that it has been done efficiently. That is certainly also in your sense to formulate it once in a while. I'll cut it all off now. Mr Oellinger has already been praised for describing what is best. I only come to a situation of fellow Members Neudeck because you are just asking him, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an extraordinary thing!]] [[Abg. Fauland: This is not forbidden!]] I am only going to get to an inconsistency: once again, on the workings of the Court of Auditors. The competent Mrs. Federal Minister was there and also one of the head of the Social Security Institute. Of course. A whole set of questions, including a question on the already critical conclusion of the Court of Auditors, is that the Ministry does not want to miss out on selling something as great success, at least in the Court of Auditors' view none was: A price reduction for a certain performance – let's turn it around in general – from XY, I don't know how much – it's at least one third that it's about, and we're in the Zig Million range – that's an excellent performance. So it has been offered, even to the Court of Auditors. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Court of Auditors or its zealous officials have found that this can only be a picture increase because, in fact, the underlying performance definitions were the cause of the amendments and not really the negotiating skill of the one there to praise. That was clearly the idea of the ministry that certain posts with people who are in each other's way were once again described as particularly successful. And, look, the opposite is true. But now it comes first: As a result – unfortunately only after this Committee on the Court of Auditors – it turns out that not only this matter had already been presented in some way, but also that, in my opinion, it is quite obvious that, in this matter, there has been an inadmissible Quasi-price agreement. So this is already a strong piece that has happened, namely that the value of a particular project was initially estimated at €25 to €30 million in a similar area by a second person, i.e. almost objective, and now in an open time, two-stage procedure, are arranged with the head of social security, where one of the bidders is being forced to offer just under 38 million, then it will already fit. And the next day – see! – it did. The second company was, of course, completely painted in several respects, and I say now that it cannot be said that Mr. Kandlhofer, who is hard to blame, has had such a dark interval in the Court of Auditors that he has not been able to remember it. It has also beautified the things from the front to the back. I'll tell you: If we insist that only half of that is true, according to a statement of complaint – because of this kind of way it has come out now – at price agreements in some cases ÖVP premises, then it has its own replay. Keywords: Working methods in the Committee. It's enough now! It respects the government parties or members of the government – I must not point out to the Members of Parliament that I am withdrawing it – can not go about this with the parliamentary control body! We'll take care of the matter. We won't rest there. That doesn't make any sense. That is why the reference made by Mr Oellinger is so correct. In fact, there would be a need for an investigation committee again, then the ladies and gentlemen, even the ladies and gentlemen, would finally be under the duty of truth inside. It will really be the problem of how to deal with this committee! That's the real point. But how does it end? . A committee of inquiry is always rejected because alleged evidence is not yet sufficient, as if one needed it, then if everything is proven. No, it's the other way round. But in any case, you reject him, you say there is anyway the Court of Auditors Committee. However, the Court of Auditors can only act with attractive leash, because we are not an investigation committee. [[Abg. Steibl: That's ridiculous!]] I mean, this is, of course, a more or less intelligent way of exercising power by a majority – perhaps a little more skillful – but from the point of view of parliamentarism, your practice is perfid.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18169	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Court of Auditors, this report III-159, d.b. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this notice to give a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. [[19:08:04]] 8. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1265, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union (1278, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18218	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Spindelegger. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18245	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the advanced period, I will keep my debate brief. I would like to make three brief comments on this item on the agenda. First comment: What we now decide is in a tradition of the so-called empowerment laws that we have adopted in every European Treaty. I would like to suggest at this point that we should talk about whether this two-stage procedure is really up-to-date or whether we should not reduce it to a single level. Talks are also in progress for this. The last President-in-Office has already made an excuse for this. I thought it would be useful for us to talk about a part of the European Constitutional Treaty here in the future only once, but for that to be done thoroughly through a Treaty of Accession or perhaps, as is likely to be the case in the near future, and to have this two-stage procedure – authorisation law and then ratification – belong to the past in the future. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, on the content itself. It is about preparing the Accession Treaty of Bulgaria and Romania. There is, of course, a discussion on the finality of Europe, with the question of: Where does Europe end? Do we even need an extension now? Shouldn't we take a closer look at the ten new members with the 15 old members? That's legitimate and right. However, I felt it was extremely unfair and unfair to apply these thoughts to the example of Bulgaria and Romania, because these two states negotiated jointly with the ten acceding countries in 2004. We have come to a conclusion, and it has also been called a clear timeline for the two states. On the other hand, I also believe that there is no doubt that Bulgaria and Romania belong to Europe, geographically and mentally, and therefore we should not make these two states feel what is present in Europe as a whole. I am therefore in favour of ratification of this Treaty of Accession as soon as possible. I think this is necessary to send a real signal to the two states. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a third comment: As for the date of ratification, we know that a progress report will be available by the Commission in May. I therefore believe that, in agreement with all the political groups, we should also consider the right time for a plenary debate. I think there is. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. All in all, I would like to say: I see it as an extremely good cooperation of all political groups that a new Treaty of Accession is being pursued in a uniform manner on such an important issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18302	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18324	Mr President. It is probably on the verge of a word on the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we could now make a request for a member of the government to be quoted. We do not want to act like that on such a point, but at least ask the question: Would it not be right for such an essential point, when it comes to enlargement, and since we have the chair, to have a member of the government on the government bank?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18348	Is there any further word messages to this effect? Please, Mr Molterer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18369	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder, I understand that. I would ask that we continue the discussion now and try to clarify this in the bilateral or multilateral terms – to remain in the foreign policy term – if that, Mr President, is your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18388	I can agree with the suggestion, although I can understand both words well. I think we'll find a way. The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a shame, of course, if no member of the government is present at this item on the agenda. It is a very essential point. Nor are constitutional matrices that are so simple to decide, but they should also have a certain weight, and of course they are also carried by the government. It would therefore be very useful if at least one member of the government were present during such discussions. My previous speaker mentioned that we have here the tradition of carrying out a two-stage procedure, namely first an authorisation procedure and then the actual discussion of the content of an enlargement agreement. This approach in a two-stage procedure gives us the opportunity, as it were, to give us a sign that we want to actively participate in the accession of these two countries, to welcome them, but still give time to actually meet the needs of content. Romania and Bulgaria are two very important trading partners in Austria. There is a surplus in external trade results with Romania of more than € 550 million and Bulgaria of more than € 170 million, so that it can be said that as an Austrian economy and as an Austrian state, we have seen economic integration very well. We made the biggest investments in Romania, we made huge investments in Bulgaria. I'm just remembering First Bank and OMV in Romania and Telekom in Bulgaria. These are very important economic links with these two countries. I also believe that, in the course of enlargement, there could be a positive impact on the reduction of corruption sometimes existing, that the adoption of EU law would also bring some legal certainty for these developments not only economic but also at all social and other levels. However, I would also like to stress that the monitoring reports of the European Commission, which were agreed upon at the end of the accession negotiations, still contain shortcomings. One of the most serious shortcomings that have been identified and applied to both countries is that the areas of justice and home affairs are not yet developed in such a way as to comply with European standards, which is why there are still a number of reforms to be implemented here. I believe that in the course of the Commission's further monitoring report in April, we will have to focus very closely on these points. This is also seen by the Commission itself and was mentioned in the last report in October. Of course, it is also necessary to standardize a certain form of anti-corruption in these two countries, as well as further control of organised crime. In the field of justice and home affairs, the Commission is still expecting reforms, and it will depend on the last report whether these reforms take place in good time and to the desired extent. I believe, however, that if we decide today to authorise, it is a very positive signal from our side that we want these countries to be able to implement these reforms in good time, so that the report is positive in April and can then be discussed in the future on the content of the Treaty. And last but not least: It is not only economic reasons for us to welcome this accession, because we are the biggest investors in these two countries and thus interact with the two economies, but also a certain tradition should encourage us to send this positive signal. After all, some Romanian was spoken at the first meetings in this House, and we should also take this into account in our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18466	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18488	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor represents the State Secretary, I have heard today. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This is something new, but I think it is a good signal, if I may say so now, that, although it was not planned, you have come to us for a debate and we can therefore also discuss this issue with members of the government. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] I think it is It is important that we take a very close look at the framework conditions of the enlargement rounds, which are still ahead of us, here in the Austrian Parliament. Today, 'only' is the constitutional basis for the ratification of the Treaty of Accession on the agenda, and it has already been said that we, all four political groups, are working towards standardising this somewhat strange procedure, this two-stage procedure and finding a better and more comprehensible way here. On the matter itself, on these two countries Romania and Bulgaria and on the enlargement step. . You know that my group and I, too, personally, are always very critical of enlargement in the European Union, especially because – and the last activities, better said, the missing activities have shown that we are right here – often the second step is taken before the first. We have seen this when it came to enlargement from 15 to 25 when it was said that it was necessary to implement this enlargement and that it will also be a success, the framework conditions that would be there: a “EU Constitution”, which, in fact, would only be a further development of the Treaty of Nice and the Treaties in force before it. Well, the Constitution will not enter into force, at least not in time, but enlargement to 25 has already been completed, and we see that the mechanisms in the European Union are not geared towards this figure of 25 – and later 27 – because this is already decided in the European Union. It once said an absolute opponent of this European idea and of the European Union that he was very, very much in favour of all these enlargements, unless the end of the European Union. – I do not think it should be, because of course Europe must be more than an EU of the 15, 25 or 27. The question is only, under what conditions, under which conditions, and whether it is at all possible to bring all European countries together with all rights and obligations. I doubt this, at least in a foreseeable time frame, because many of these countries, which are now at the door to the European Union, are far from being able to fulfil all the principles and foundations of this European Union. But – and we have to say that too – the European Union itself is far from as far as to be able to cope with these enlargements. And if you want to continue this project of a united, peaceful Europe, you have to admit it openly and try to find solutions here. The financing plan, which has now failed again – at the veto of the European Parliament – would have planned the 27 already. This too is now an open question. Now you could say: If we look at this from the European point of view, we should actually be against this next round of enlargement, namely, Romania and Bulgaria, at that time. It is only in this case that, in exceptional cases, it is the other way round: If it has been said earlier, an enlargement round is important for Europe, but it is perhaps a disadvantage for us here in Austria, in this case it is so that, in my view, this not properly prepared round of enlargement is probably bad for Europe and for the European Union, especially for the institutions and the functioning of these institutions, but for Austria an absolute advantage. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] Austria, which has already been said, is the largest investor in these two countries, and this will certainly be improved by this step, and the opportunities will be improved. And, of course, we also have an interest in discussing security standards with these countries, because many of what we understand here is criminal tourism, especially from the countries of former Eastern Europe, especially from Romania. And that is why we have an interest in entering into a very intensive dialogue with these countries in order to increase security standards, but also, of course, social standards and human rights standards. But it will also be – and I hope that this will happen accordingly – the Commission will have great responsibility to make the decision when this accession will be implemented, whether in 2007 or only in 2008. Here, too, the admission criteria of both sides should be assessed, but above all – and this is particularly important to me – should be brought more light into the dark, for example, of these alleged CIA follow-up prisons in the various countries of the European Union. We now have an interim report from the Council of Europe. I hope there's more going down here. There's got to be a clear signal here. Whether a country is a member or not: If human rights standards are violated in such a serious way, there must also be consequences for these countries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why my group will vote by a large majority in favour of this proposal today. We assume that the final ratification will take place if the Commission has also delivered its results on the progress report and on the date of membership of Romania and Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18581	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18644	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! We now have this so-called empowerment law. We are looking forward to simplifying this two-stage procedure, but I do not hide that we also have certain concerns that certain rights may be disposed of in this way. It is therefore necessary to bring these two procedures together very carefully. The reason for the two procedures is that you no longer need the pass “constitutional” then at the second template, but we will certainly look at it very carefully and actually wait for this all week long. All in all, I have to say: I am now glad, Federal Chancellor, that you are here, but in my view the impression has been given, also by the procedure in the committee, that it is rather an inconspicuous completion of this great and very important project, which we are also very positive. The Committee has been confronted with this now, and we would also have liked to have a timetable for the State Treaty itself, for the Accession Treaty itself, so that we know when this will be adopted in good form and also with the greatest possible public in plenary. So far, Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer has told us, this is not possible, but perhaps, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, it would be quite beneficial to work together and establish a roadmap for this Treaty of Accession in the President-in-Office. In total, you can say: In 1995, Bulgaria and Romania requested admission. The Accession Treaty was signed in 2005. If the preparations continue well, these two countries will become with 1. ==References====External links== However, the Commission and the Council have the possibility of delaying this by one year following the submission of monitoring and progress reports. At the moment, the Commission is very vigilant and is very careful, and developments are quite positive in a number of very serious problems, whether this concerns corruption, money laundering, but also abuse in police custody or minority rights. And for both countries, it is a very, very great opportunity to deal with and solve precisely these problems in these two or three years. There are also positive developments, particularly in the area of child protection: It is already possible to say that international standards have been established. In some areas it is still difficult – many programmes have only started in 2005, so there will still be great efforts to do so quickly – especially in the area of minority protection, but also in the issue of anti-corruption, the expanded Witness protection programme and, of course, the fight against sexual exploitation of women and girls, of trafficking in human beings. We are quite positive about the efforts in this regard. We want the ratification of this Treaty of Accession to take place as quickly as possible and also with due public attention. However, I say one thing quite openly – based on the experience gained with the ratification of the EU Constitutional Treaty –: There has been a very large majority of all political groups here in the House, except for a vote against. In the public debate, however, the BZÖ has been very offensively diverted from this consensus line. I would not like this to happen to these two states in these months of the Austrian Presidency, but rather to be fair in this matter. So: If you have something critical to say, please also say this here and make visible here in the voting behaviour – and not to behave differently here than then outside! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18689	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18711	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Anyone who has a realistic expectation towards Europe can certainly see as a balance sheet that Europe cannot fulfill everything, but that enormously important processes have gone very well, that we are living in a community of states that offers us peace and security that has brought us prosperity. Let us see clearly these important positive elements! Let us see that there has also been an enormous improvement in the economic situation for our country! It tells us very many reports that we have been able to secure a large number of jobs since accession and have also been able to start new ones because we have access to other markets, because we also have sales opportunities in the new countries. If we are discussing today with the decision-making of this empowerment law on two countries, namely Bulgaria and Romania, this is, of course, a discussion that has different facets. If one reads that both countries still have a few chapters to fulfil, that there is a need for urgent action, then those in charge of these countries will probably know what they still have to do until the drafting and presentation of the progress report. I think that it would certainly be successful if this progress report were to be available in May, then implementation would be achieved. I personally believe that there are a lot of things that should be done in a speech here in Parliament, specifically with regard to Bulgaria and Romania: Please do not forget that Austria, for example, has invested a volume of about €6 billion in Romania, that we are strongly involved in both the area of OMV – that is, in the state company Petrom – that the First Bank has made the largest corporate acquisition there at all! These are great things, and I believe that these are good conditions, that a total of about 3,000 Austrian companies are “bodyly present” in Romania today, that they are doing their business there and that we have also been able to increase well over 20 percent in the export business with Romania in recent years. It is similar with Bulgaria: When we read that just a low-Austrian company – the EVN – in Bulgaria could make a very, very good conclusion of a contract on a supply and disposal industrial facility, that Telekom Austria is one of the most potent mobile operators there, then I think it is all positive messages for our country, and I think that we should also transport them with this decision-making. And I hope that after accession there will also be a further deepening. However, what concerns me is the fact that, as I think, we are even more at the centre of Europe and that the danger zones are actually a little more outward, that perhaps Europe and especially our country could become a little safer. The questions are always discussed: Can Europe still grow? and: Where does Europe grow? – I think it’s important that you take the most care in the whole process – no question! – as we are required to be responsible in all areas and in every decision, it will also require a maximum of solidarity and tolerance if we want to develop all of this in a reasonable and peaceful manner. But let me also say one thing here today: I am one of those who started the negotiations with Croatia and Turkey on 3 March. Last October saw very critically. I think that the negotiations are to be conducted – not a question – but I believe that Europe should first be in the continental area, in the continental area, that the enlargement process should take place here. I am not of the opinion that Turkey should be excluded or allowed to be excluded – no! – but I believe that we should first aim at the European continent and perhaps work a little further later on through other forms of cooperation with Turkey. This, I believe, is a subject which also comes from our government, from our Federal Chancellor – thank you for that! – and was very clearly articulated by our foreign minister in October last year, with little support from other countries. In the meantime, however, Germany and other member countries of Europe are also in favour of this line, namely: Growing yes – but growing has to go under control, growing has to be done can, and growth must mean progress and must not be a new risk.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18765	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18786	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The legal issue has already been discussed and also about the fact that it is now only about empowerment, not about accession itself. But, of course, this is an opportunity to discuss the state of the negotiations. In May, the decision will be taken as planned by 1. It is expected that accession will take place in January 2007 or that there will be delays and that it will be until 1 January 2007. January 2008 will take place. In any event, the monitoring reports show that the prospect of accession has greatly accelerated the pace of reform and the two states are trying to meet the conditions. However, it should not only be the prospect of the accession of the reform engine, but it is also in the interests of the States themselves that they create the link to economic and social development, that the rule of law should be strengthened, and democracy – and that the two states have been given political maturity in all reports. The reform of the judicial system – which Mr Wittmann has already mentioned – is of central importance, and this is also the central criticism in all monitoring reports. I was just recently at a conference where parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania have talked very openly about the problems and have also admitted that the crunch point is here, that they have to make increased efforts here, and that the issue of combating corruption is the second very important issue. The reform of the judicial system and the fight against corruption – this is not only important as a basis for economics, important for foreign investment to flow even more into the country, it is also important for the legal security of people in that country, for the security and position of minorities. And this is also a question that is repeatedly addressed in connection with Bulgaria and Romania. I therefore welcome the fact that Bulgaria has set up initiatives for the integration of the Roma population and is beginning to deal with these issues very consciously and very sensitively. However, these two countries need support from the European Union – we have seen this also in Slovakia, which has a large population of Roma living in poverty, in an almost unimaginable poverty. It is simply necessary to support these countries in dealing with these problems. Cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings is also important. The latest November monitoring report on Bulgaria shows that there is great progress: It has been confirmed to the country that it is well over time when it comes to meeting the conditions, and it has also been confirmed that the structural reforms are going well in Romania – clearly: It is not only about deciding the laws, but also about implementing them and creating a social climate. Both countries are important countries for Europe: Bulgaria is a stabilisation factor for the Balkans, and Romania is also of great importance. The fact that both are important economic partners in Austria has already been mentioned. Therefore, it is hoped that the open questions will be dealt with well and soon. Both countries – Romania and Bulgaria – are part of Europe, and as soon as the conditions are met, they are also to become part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18838	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18859	Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Why the hurry?, you would like to ask – we have heard before that the Constitutional Committee has been overly invited. Today we read in the “Kurier” that you actually wanted to make the second part, the final part of the ratification in March – now it will be May. Apparently you already know that you will ratify. You seem to be interested – or do you know how it will look? – the progress report is not yet available. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This has nothing to do with the ratification!]] You intend to do so anyway, I take the “curier. ” For example, there are good reasons to consider 2008 as well – but this is clearly not in question for you – good reasons that we, of course, use for ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not related to the ratification!]] But then please do it after a discussion with the citizen, if this discussion has gone on and if you have once informed the people about what you are doing here! One is the accession of the States. There are, of course, shortcomings – that has already been said – which are still very serious, both in the rule of law and in the issue of corruption. That's not something that can be indifferent to us. The question of border security must also be difficult for us. But above all, it is also a question of the ability to accept the Union now in existence. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:..., that's why you have to be consistent for the Constitution!]] The European Parliament has also rejected a laborious first-time financing concept. Eben, Federal Chancellor, you have received a massive departure in Europe – for it is not all Austria, and there are some places where there is a lively democratic life also from oppositions and even a bourgeois action by governments – in relation to your statement that the EU Constitution will be revived. It is totally unclear to what extent integration should take place. Why do you think that's true? I wonder about your confidence that everything is always going well because everything has gone well so far. Romania and Bulgaria, of course, are parts of Europe according to culture and tradition – in contrast to Turkey. Of course, we also know the argument of the already huge investment of the Austrian economy, but of course there are other criteria as well. One is, for example, the burden on citizens, another is, for example, the question of the security of citizens. These are also arguments, and I also have to ask you: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It all improves with...!]] Miracles Are you really concerned about the devastating assessment that the Austrians now have towards the EU and, in particular, with enlargements? Do you wonder about the results of Eurobarometer studies, which are published regularly? You will somehow bring it together to ruin the idea of Europe, if you continue to do so – past the citizen. At the beginning, the unity of all the political groups has been stressed; that is true, but you are completely lacking a unity: the one with the citizen. There seems to be a gap between you and you, which you are wonderfully agreed on – I am aware of these questions again and again – and which you understand as a political elite who agrees and then does things together – and on the other hand, the citizen, who, if he does not participate, “does not know what is good for him”. You will be able to continue this course on a permanent basis only to the detriment of democracy and to the detriment of our country. We don't want to go there.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18945	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18966	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values of My Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union is unfortunately seen with concern by many Austrians, because they are particularly concerned about an increase in crime. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that only with the accession of these two countries to the Union we have a real opportunity to change something positive. The fight against the dangers in the field of internal security will then be much easier for several reasons. Bulgaria and Romania will take over the legal status of the Union, the security authorities there and the existing Member States will work even more closely on this basis than they have been before. Moreover, a larger Union also has greater opportunities in dealing with security problems, and these concern us more and more together anyway. Especially Austria has and has always had the stated objective of active support and very close bilateral cooperation in the security field, which already works very well through several agreements already in force on mutual data exchange. And finally, the most important argument here: The EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria will force its already impressive – we have heard it from several previous speakers – economic and social upturn much more than before. And what, ladies and gentlemen, does crime work better than prosperity in one's own country? Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments for the enlargement of the Union by these two countries far outweigh the reasons, Mr Rosenkranz, and all of us, including the media, should strive to represent this conviction in the Austrian population much more strongly than before – in our all interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18999	Mr Marizzi is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19023	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Whether to talk about a one-stage or two-stage procedure: I believe that there is a fundamental consensus in this House today, a majority, to talk about an extension to Bulgaria and Romania at least once in a first step. It is not about accession today, it is about the process. And whether we talk about deepenings or enlargements today, it is at least a signal that Parliament is sending to these two countries today. Of course, one must pay attention to one thing: that all these accession negotiations and also monitoring on the part of the rulers take up the resonances from the population. And it can't – and it's also to be said openly – now give a critical state for some time, but one should simply talk about the things that people who are affected by this enlargement are talking about. It has been unanimously approved by the Constitutional Committee of this Government template, which is important and correct, and it should be said first of all: We agree, of course, with this proposal. The economic importance has already been tailored: a European Union, which will later have 480 million people as its inhabitants. Austria is the largest investor in Bulgaria and Romania, we are proud of that. In Romania, for example, there are 3,700 Austrian participations with around €7 billion, while in Bulgaria there are 650 participations with €3 billion. It is an external trade balance that can be seen, and we are proud that Austrian companies have taken the right step in these countries. All this is excellent, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but: For example, if, on the one hand, Romania – I am now taking this country as an example – has a flat tax of 16 percent and at the same time is a net beneficiary, and the EU is financing, for example, the infrastructure – which is very important and necessary – and on the other hand, of course, with this tax dumping – I am now expressing it in a shortened and brutal way – industrial tourism, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is being set in motion and forced, on the other hand, then people in Austria are already afraid and afraid. I do not want to bring negative thought streams into this debate now, but if they have read the newspapers this week and know what happened in the Upper Styria and the southern Lower Austria, where businesses are going from the state to Poland and the neighbouring countries, then the people in Austria are already concerned about such processes, because, Federal Chancellor, the euro has been introduced relatively quickly, and the tax systems are drifting apart. Of course, these countries have legitimate, or unauthorized, desires to attract industrial enterprises, depending on the perspective they see from. But it cannot be that, for example, the euro can be introduced rather quickly or positively, but tax systems and tax harmonisation need years. That means: The SPÖ stands for Europe and for a meaningful enlargement. We also deal with the high unemployment rates. We also deal with the disunity of this society and, above all, with de-olidarization. And what is especially dear to us today – this is to be said today – is the subject of the renaissance of the nuclear power stations: If I hear again that perhaps the next thing is Ukraine, just because maybe 20 or 30 nuclear power stations are approved there, I mean that we have to deal with this very critically. We stand by this Europe, and I can formulate it at the end of my speech as a German news magazine wrote last week: We currently have unemployment and low growth in our core Europe, we have fears about the future of the population through global and local redistributions, and there are no more traditional concepts that take hold. That is, if we are to say a new Europe, then other concepts and other social policy systems must be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19065	Mr. Bundeskanzler, Dr. Schüssel, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19086	High house! Mr State Secretary! I should like to comment briefly on the previous statements. First of all, I am very pleased that there will be broad agreement – based on the unanimous recommendation decision of the Constitutional Committee – to carry out the first phase of constitutional ratification today, which is very important. Bulgaria and Romania participated in this group of twelve enlargement countries. They are practically already part of the policy-making process today. They have negotiated and signed the Constitutional Treaty. They are practically integrated into the decision-making process. It is very important that we also keep the promise that we have given to the people of these two countries after mature consideration. This was discussed again and again in the Hohe Haus on the various levels. We have also carefully highlighted the way in which we are now doing ratification with Bulgaria and Romania in two steps, in a discussion with the party presidents of all political groups, and I am very grateful that we can take the first step today. I am also pleased that this will be possible in a somewhat simplified form in the future. We are really an outsider because we ultimately have to ratify everything four times – because the Federal Council is of course equally involved. This is, I believe, no longer in time, and it has happened that there is a common path here, as it is in other European countries. Allow me to say something about the substance myself, and why, personally, I can recommend the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to you. First – I don't start with the economy –: You all have the right to mention trade relations and Austria as a number one investor. For me, however, the argument that the reunification of Europe really takes shape is much more important. Consider what it would mean not to include Romania and Bulgaria, but to leave it outside in a kind of grey zone, where no one knows so well where these states then orient themselves! In fact, there are only two ways of orientation. I'll leave it to your imagination to paint the possibility of yourself. The second possibility, of course, is the magnetic core of the European Union. And that's what I'm saying quite openly: I believe it is important to give Bulgaria and Romania the same perspective, which was not always taken for granted, in the Commission's progress report, very objectively and soberly, which is also important. There were times when the criteria for accession were still in place with certain questions. In the case of Greece, Spain or Portugal, for example, signs were provided. I am pleased that this path has now been chosen and that it has taken a great step towards peace, freedom of peoples, democracy and, ultimately, the completion of Europe. This will be the case with Romania and Bulgaria, and in later times the rest of the Balkan countries will be treated in this way, in accordance with individual procedures. This shows me that the strategic, the peace argument and the reunification of Europe are actually at the centre. The second is, of course, the security argument. If one looks at the current discussion, such as the energy question, the strategic reprocessing of resources, the satisfaction, the pursuit of export stability and not the import of instability, then I believe that this strategic security issue – not militaryly meant, but even very far into the everyday sphere of every citizen – is very important. The question of Roma was rightly raised by a speaker. Furthermore, the question of child trafficking is a terrible issue! – the trafficking of human beings, the forced prostitution. You have to see what is still happening in the middle of Europe. Look away, friends, draw up borders and raise the fence in the fortress Europe is not enough here! I believe that the path we have deliberately chosen – integration, but with a clear monitoring, with advice, but also with encouragement, with “sticks and carrots” – is the only right way, and it is now beginning to grasp. A speaker brought the example of Slovakia: I have still experienced the time when not the democratics of today have been on the row, but quite different powers and forces. We in Austria have always believed that Slovakia will be able to do so, and today Slovakia has become a real country of show within the candidate countries. I think you should go this way here too! I can say that without passion, because especially my party friends in Bulgaria and Romania are not in power. After many encounters with the young social democratic head of government Stanishev in Bulgaria or with the liberal head of government in the middle of his life, Tăriceanu, I can tell you quite openly: I have the feeling that they mean it seriously! They also want to implement the reforms we recommend, and it is therefore important that we not only make recommendations but also deliver them. This is a separate procedure: The ratification of the accession agreements is a matter. The Commission is expected to set the date for 2007 or 2008 – and this will then require unanimity or qualified majority as in the case of Romania – and within these accession agreements there are these possibilities. So I really can strongly recommend this step towards reunification of Europe here. We Austrians have been building a very close network for many years, not only through the economy, but also politically and culturally. The whole rail from Austria to South-East Europe is a strategic network, at all levels, at all local authorities and also at many ministries. I am now meeting the Heads of Government of the Balkans for the fifth time in Salzburg in summer, and it has now developed a very trusting strategic cooperation which is very important and also bears fruit. Many economic decisions have ultimately been prepared in such networks. Unlike other rounds of enlargement, which I say openly, is already planned in the forthcoming financial perspective of Romania and Bulgaria's accession. This was by the way one of the stumbling stones or one of the major difficulties in this financial agreement in December. And I will also insist that B always says in future enlargements. Enlargements are not available at a zero rate. However, the accession of Romania and Bulgaria has already been incorporated in the forthcoming financial perspective. It should not be overlooked – the issue of nuclear power stations was rightly addressed by Peter Marizzi – that only in the context of the accession perspective will one of the dangerous power plants of the previous generations be closed, namely blocks three and four at Kozloduj, and also through financial support from the European Union and in reliance on the decisions we will take today and in the future. I therefore believe that, out of honest conviction, we should today give an advance of confidence to these young democracies, which are likely to have had the most difficult heritage at all in the Communist period. It would be nice if we could do this today and also at the second stage with the broadest majority. In any case, I would like to express your agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19175	As the next speaker, Mrs Schiesermair is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19196	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! What else is there to say? All the facts and facts were well explained! Our Federal Chancellor has also mentioned things that you, Mr Marizzi, have said: He has also answered well with regard to nuclear power stations. I would have done that. That is why I am now addressing other areas that are important to me personally: Our Chancellor spoke about strategic cooperation and these East-West networks, which are necessary to help the countries that bear the heavy heritage of Communism into the European Union and bring them into the middle. I think each of us here has a small piece of world improver in it. Each of us asked himself in his youth: Why do there have to be so much injustice, so many differences and this arm-range gap? How can each of us contribute to improving this situation? – I think in our next environment, with our neighbours, just one hour away, we now have the opportunity to place a long-planned and of all the desired signs through this empowerment: That's how we do it. About 200 years ago, Friedrich von Schiller said: “Nothing true can be known about the future.” – I think: That was up-to-date at the time and is more up-to-date than ever! Nothing true can be known about the future: We don't know what's going on about us. In part, we have fears and fears. I would now like to refer to the comments made by Mrs Rosenkranz. Today I expected to mention security figures and statistics and was a bit disappointed, because it has made a rather very negative mood. We are now called upon to address these fears of the population. Correct. Each of us is invited to do so – everyone, every political group. I think we can do something about that. “Nothing true can be known about the future.” – Let’s do our best, let’s set good accents, let’s take good action! If we do so, we will sell it, then the population will be less afraid and happy to go into the future, into this united Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19244	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19266	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the areas where we know that there are serious problems there, we must actively address the applicants, ask for improvements and help. Such a field of activity is the fight against child trafficking. The Federal Chancellor mentioned it briefly. Immediate action is needed here, not only in the countries of Bulgaria and Romania, but also in the transit and recipient countries, including Austria. In Vienna alone, more than 700 children and young people under 14 years of age, mostly Bulgarian children, have been attacked in the event of illegal acts in Vienna. In the year before, 2004, it was mostly Romanian children who were brought to Austria by tugs and used for stealing and bedding. On the eve of the Presidency, the Minister of the Interior has made the fight against trafficking in children a priority of the Austrian Presidency, and this is in principle very encouraging. Nevertheless, one cannot spare the government the accusation that for a long time – over five years – nothing or very little has been done against this inhuman practice. In the city of Vienna, MA 11 has previously been the only institution in Austria to deal with this practice, has contacted and cooperated with the Romanian authorities, and it has succeeded in doing so on the basis of statements made by children. Success has been achieved in combating Romanian children's trafficking. Not so with regard to Bulgaria: There is certainly a need for more than the conference scheduled for March, which seeks to raise awareness of executives and authorities. This is an important element, but it is necessary to develop and implement a whole package of measures at national and EU level. The proposal to reduce the level of punishment among young people is the worst possible way to deal with this problem. On the one hand, we know that there are too few personnel from the head of the Federal Criminal Office for Towing and trafficking in human beings. On the other hand, too few measures are being put in place together with the countries concerned and with the authorities. In the candidate countries, it is necessary to implement measures in the field of justice in order to improve structures and to implement reforms. We should use this time to call for measures by these applicants to protect children and young people from this crime against humanity! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19309	The next speaker was Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19330	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that there is a common commitment to this united Europe here today, because I believe it is absolutely necessary that these two states of Bulgaria and Romania also get into the European full space as quickly as possible, not only because they are bordering on the Black Sea, but because the old European tradition is true. Bucharest was once called the “Paris of the East. ” We have very strong economic and cultural links with these countries. They are part of Europe. I think we have a great commitment there! Of course, Austrians also have a lot to do with the Romanian area, whether Hermannstadt or Klausenburg. We must not forget that. Especially in the Styria there is strong contact in this area. We must therefore help where we can ensure that this South-East European region fully enters the European area as quickly as possible. It has also been a great merit for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that the question of Croatia has now been mobilized, because with this area too, centuries of common history, as well as today's economy and cooperation. If you look at the size of Europe, you must not forget that Zagreb – Agram – is the capital of Croatia, from Graz as far away as the Federal Capital of Vienna. We are completely on the right track, and it is therefore a very encouraging thing if we can say that here today too. I believe – and it has already been quoted – that we Austrians have been always convinced Europeans. Grillparzer once said: “Austria is a small world in which the great keeps their test.” – He meant that 14 different peoples and nations could live in a state. That was a small Europe. Today we are talking about the great Europe, and this great Europe needs to be as close as possible, and that with all its strength. We need it because of the economy, we need it because of security, but we also need it because of culture, because of tradition and because of humanity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19364	As the next speaker, Mr Prehauser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19385	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The basic requirement for the success of a common Europe is that as many states as possible address the negotiations together in a way that they can work together in their parliaments to concur as many areas of political society as possible to go the way together. What is happening here in Parliament today is a good condition for us to be able to prepare the population accordingly and to take their fears, especially since there and there it is trying to persuade people that, if Europe becomes larger, Austria would be able to meet without frontiers. We have heard in many speeches today the benefits of a common Europe. We have heard some examples of where there are deficits, which are to be worked out by those countries today, namely Romania and Bulgaria. I believe that it must be the first positive step to recognise its own shortcomings. And one can admit to the Romanians and to the Bulgarians that they are able to do so. This can be seen by going through press reports: The politicians of these two countries are criticizing themselves, putting deficits openly on the table and freeing courts from political influence. Romania's Foreign Minister says: ‘Corruption is a serious threat.’ The same thing: ‘Europe looks nervously over the Carpathians’. We do, of course, because we do not care how quickly the process of democratisation progresses, which is necessary for the integration of these two countries. I believe that we are on a good way to make progress very soon, so that, apart from the empowerment to negotiate, we finally find out what we want: that Europe is getting bigger by two countries again – two countries that are not as far away from us as some want to believe. We know that, in this Parliament too, Romanians have spoken in their language. That is to say, Europe has many advantages for us. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and my fellow Members have made this statement: It is about security, social policy and, of course, economic conditions that Austria should not underestimate. With Romania alone, we have a surplus of half a billion € in the result of foreign trade. – You must not forget that or come under the table! We also have our hands full to create employment in this country, and we need strong partners who need our goods and to whom relations are still expandable. If one draws on the results of the last surveys, it is clear that Salzburg is particularly Europe-friendly. I do not know exactly why this is so, but I am proud of being Salzburger on this question. Perhaps the reason, however, is that Salzburg has been so good economically for a long time, mainly through its tourism. Access to other countries is therefore a special one. I hope that we can achieve this together, that we can take a lead in this and fight the way to expand this common Europe so that our people see this as the corresponding success. – Europe will certainly thank us in the area of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19433	Mr Praßl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19455	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about two countries – Bulgaria and Romania – which belong to Europe. This enlargement means that Austria is moving even further into the middle, into the heart of Europe. The aim of this great Europe is to experience and shape a realization of peace and freedom and also to take control of and shape the future of our common Europe. We need a Europe, a continent of stability for both internal and external security, and we must ensure it. I represent a region and a constituency bordering both Hungary and Slovenia. I can still remember the time when Slovenian tanks moved toward the Austrian border and then fired a shot at the border house as a finale. That was a time that – you could say – was marked by powerlessness. Today, the starting situation is different. We should not be afraid of fear and not be afraid. No, no, no, We now live with these countries, have joint cultural events and live in economic cooperation. Typical examples are the hundreds of businesses – small and medium-sized enterprises – that have already invested in these two countries. There are also combinations in the field of agriculture: What is produced on hundreds of hectares in Austria is processed in Marburg. – That is to say, in the end, this enlargement to these two countries has brought a lot. Romania and Bulgaria are two excellent economic partners for Austria. This has been stressed several times. Thousands of companies invest in these countries. These are outstanding countries with future prospects. Ladies and gentlemen! Bulgaria and Romania will also have to take over the Union's legal status; that is to say, greater security and a secure future for all of us. Europe is growing even closer together with the accession of these two countries. Finally, I would like to stress that more Europe means more security for me, and more security means more future for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19500	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19521	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For a convinced European, the empowerment law in question is a further light. In the case of all the branches, the threat that we might be driving in the legislative process, it is not a shame to have these levels discussed accordingly and perhaps several levels of Europe's creativity in order to discuss them. The EU Presidency can, I believe, make it possible for Europe as a partner in the world to become more important with these candidate countries. This is, in my opinion, crucial, because stability and development of the enlargement candidates should also be a priority in this united Europe. Interestingly today, what was in fact a vision just a few years ago is that the candidate countries really have prospects for accession, even though perhaps some standard of these countries is also worthy of discussion. The development of individual bilateral economic relations between Austria and these candidate countries has already been outlined by my previous speakers. I think that is good, because the economy has been there for a long time now, and if the economy is there, it is all the better that these candidate countries will be fully integrated into this united Europe. The deficits which may exist in rule of law, in safeguarding security and perhaps also in human rights should be eliminated. As a result, it is all the better that these countries also accept our quality criteria and standards and are in the Community, so that we can also help them to address these shortcomings together, and get our standards accordingly. We know that being here is better than limiting – in labour market policy, where distortions of competition arise, or where perhaps some wage dumping occurs. We can eliminate all these things by accession. It is also praiseable to mention the initiatives of Austrians, in particular the initiatives for street children projects, for example by Father Georg Sporschill. These are also indications that Austrians help these countries to get improved standards. This is a welcome decision today, not only for these two countries and for Europe, but also for our country Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19573	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19594	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat anything, therefore only three comments: Firstly, I think it is also a positive sign that Romania and Bulgaria's accession to the Balkans is welcomed, that each new member is seen as a new opportunity and is not taken jealously by the others who will need even longer. It is also good that the Macedonia decision has been welcomed by all. I think it is a positive sign that this region is also reasonable in these matters. Secondly point, which I believe is very important in this context: Our task will be to ensure that the accession of some states and negotiations with others do not lead to new major differences in the Western Balkans. It is certainly not possible to include all of them quickly and at once. However, the obligation will be to see that the faster way of doing so will not make the differences too great by means of a number of instruments, which will be provided by the EU to the others who are approaching. We have a special commitment here, and we need to proceed quickly, especially with the stabilisation agreements. It has been said that although it is not formal, but practically in parallel, for example, the question of Serbia and Montenegro, so that it does not have to be negotiated once again, for example, when it comes to division. Third comment: It is therefore also important to include the whole region wherever it is not strictly concerned with Member States and candidate countries. Austria is progressing with a good example. At the meeting of the EU's external committees, we will invite all the states of the Western Balkans, and the other countries within this EU body have also said yes. I believe that Austria is also a sign of the uniform and good development of the entire Balkans.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19643	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1265 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also accepted by the majority. I again expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. [[20:22:34]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 59, 61, 62, 64, 68, 69 and 71 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 26 and 27 (1267 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19699	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19726	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's speech on the Committee on Petitions's collective report will be devoted entirely to the Citizens' Initiative for the prohibition of imports and trade in dog and cat skins and products produced from them. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In our country, the sale of dog and cat skins is still permitted. Although the Austrian Animal Protection Act prohibits the killing of dogs and cats for the production of food or other products, this does not prevent dogs and cats from China, Taiwan, the Philippines, Korea or Thailand for gloves, belts, car upholstery, shoes, boots, slippers and leather furniture sold in Austria from suffering their lives. With thousands of declarations of support, the International Federation of Animal Testers has addressed the National Council's Petitions Committee, with the urgent request for a ban on imports and trade of dog and cat skins and products produced from them. According to animal friends, more than 2 million dogs and cats for the European market are killed and exported annually in Asia. The dogs and cats are kept under unimaginably cruel conditions and mostly skinned with a living body. I would like to save you, ladies and gentlemen, an exemplary list of these torture methods and infinite animal pains. But so much was said: No one has the right to suspend another creature for minutes of death struggles or to keep it at minus 20 degrees, so that the fur also closes beautifully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with an incredible contempt and disrespect for life and become fellow perpetrators if we do not stop the import of these dog and cat skins! As chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Initiatives, I fully support this petition and refer to countries such as Greece, Denmark, France, Belgium, the USA and Italy which have already imposed an import ban on dog and cat skins. I now turn my appeal to the Minister responsible for this government. Minister Rauch-Kallat had long been able to become an initiative. It is responsible for animal health and animal welfare, but it has not done anything in this regard, as has been the case in women's policy, and it has shone through inactionlessness. It may already be, ladies and gentlemen, that there was some ambiguity about the jurisdiction to issue bans on the import of dog and cat skins. However, these have been eliminated by July 2005 at the latest, because the Minister for Economic Affairs has made it clear in his opinion to our committee that, on the basis of a expertise from the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service, which was also known by the Federal Minister for Health, the ban on the import of the skin is a matter of animal welfare and falls within the competence of the Federal Minister for Health. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore almost cynical for Mrs Rauch-Kallat to report the following to our Committee in a short - i.e. only 15-silence - opinion half a year later: First, that a ban is not possible on the basis of the applicable animal welfare law. Secondly, Austria supports the wish of other Member States for an import ban. Thirdly, that an import ban on media pressure should be reached and that information work is essential. It has not submitted any amendments or regulations on this subject, nor has it initiated information campaigns. In addition, better declaration rules for dog and cat skin products should be adopted in order to enable the powerful consumer to decide at least to purchase a product produced under these horrific circumstances. In this respect, the skins are declared genuine, orthopaedic or not at all, and are therefore not at all recognizable as dog or cat skins for consumers. These are allegations that I cannot spare the competent minister and the government, namely that she has no intention of looking at them and does not, like other EU countries, prohibit imports. This attitude of Minister Rauch-Kallat or the Government has also been manifested by the Members of the Committee. They have only taken note of this citizens' initiative, i.e. it will no longer be negotiated in Parliament. However, I am glad that today a motion for a resolution is tabled by Mr Weinzinger, who is called for by Parliament to take initiatives in this regard, and I am pleased that the Members of the Government are now under pressure because there has been media pressure and pressure on the part of the animalists. We do not need to clarify the legal situation, ladies and gentlemen. This has already been done by the Constitutional Service. – You just need to act!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19817	Ladies and gentlemen. Before I call the next speaker, I would like to tell you that in some place a key has been forgotten. For the purpose of anonymity of the owner I will have him deposited at the gate 1 at the porter; there he would pick up. The next item is Mr Deputies' friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19842	The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has also tried very hard to decide objectively, justly and in the interests of the population. We have taken every concern seriously and done it according to best knowledge. Since the last collection report in June 2005, seven petitions and two citizens' initiatives have been completed. Most of them could be taken into account after having received various opinions. Three petitions were assigned to the Transport Committee. In this legislative period, 79 petitions and 30 citizens' initiatives were already addressed to the Committee. As President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this shows me that the population accepts and uses these instruments of direct democracy. I would now like to comment on Question No 69 on the implementation of EU agricultural reform, tabled by Mr Pirklhuber. In concrete terms, this petition condemns the operating premium regulation in the framework of EU agricultural reform 2005. It is spoken by farmers of second class and illegality of the regulation as well as of expropriated property owners. The Greens have therefore brought this issue to the debate for the xth time in Parliament. To this end, I would like to say: All the agricultural organizations in Austria and all the parties – including the Greens – were involved in these decisions. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where?]] In the course of the EU agricultural reform, which provides for decoupling, it has also been implemented in Austria. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where?]] – In many discussions in the Committee on Agriculture. Even a subcommittee we had set up there, my colleague. [[Abg. Gradwelt:... has not given any discussions! We've heard referendums!]] The decoupling of payments brings farmers greater flexibility, market orientation and thus greater competitiveness. In addition, new commitments have been introduced for farmers in good agricultural and environmental conditions with a view to maintaining agricultural and green areas. The decoupling provides that direct payments granted in the reference period from 2000 to 2002 shall be allocated to the administrator as payment entitlements. The advantage of this model is the fact that non-binding direct payments continue to be paid to farmers. If disadvantages arise due to this model – such as by force majeure, new entry or investment in animal husbandry – these will be offset by toughness and speciality schemes. In order to maintain equal rights for farmers, minimum reference amounts have been set. All agricultural interests were also involved in this decision. This will help the most affected farms. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also opposed to the designation of expropriation in this context. Even before the reform, direct payments were paid to farmers and not to the land owners. As a rule, payment entitlements are passed on by an agreement between tenants and tenants. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Agriculture Pröll does everything in his power to enable the Austrian farmers to do economic work. I also ask you to respect these efforts. The petition was therefore taken note of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19911	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19932	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister of State in absenteeism! Ladies and gentlemen! This time, the collective report for petitions and citizens' initiatives includes seven petitions and two citizens' initiatives. The result of what has been made of these citizens' initiatives and petitions is actually a very sad record: There were five notices and only two allocations. In addition, there are still five requests in the Committee on Petitions, which have been postponed – and this will take some time for more than two years. So it's kind of a weird story, but the government parties aren't willing to explain it. They bring in petitions, which they do not even have to do, because if they wanted to make a change to the law, they could do it at any time, because that is what we are talking about, because we are talking about, in fact, about law that does not need a majority of the constitution. – No, you do not make laws on the grounds of citizens, but a petition. This petition then brings them in, and then they postpone the treatment for two years – even for a longer time, because the legislative period is likely to last even longer, at least until the summer – and then the whole story goes off again. – That cannot be the purpose and purpose of this committee! I would just like to explain to you a little bit and give a few examples of how this works in the Committee on Petitions. There is, for example, a petition on the part of a citizen protest on the construction of another pig stable in Pyhra. What did we want? – Of course, we wanted the allocation to the Committee on the Environment, because of course this has something to do with pollution and pollution. That's, I think, clear to everyone, you don't need to explain that. – However, the government parties said that it was not necessary at all to assign such a matter to a committee. It took note, and with that the petition was gone! Other example: It has been called for for for years that there is a free vaccination against hepatitis B for persons of the voluntary fire department. That's where we Greens said: That must finally be solved! Let us see that this is allocated to the Committee! What did the government parties say about this? - No, that's not important to us! Again, the notice was taken, and the matter was done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is also the example of the petition to implement EU agricultural reform. My colleague, Pirklhuber, will say a few more. We wanted an assignment to the Committee on Agriculture. – The government said: No, it's all not important! It was the note again, and thus this petition was also from the table. It's like a red thread pulling through this whole area. This also applies to the citizens' initiative on the ban on the import and trade of dog and cat skins, which Mrs Wurm has already mentioned. Overall, there were only two allocations throughout the reporting period. This is clearly too little for us, because the Committee is not supposed to work in this way, that there are nine points, five comments and only two allocations, and six remaining topics. Ladies and gentlemen! I expect the work in the Committee on Petitions to be taken more seriously and, as a Member of Parliament, to bring in only such petitions that are really important to you. It doesn't make any sense if you put in a petition to be able to say to anyone: Yeah, I'll take care of it, and if you drag it away for two years and longer and don't implement it. This is absolutely not It is really a reduction in our work and a reduction in the citizens' expectations of the Committee on Petitions. – We must prevent that in the future! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of this collective report, not because the content is not well worked out, because of course it is, and I would like to thank all those involved, but because the way in which citizens' initiatives and petitions are handled is not the way we Greens imagine it and, above all, the way in which the citizens are presented. That is why we reject this collective report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19999	Mrs Mittermüller is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20021	Mr President. High house! From the package of petitions, I would like to address a petition, namely that of the free hepatitis protection against the use of the volunteer firearms. It is true that our nearly 300,000 firemen in Austria always carry a high personal risk in about 200,000 technical or disaster operations and therefore constitute a vulnerable group and therefore need special protection. So, it makes sense to take care of it. Mr Haidlmayr, I would like to contradict you: No one has said that this fact is not important to us! The vaccination rate of the Austrian fire brigades in tetanus vaccinations and tick vaccinations is relatively high. In this case, the costs are mainly borne by the municipalities. Of course, there is also a certain risk of hepatitis infections in fire fighters. That is why, and I come to the real issue, the former Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, in his term of office, has taken up and edited this issue as Minister and has already forwarded a letter to the federal states in 2002 asking for this subject to be dealt with at the national conference. The Federal State of Carinthia has taken up this issue as the only state of my knowledge and launched a vaccination for the firemen in 2004. Carinthia has bought the vaccine in a price-effective manner and, except for a very small amount of self-retaining for the affected. Finally, you can say: Precaution is absolutely sensible, and the Federal Republic of Carinthia is an example in hepatitis prevention, to which other federal states should follow. From this point of view, the majority of the Committee's decision should be taken to carry out the petition by taking note of the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20060	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20081	Mr President. High house! The petition 59 concerns the almost infinite history of the construction of the freight train bypass St. Pölten and the reconstruction of the main station of the Lower Austrian capital. I would like to stress that I also expressly welcome the fact that this main station will finally be brought to a modern standard. With the realization of the station conversion, however, it must also be completed for freight trains to be completed. These two projects can only make the transport hub St. Pölten more efficient for both passenger and freight transport. This means that the freight train will have to be further developed, otherwise the four-track West Railway will remain a Torso. This petition was assigned to the Transport Committee and will hopefully continue to be discussed there soon. I would like to make one comment on the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture concerning the petition to reduce the EIA thresholds and to extend citizens' participation in the authorisation procedure of intensive animal husbandry: I find it really remarkable that the Ministry of Agriculture considers the existing EIA thresholds to be sufficient and considers the environmental impact assessment to be a barrier to the further development of agriculture in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In this matter, it is certainly not the last word that has been spoken, even though the ÖVP and the FPÖ have buried this petition by taking note of it. The third petition I would like to address concerns the impact of the "Team 04" reform plans on the police of the capital of St. Pölten. It is a fact that crime in Austria is rising almost unabated. St. Pölten is also affected by this unpleasant development: Thus, the number of offences per year increases by around 14 per cent, but the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on this petition and to the rise of crime in the capital of St. Pölten is only such a source of fine dyery. – Become alone with this painting However, they do not get under control of the increasing crime! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that this petition was not assigned to the Committee on the Interior for further discussion, but it was also given a first-class funeral, so to speak, by taking note.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20130	Next item is the report by Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20151	Mr President. High house! Mr Heinzl, of course I must tell you that this is a legitimate concern with the transit of goods. However, there are appropriate timetables, and it will certainly come in time for realization. If you have already addressed the station, you will certainly also be able to help your group get closer to the project of the underground garage at the station front. All in all, I believe that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has dealt with a wide range of issues, and some petitions have been completed. I must say to you that you are calling for an EIA for piglets: This is a question of spatial planning, and in this area it belongs, and it has rightly been taken note of. Mrs Haidlmayr, I would like to say to you: They criticise here – it is no longer there – the process in the Committee on Petitions. What the Greens are doing is a little grotesque: They put in petitions to ban mobile masts, but in the Lower Austrian country day, they voted against all the measures that would have led to a reduction in mobile phone masts. It's a little inconspicuous. If you have concerns like the one that forbids the sale of ferrets, or the import of cat skins, then I have to say: We're in a good country! I think we don't have really big problems here. I would like to stress that all petitions have been well debated, adequately treated and given a solution. If someone's not satisfied with the balance sheet, I'm personally sorry. I like the work in this committee: This is a panoptic of the interests one is faced with. I think the Committee is also, I say, a very active one, and it is very, very interesting to work there. Finally, I would like to say: Mr Heinzl, what happened to crime in St. Pölten: You have to say to the slightly increased number of cases that the values of the education statistics have also increased significantly – better than before! I would like to say to you, Mr Heinzl, that I have been criticised. When you made the security reports – every year, sometime – they fit in your opinion. And now that they're coming monthly, shouldn't they fit?- Oh, my God! – You have to explain that to me once!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20200	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20222	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker did not see any major problems in an important animal protection matter. – Luckily, there are people who are not allowed to take part in a committee but who are willing to make a little more commitment to the concerns that citizens have to address to this House. I am pleased that we can therefore submit a four-party resolution application on the issue of “Import ban on dog and cat skins”. It has already been carried out, and at least at least some of you – I hope the members of the Committee on Petitions, including Mr Brader – know, under what conditions dogs and cats in the South East Asian region are kept in the first place and – under quotation marks – “produced”. They are apparently skinned or often enough with a living body, so that some coat or other coat gets a fur collar or that some children's toy is provided with genuine fur, which consumers usually do not know or want to know. I believe that it is therefore important to send a clear signal with an import ban, a signal that is EU-compliant. There are, as has already been pointed out, several countries that already have such an import ban, and there are several statements from Commission representatives calling on the national states to make such a regulation at their level. We also know that it is WTO compatible, because the US has already imposed such an import ban. I am pleased that we have come to the realization that it must, therefore, be possible for Austria to decide on such a national ban on imports. I would therefore like to make this point to the request made by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Achleitner, Mr Krainer and Mr Weinzinger: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I'm not gonna hide that there's still two drops of wormwood in there. From the point of view of animal welfare, this one is that this is, of course, a step towards creating, as it were, a multi-class society in animals: The furs of dogs and cats, which are closer to us as animals, should not be used, while the furs of the foxes or noses are already good, although they are produced under a little better attitude conditions. I would ask you to think about it too. The second, large, advertising drop is the way in which the petition committee and this House are constantly being dealt with by citizens. We have a case here, which would have landed almost in the eternal cycle between supposedly non-competent ministries or levels, where the information of one ministry was that it was not responsible, and the other said that the EU was responsible. The EU said: No, the nation states are responsible! So a cheerful I-circuit-around-sicking of responsibilities. – In addition, the Committee on Petitions says: We note that there is a concern, but the Parliament should not deal with it more closely! I would like to see the Committee on Petitions more involved in the future in ensuring that we get the negotiating items presented in the other committees for discussion and debate them here in plenary in order to be able to deal with them in joint resolutions, as you can see here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20288	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Achleitner, Mr Krainer, Mr Weinzinger, Mr Weinzinger, Mr Weinzinger, and others, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20340	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20364	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that petitions and citizens' initiatives are one of the most important instruments of our democracy in order to bring concerns to Parliament very quickly. But what is not particularly amusing to me is that when it is tried to do political agitation on petitions and, above all, on citizens' initiatives, it has unfortunately happened in this volume. The point that I mean specifically concerns the planned closure of the Kaserne Aigen in the Ennstal, where a citizens' initiative with Col. Fleckl has created unrest in this region, which has led several mayors to write letters claiming that the barracks are being locked up. This is simply a matter of the hair, as the Federal Force Reform Commission never spoke of closing Aigen in 2010, but always – and that's just the uncertainty, if one doesn't really deal with matter, but only wants to use it politically – only a reduction of two Alouette III helicopters to one was the talk. This was also clearly expressed in the request response of the BMLV. To do some educational work here: It reduces the Alouette II to 12 machines with a 20 percent circulation reserve, with a maturity guarantee by at least 2015 with an extension possibility up to 2030. That is why I would ask that in the future, in this context, we should distance ourselves from political agitation and, instead, let the facts speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20394	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20415	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the petition concerning free vaccination against hepatitis B for voluntary fire brigades. A small addition to Mrs Mittermüller's remarks: The country of Carinthia is immunizing, but with strong participation of the communities – as you are even putting most of it down to the communities that are already pummeling and moaning under this load. The issue of labour and social protection for volunteers in general has been debated here in the House for several years, mostly against the resistance of this government, which does not really want to change something in this area. Each of us is happy to be provided with assistance in the event of an emergency or in the event of disasters, whether by professional fire brigades or other volunteer helpers. These people provide enormously important services for our society. They are always praised, praised and emphasized with words, but a corresponding network for these volunteers is not established. For example, there would be a real disadvantage for the voluntary and voluntary helpers of rescue and aid organisations, in the field of labour law and social law. For example, there is no right to benefit with entitlement to compensation for the duration of the operation. Another example: We still debate the professional image of Feuerwehrmann/Feuerwehrfrau. All these questions are just as satisfactoryly solved as the free vaccination against hepatitis B for voluntary fire brigades addressed in the petition. Questions that have been resolved: There is something else that comes to my mind, and this brings me to an issue that brings an additional risk to these volunteer helpers, namely the police, the fire brigades, the rescues, and so on, namely, the planned 160-km/h test track on the Tauern motorway, which is to be set up in spring. To the already known criticisms such as more noise, more CO2, more risk for road users, the risk for the forces is also increased by this speed increase. The protection of an accident site is difficult even at normal speeds. If this is then increased to 160 km/h, the danger to the volunteer helpers will be even greater. Obviously, however, the security of volunteers is not a particular concern to the government parties. This can be seen in the medical field, such as hepatitis B protection, but also in the protection against lawns on motorways. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20461	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20482	Thank you very much, Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Petitions and citizens' initiatives are rights and opportunities for citizens to be heard on important issues. The concerns, concerns and fears of the citizens are formulated and expressed in the hope that they will also be taken seriously by the elected representatives. Unfortunately, these civil rights are increasingly taken up by political parties and organisations. Whether such associations meet the concerns of the population would be critical to question. To this end, the following examples from the last committee: Commission decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria on the conclusion of the Agreement between the The textual wording of this petition was adopted by a Member of the National Council on 18 November. ==References== This petition was received here on 9 May. ==References====External links== On 7 May 2005, a decision was taken on this subject on the basis of the National Security Council's deliberations. ==References====External links==* Official website [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] On the petition 8: There was also a similar procedure: Form of the Austrian Trade Union Left Block concerning the maintenance of the post in public property. This is clearly a politically motivated form of anxiety. The Post Act gives clear answers to this citizens' initiative, as well as the process of the Federal Government in the exchange process. Now I would like to comment on Question No 15 on a free vaccination against hepatitis B from the last session. Of course, we all take note of the achievements of the voluntary firearms and the fire brigades as a whole, and we are also aware that there should be regulations here. Due to the economic importance of fire brigades, one should be in Austria I would like to make a serious point. With regard to the costs, a consensus should be sought between federal, state and social security. A possible approach to this might be the implementation provision in the Styria. The vaccination costs amount to only more than €38.20 instead of €68. The costs of the first partial vaccination are borne by the fire department or the community. The cost of the second partial vaccination is borne by the firecomrade or the comrade herself. And the third partial vaccination is financed by the fire tax. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and would like to continue to take the concerns of citizens seriously and to act for their benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20530	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Up to 4 minutes of welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address three petitions from this collective report, namely three petitions, which show very clearly that this Federal Government has failed massively in terms of the environment, health and social justice, and has caused massive failure and does not de facto take the concerns of the population seriously. I refer to the petition 71 concerning an initiative to prevent further mobile masts in the Feyregger residential area. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of mobile phone masts, mobile communications and the influence of these radiations on health and well-being has been a topic for citizens in Austria for years. This petition calls for legal measures at last to be taken against the wild growth of mobile masts, for housing and settlement areas to be protected, and for the arrants and communities to be given a right of co-determination. Ladies and gentlemen! These are very clear political concerns that have been expressed for years. But what are you doing about the government parties? What are you doing with this petition? They shall assign them to the Transport Committee. [[Abg. Sieber: That's where she belongs!]] .This is at least positive, but you do not allow an opinion. Especially one: Federal Minister Gorbach has been responsible for this for years, although he has a regulatory authority under Telecommunications Act, but he has not amended this regulation in order to ensure that there are local rights in order to have the relevant rights of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! That's incredible! 420 people have signed this petition. I would like to give you a brief account of this case: There are seven mobile mast systems in this municipality at four locations. This municipality has 2 100 inhabitants, so it is really not a large community, but a typical community in rural areas. I think it is totally irresponsible to deal with citizens in this way. The municipal council there has adopted a resolution, and has been behind the citizens. The country of Upper Austria has also adopted a resolution on the basis of an initiative proposal in 2005 – that is already more than half a year ago – which clearly calls for: We need limit values and a minimization bid such as Switzerland – that would be forward-looking – and we need the right to co-determination of the communities and, of course, the corresponding safeguarding of the right-wing! – That would be quite clear. This is widely discussed in the public, but we are waiting and waiting. But Minister Gorbach does nothing, nothing at all! This is a clear failure on the whole line! Ladies and gentlemen! For the environment, the petition 61 has already been cited to reduce the thresholds for intensive animal husbandry in the context of the environmental impact assessment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What about the agricultural reform?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this petition, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment gives an opinion which disavows the Minister for the Environment. He says that there have been three EIAs throughout the country. I would like to stress that three environmental impact assessment procedures across Austria are based on this law and on these thresholds! Considering the fact that the current thresholds are 2 500 pigs for fattening or 65 000 for fattening, one must say: These are dimensions that hardly reach an operation in Austria. So what you're preventing and refusing here is an adjusted, target-oriented threshold regulation, which would really put intensive farms in place, so that the arrants can also come to their right. You refuse that too! [[Abg. May. Worm: Unfortunately!]] They do not want to allocate this matter to the Committee on the Environment. I now come to the above-mentioned “social justice” and am in the already quoted petition on just agricultural reform. My friend has already explained very widely that he believes that everything is quite great and well solved. Ladies and gentlemen! The farmers concerned clearly speak of a cold expropriation – that is the case – of a cold expropriation of fundamental rights. It was rightly agreed that the Ministry is once again seriously concerned about the representation of farmers' interests, namely the Chamber of Agriculture. What is the case? . We have a single opinion, and this opinion is from the same ministry which has adopted the regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a curious and completely undemocratic process: A ministry will not criticize its own regulation! Mr Scheuch and Mr Freund: In its opinion, the Ministry even admits – that is embarrassing enough – that there would have been other ways of implementing it, namely according to objective criteria. This clearly says that it would have been very possible to better implement it at least differently. [[Abg. Murauer: There are different opinions about this!]] Finally, you do not assign this petition to the Committee on Agriculture, where you could have discussed it, Mr Scheuch, and also could have repaired it. No, you didn't agree! What is now out in the Austrian Agriculture Fact? – The fact is that AMA issued the letters at the beginning of January. Hundreds of farmers have now opposed these decisions. We will go to the Constitutional Court together with these farmers. This is a very clear question, because a regulation here is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to make such essential interventions in civil rights. There is an up-to-date knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice on a similar issue, namely, in relation to the 2000 animal premium regulation. This animal premium regulation was recognised as unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in December 2005 for the reason that it regulates matters in an area which is not covered by a legal basis, by a legal regulation in the Market Rules Act. Where the EU Regulation approves of several possible implementations, there is also a need for a legal regime where there are different implementations. That is exactly what is not happening in the whole agricultural policy in Austria at the moment! They are trying to determine everything by Parliament! [[Abg. Friend: Not at all!]] Of course that's true! The next rural development programme, which is now under preparation, is also in place. This rural development programme should also and must – and I am convinced that it will be so – pass through this Parliament if it is to be regulated in accordance with the Constitution. You will see that we get right, and in this sense I can only say: A failure on the whole line, Mr Scheuch!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20649	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Wolfgang Pirklhuber, I just said: You told me the war too early; wait first for my opinion on this issue! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the petition on the newly structured agricultural support, on the farm premium. We have discussed this long and detailed in the Committee on Agriculture. We have made a subcommittee of our own. We asked a lot of experts. We talked a lot about it. We did not understand the way of the Federal Minister at the time, but we also carried him, so to speak, because of other choices. That's not a question! I don't like to say, We have, of course, also agreed to this opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. However, I would also like to stress – and I say this to you very clearly here – that in recent days, weeks and months, many farmers, farmers in Carinthia, have also approached me who have problems with this farm premium model. I believe – at least I welcome Mr Pirklhuber's suggestion – that we should be able to put together once again, perhaps in a small round, and at least discuss a change of framework conditions, which could solve problems. I know a case in my home, and it is about a larger structured farm, whose owner has explained to me that he will now choose green because you, Mr Pirklhuber, are the only one to fight for it. – I don’t think so, because you want to take away the promotion in general. It is quite a large business. This corresponds to €70 000 per year in concrete terms. He gets €70,000 less funding every year than he has, as it were, been granted to him because he had the problem – listen! – that he leased two large arable land that had previously had a different farm. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How much do they get at all?]] That's 400 acres. That's a big business, not a question. The former leaser has retained the rights, and the leaser has not had any rights to lease. In reality, this is now €70 000. I think that's probably enough reason to think about it. We are currently discussing this problem together with the Chamber of Agriculture, together with the representatives of all the parties in Carinthia in the Chamber, and looking at the extent to which derogations and derogations, the Hard Fund and all these things are capable of solving this problem. We will first try to solve this over this level. This is a first approach. However, if it turns out that these problems cannot be solved there and the whole issue is getting worse, then perhaps, I must honestly say, Mr Pirklhuber will have a fellow-championer. From today's point of view, I cannot finalise that. One thing is clear: No matter if coalition, whether opposition, I think there's no one in it: I have been representing farmers for five years with a lot of commitment and a lot of joy, and if this is really to the detriment of the farmers and this can be proven to be sustainable – at the moment it seems to me to be a bit of a party polemic in many areas – then together with the ÖVP we will also talk about solutions. I am convinced – I do not know whether or not there is talk of the ÖVP, which deals with it – that we will then run open doors at the Farmers' Federation, because it will not be in the interest of the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, I suppose, nor in the interest of the Minister to harm farmers. So I'm convinced it can't be. Perhaps the coalition will present a solution variant. You're going to look at other ways. Only: The fact that there are farms, farmers, farms, that it is not possible to do so, is not allowed to do so. I am not entirely d’accord with your argumentation, colleague, as regards the vegetable farmers and the other farms and areas. There is no need to see why the compensatory payments should be made, why they should get a KPA if they have grown other fruits so far. I don't quite understand. We don't agree. However, if there are farms that have previously produced in this area and have also produced afterwards in this area and only because they are so-called leased land from other farms, but which are not willing to give up the payment entitlement in order to fall over money, then perhaps one will find a solution, such as such that a payment claim, if one does not pay it for three years, automatically falls on the holding. This would be a solution, for example, where it is said that this payment claim is not transferred to the national reserve, but rather that it is ensured that it falls forcefully to the successor. It might be possible to solve the problem. We should discuss this. We will perhaps discuss and consider this in the context of the current debate in the next Committee on Agriculture, which will be held soon. The Committee on Petitions may not have been the right one in this case. The answer shows us that there is a need for action. In the Committee on Agriculture, we will then hold the debate together and hopefully find a solution in the interests of farmers, which will then be given broad support where all parties are in favour. It cannot be in the interest of any party that agricultural holdings fall around for funds to be granted to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20710	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rada. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20732	Mr President. High house! I am happy to give my previous speakers the right to believe that this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Rights is a very interesting committee in conflict with various interests, with direct democracy. I am all the more surprised that more and more issues that are being debated are being taken note of, postponed, totally unassigned and not dealt with in this committee. I would like to deal with his petition 71, just as honourable Member Pirklhuber is concerned with mobile phone masts in general. The mobile phone masts are a problem in Austria, although I do not want to be one of those who give up the operation of a mobile phone. It is all about getting to grips with this problem. However, this is not because we simply take note of such a petition, but rather because it is a matter of taking action. I do not mean simply taxing the measure which the head of state of Lower Austria has taken. I just don't understand that every operator has to have his own masts, and I don't want to go so far as to address the agricultural problem, the landscape structure as a whole, if so many mobile masts are in beautiful nature and are not really site-promoting, but above all to indicate what health damage there can be. Our Minister for Health has never mentioned this, although there is no sure evidence as to how harmful mobile phone masts actually are. But we know of a lot of residents who have to live in the field of mobile masts, how their quality of life is thus limited. It would be the most necessary task for an Environment Minister or a Minister of Health to do something in the direction of a scientific approach to this issue. Therefore, you may want to see how far electrosmog, how far frequencies occur in different areas, are harmful to health. This would be the task of a competent minister – and not just a majority in the Committee – to take note of this. That's really too little! It is also a responsibility of the government to deal with such issues – even though it may feel that this is not a really important issue. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh yes!]] This is important for all concerned! It would be in the Committee's interest that not only would everything be taken into account, but it would also be serious about such issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20766	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20788	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As part of this report on petitions, I would now like to limit myself to the petition on the prohibition of the import and trade of dog and cat skins. We have dealt with this petition in a very detailed manner in the Committee and have received a number of opinions. It is simply not true that we did not deal with this in the Committee on Petitions, my colleague, Worm! Their allegations that the Members of the Government would tolerate this and do nothing about it are simply incorrect! The fact that dogs and cats are being abused in China, even in Asia, for the purpose of marketing the fur and leather, is terrifying. I am the owner of two Bernese send dogs myself, therefore: For me, it is in itself unimaginable how animal torment and horrendous dogs and cats are killed there! It is important to put in place proper measures, measures that also have effectiveness, and not just to try to find a pro-forma solution. [[Abg. May. Worm: Import ban!]] That is why I am also very grateful for the fact that my colleague Ulrike Gabitzer-Bombgartner has tabled the initiative for this joint request, a request that a colleague from the Greens has made, after which we want to consider a national ban on imports of dog and cat skins legally clear and appropriate implementation steps. It is also very important that an international labelling system is established at European level to ensure that it is stopped and to raise awareness of where dog and cat skins are delivered or processed in the direction of those markets. It is at least a matter of concern to all four parties, which is why this four-party request is also made. In any event, I would like to stress that the issue of animal torture should be dealt with in itself and limited to other topics when you are on the go. But I am glad and grateful that everyone has come in and that there will be measures to end these cruel practices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20824	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20846	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reports of the Committee on Petitions once again show very clearly the areas in which the citizens of the shoe are pressuring. Also from today's collective report, the concern about the loss of infrastructure is to be read. Less executive, less post office, less transport connections: All these are topics that are particularly important for rural people. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It makes a difference whether one has the executive in the place or has to wait in the emergency until the police either move from the neighboring village or from much further away. It also makes a big difference whether the post office is in the place or whether I have to put myself in the car to come to my packages or give up letters. It also makes a difference whether I can move by bus or train at acceptable intervals from A to B or whether I depend on the car. [[Abg. May. Worm: If you have one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! While fewer post offices and poorer local transport for mobile people in rural areas are at best a massive nuisance, this is a serious problem for young people and especially for older people, for how to deal with these longer ways if you can't drive or not. Ladies and gentlemen! For these very practical reasons, petitions and citizens' initiatives, which deal with the loss of existing infrastructure and the thinning of supply, especially in rural regions, are regularly on the agenda of the Committee on Petitions, because such developments basically mean much less quality of life for people. Therefore, from our point of view, it is absolutely not acceptable that the same requirements are repeatedly diluted among the same rural areas. We will continue to discuss the fact that the government parties here are pioneers and developmentists. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20882	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20904	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the High house! As a member of the volunteer fire brigade in my home community, I can recover some of the petition 62 in which the free vaccination against hepatitis B infection is required for voluntary fire brigades. The versatile operations also pose a variety of dangers. But it is by far not every fireman in the risk group for such infections. This opinion is also shared by the Association of the Vorarlberg Fire Department. It is therefore necessary, in talks with those responsible, to identify the groups which urgently need this vaccination. We will certainly have further discussions on this petition. However, I would like to dedicate the rest of my speaking time to the petition 69, in which Mr Pirklhuber once again criticized the CAP reform. After mature consideration, Austria has opted for this model because it brings considerable benefits to the rural family farms. I only call the safeguarding of the milk quota by 2014, because without the quotas milk production would disappear from our mountain areas. I call the increase in the suckler cow quota by 50 000 cattle, which means that a much larger group of people has access to this possibility, because now all the meat-breeding intra-breedings are included in this programme. Not for nothing, many European farmers look admirably at Austria's negotiating results. All of this would endanger you with a riveting of this package, and that would be irresponsible to our farmers. Of course, we are willing to discuss problems that exist, but, please, this package can and must not be remedied. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's not legal!]] In order to show that all premium entitlements remain with the pre-earner, it should be noted that there was very likely the possibility of a pre-transfer, which was also used by many farms, because it is not possible for the pre-earner to use the premium without the necessary area. You also object to your argument, because on the one hand, you demand that premium payments remain with the actual administrator, on the other hand, you base on democratic fundamental rights, say property rights. How would you like it now? Equal treatment is also provided, of course, because of course this law applies to all establishments. However, your criticism of the assessment period would have to explain to me on an occasion, because any other system would inevitably lead to a distortion and make it impossible to finance. You, Mr Pirklhuber, are also happy to present the interests of the miners. If you were serious about this, you would have to know that decoupling would ensure that the alpine farming and thus livestock farming in the mountain region are safe because the participating feeding areas of the Alps are needed in order to be able to fully benefit from the payment entitlements. If you are serious about representing the interests of the farmers, talk to people who also understand something about this matter. Talk to our Minister Sepp Pröll, talk to Fritz Grillitsch, talk to our Chamber President, talk to the officials and members of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, because we are the representative of Austrian agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20946	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grossmann 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Vorsprechner – or talk to Heinz Gradwelt, because he understands more about agriculture than all of you combined! That would be my recommendation on this subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The theme of petitions and citizens' initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, is becoming increasingly broad. In addition to general policy issues, a large number of petitions concern the living environment of people, the quality of life, the basis of life, health. Especially common are petitions brought in because of the violation of the interests of the people, such as the petition 71: “Initiative to prevent further cell - phone masts in the Feyregger residential area. ” There is, as I mean, hardly a district in which the problem of cell phones has not yet occurred. If you want to be mobile everywhere, this of course also requires corresponding transmitters, but completely unsolved is still the location question. Mr Pirklhuber has already described the concerns: The right of participation of the arrainers, corresponding limit values, the minimization offer according to Swiss model. In Austria, the policy of a binding solution has so far, unfortunately, been pressed with the consequence that the law applies, the Lautere is right. In other words, if a few people organize themselves accordingly and articulate loud articulate, the mobile operators for image reasons usually make a bow around this area, and those who do not scream are put in front of the transmitter. Fortunately, the people concerned in this area were so clumsy and have resisted. There have been similar cases in my Voitsberg district. Once in the midst of a residential area, one wanted to place a mobile mast on a roof, another time even near a folk school. The objection to health risk would have been completely empty after legal expertise, because it has not been officially confirmed, although there are numerous studies to prove this, but the mobile operators are of course quickly on the scene with a counter-examination. As my colleague Rada has already said, a binding study by the Ministry of Health, which is not only economic interests, but also the concerns and fears of the people take seriously, really highly due. In the case of my district, which I would like to tell you briefly, the mayors have helped themselves by calling for an impairment of the local image in the negative decision, because the possible health risk was not sufficient as a reason and would have been rejected by the higher authority as a purely subjective feeling. So if, in this case, people feel overwhelmed by politics, that's no wonder. A clarification with an appropriate balance of interests is really necessary here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21031	Mr Schweisgut is the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21052	Mr President. High house! I admire the courage of my previous speaker, Mrs Grossmann, to appreciate the knowledge of the people. I hope that their other knowledge in politics is higher than their knowledge of their colleagues. [[Abg. Reheis: Very charming!]] But this may only be a short advance. I too would like to speak about a citizens' initiative, namely number 27. It has been started by our chairmen on this issue, and my Tyrolean colleague has also been engaged in the import of dog and cat skins. I think that this four-party proposal today is actually a very good solution to a subject that would otherwise have been very difficult to solve, even if one believes that one can make a decision. I know from various other areas that it is easier if one does not try to regulate something about a legal approach, but one really has to regulate it at European level. Tirol, for example, is located directly on the German border, and there is no import ban in Germany, i.e. through the German market, dog and cat skins can enter through free trade at any time. Therefore, if you really want to act in the sense of dogs and cats, it would be useful to see the project as a pan-European project in general. A first step is certainly to ban it in Austria, but think about fur farming. Even there, with the increase in inadequacies in 1998, one has already achieved that there have been no fur farms in Austria since then, although this has not been prohibited by the new Animal Protection Act until 2004. That is, if the conditions are worsened and the population's awareness is forced to a greater extent, I am confident that there will certainly be a significant reduction in imports through voluntary renunciation. Nevertheless, I think it is good that this four-party request has come up that we are also dealing with this problem. Even though I do not always see the reports that Mr Karremann brings on television as being 100% correct and objective, he is doing a lot of things to make animal suffering come to us from far away countries and one may be able to change a few things. I believe that our objective must be an EU-wide ban. At the same time, it should be clear to the public that the use of dog and cat skins is not explicitly excluded, but that in certain situations some dog and cat fur will certainly continue to be in use, because an import ban does not permanently resolve the whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21089	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. He's talking to us for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21110	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard today that work in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is still very constructive, despite often very different views over long distances. But I would like to say that we sometimes need too strong nerves to be able to survive this committee. I say this, of course, as a member of the opposition. I understand that Mr Brad's work in this committee is less than mine, especially when it comes to the countless postponement decisions that are repeatedly taken on specific templates. I would like to say quite honestly, I think we must be careful that this approach does not lead this committee ad absurdum. That's, like I mean, very important. Mr Haidlmayr has already pointed this out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make one more point: Creation 61. The issue is the reduction of EIA thresholds and the expansion of citizens' participation – even today. I simply believe that this problem is really underestimated, and I am sorry, it is just a pity that we have not been able to convince the government groups to bring this proposal to a committee. It is difficult if an intensive-animal farm is allowed to expand enormously without the arrivals being allowed to participate in any form. That's really a problem, and it's a fact that the EIA thresholds are much too high. That too has already been mentioned. Interesting is the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, which means that the EIA thresholds are sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this position is absolutely not a signal towards modern environmental standards. We will in any case – and I may say this here – not be relaxed to help the affected people to share their right of participation. Another sentence on petition 69, because this was also the subject today. Yes, I believe that the independent initiative rightly criticizes the current farm premium model, where farmers are treated differently. My colleague, Mr Scheuch, has finally proved it. I am looking forward to the next Committee on Agriculture, which he has announced will be a little wild history. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I also think it's not going to be so hot, we've heard this a lot. On this occasion, however, I would also really like to criticise the unfair funding system, which is still very common, because it is still the case that 20 percent of farms receive 80 percent of the support. I must say from this point of view that we are not going to allow any opportunity to show this injustice over and over again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21169	Next word: Mr Kurzbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21192	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with petition number 64 in my remarks. This is about noise protection measures in the local transit of Altlengbach in the area of the West motorway of the Knot Steinhäusl. On this section of the line, around 60,000 vehicles per day, with trucks representing about 15 per cent per day and about 25 per cent at night. Ladies and gentlemen, this node of stone is one of the most difficult and complicated cases for setting up noise protection measures in motorways. For this reason, one of the best-known or best-known experts has been used to develop solutions for optimum noise protection. On the one hand, it is about the cost-effectiveness of this project, and on the other hand, it is about the optimal protection for the arrants. The studies will be completed in the coming weeks, and the solution proposal will ultimately be presented to the population, the citizens' initiative, the stakeholders, but above all the ASFINAG. From today's point of view, the construction of noise protection measures in this section will start this year or at the beginning of 2007. The second section is the section of the line from the Knot Steinhäusl towards the west to the ascent of St. Christophen. There are currently calls for tenders for the extension of the West motorway. Construction work will begin in the first half of this year, i.e. in a few months. The necessary noise protection measures are, of course, also being installed in the course of this construction work – this is the issue of broadening. So I'll just get together. Knots Steinhäusl: Beginning of the noise protection measures at the end of 2006/beginning 2007 and the expansion of the West motorway in the area of St. Christophen to Knoten Steinhäusl in the middle of this year.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21229	Mrs Bayr is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21251	Mr President. High house! Many, many months ago, the representatives of the international groups in the shoe, textile and clothing industry were assembled somewhere in the silent chamber and discussed what will be the top and current in the winter of 2005/2006. Pelzkräägen and fur boots have come out, among other things. It is the fact that the names that carry these products are very often confusing. There is talk of genuine fur or orthopaedic leather, and consumers are led astray. It is also very often very difficult for professionals to determine which fur is in concrete terms. We know that dog skins often come from northern China, where dogs are kept at minus 20 degrees and less outdoors, so that the furs close. These dogs are then skinned with a living body. We know cats are drowned with wire slings and their death fight lasts minutes. It is clear – in which we all agree –: Fur breeding, this form of fur breeding in particular, is inhuman. The declaration of these products is missing, and so far there has been no legal handling against imports. I very much welcome the fact that there is this four-party request. It is also worth noting that national rules already exist in many other countries, such as Belgium, Italy, France, Greece and Denmark, and that Germany is also currently discussing a scheme. And, of course, it is desirable to ban imports at EU level. I am really glad that we are taking this path of the four-party proposal and not the way the Federal Ministry of Health and Women originally proposed to the Committee on Petitions, which writes: “At present, it would be desirable to achieve rethinking at international level by means of appropriate media pressure. At the same time, educational work is essential, especially since the least consumers are informed about the use of dog and cat skins in the fur industry and in the manufacture of children’s toys.” Who is this appeal to carry out publicity, if not to the ministry itself? – I find it fine that in terms of animal welfare here in the House we speak a much clearer language than the Ministry did on this question, and I am fully in favour of this four-party request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21293	Mr Pack is the next speaker. He too has a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21314	Mr President. High house! Almost every previous speaker and each previous speaker has already mentioned that petitions or citizens' initiatives are an important part of democracy and, of course, promote the direct participation of the population in political processes. I see it the same way. It can really be said that the citizens also appreciate this instrument. We also note the numerous petitions and the fact that the members of the Committee take their work seriously. It is also interesting, as the “Wiener Zeitung” writes about this committee. She has a column on what is happening in the National Council today, and she writes: "Then a joint report from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives will be presented. The debate will focus on everything from free hepatitis vaccinations for members of the voluntary fire brigade to police reform in St. Pölten to EU agricultural reform and a ban on dog fur imports. As always, some of the points to be discussed are already obsolete. In the end, the citizens’ initiative to preserve the barracks of Aigen, as it has not fallen victim to the closing plans of the Ministry of Defence.” In fact, this article should also include: This was never included in the Ministry's plans, and even then when this citizens' initiative was submitted, it had been from the table for a long time. This is also the danger: Many members of the opposition have complained in their speech that so many petitions are only taken note of. This is logical, however, because if petitions like Mrs Fleckl's are brought in, then nothing will be left to us but to know what she is doing. Because otherwise you can't do anything with it. These citizens' initiatives only operate political hetzes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Just a short while on the subject of cell phone masts. Of course, one must seriously observe this area, but one must not spread unnecessary panic. There is no secure data on the health impact – not necessarily much to say about it! I can tell you a short story from my hometown: In my neighborhood, such a mast was set up. The mast was already flawed when it was put up, but the entire population suddenly had great sleep problems, a part of it because the cell phone mast was set up. – To blame was a diligent neighbor who had told everyone how harmful it is to health. Meanwhile, this cell phone mast is in operation, and the population is sleeping very well there. There is no need to do some polemics here, but to take it seriously and to observe well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21376	Mr Keck is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21397	Mr President. High house! For the time being, I experience for the time being that important materials with which we are confronted with concerned and committed citizens of our country are quietly and secretly handled here in this House, “completed” with the reference to alleged incompetence or supposed too high a cost. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, with your majority, you ensure that all the debates on important issues are broken down again and again. An example of today's agenda is the petition 62 on free vaccination against hepatitis B for voluntary fire brigades. In this petition, nothing else is required but something that should be of course, namely the health protection of people who make their free time, their know-how available, also risk their well-being and their health free of charge to society as a whole. What is of course for the employees of the domestic rescue services, namely the free vaccination against hepatitis B, should also be possible for affected firemen in the sense of the petition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A simple amendment of the ASVG would allow this, ladies and gentlemen. The costs would be perceptible to the real practitioners instead of the overrun theories of far-off ministerial officials. Moreover, the opinion of the Committee on Vaccination of the Supreme Council of Sanity confirms that the implementation of the petition would not be inappropriate. He sees firemen as the first helpers and high-risk group like the staff of the Samaritan League and the Red Cross. In accidents, ladies and gentlemen, firemen do mining. Even in the presence of rescue services, they cooperate with them. Anyone who claims that the firemen would not be a danger to the shards of glass, brushed sheet, or the blood of the accident victims, who proves with his statement the highest ignorance of the valuable work done by these people every day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore ask you to: Ladies and gentlemen, finally stop your blockade with regard to firemen, and let your otherwise usual Sunday speeches in the field of fire brigades finally follow the necessary actions here in this House! It must not be a reserved vaccination because of which we risk the health of people to whom we are deeply grateful. Mr Klubobmann Molterer and Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you too reject this note and make sure that this petition is assigned to the Social and Health Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21454	Last word in this debate: Mrs Fleckl. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21476	Mr President. High house! In the Citizens' Initiative No. 26 for the preservation of the barracks, which has been mentioned very often today, is nothing but the fact that a region, a district, mandaters, mayors and mayors have joined forces over and against this wave of closure and also against this list of the barracks to be closed by the Federal Minister of State Platter; against a wave of closure which a region has met or would have already met in the past, which had already been hit by closures in the past: Post Offices, District Courts and Gender Army Posts. The population and 300 employees of a barracks had to learn from the media – from the media!, later Mr. Blatter confirmed the existence of this list after massive pressure – that once again a barracks should be closed not only in the Styria, but also in our district. I think Mr Fauland slept last spring. He has been in Parliament since July 2004 and has surely pursued the debate and the many questions to the Federal Minister, but now is pollimizing and playing with the fears of these people who had to learn from the media that it was about their jobs that this list regarding the closure of barracks would not have existed. Drive to Radkersburg, drive to Leibnitz, drive to Graz until 2009, and explain to the people that the closure of their barracks is pure invention! [[Abg. Murauer: Do you know that SPÖ agreed?]] The barracks Aigen with her soldiers has done excellent work in the past! The last winter and the disaster protection missions in the summer have shown – this was what the former head of state Klasnic was allowed to experience; if you don't know, maybe you ask her, she has enough time to give you information – how important our federal army, how important our barracks is in our region, when many hundred children were rescued, evacuated and taken to the valley by the German army from the planner Alm. Ask the former woman head of state Klasnic, she has experienced it herself! There our soldiers have demonstrated their competence and importance. The opinion of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has not yet stated that the barracks of Aigen is preserved forever and ever. The Alouette III expires in 2015. And I recommend to Mr Fauland the homepage of the Federal Ministry of Defence, on which this is clearly defined. I would like the Federal Minister to make a clear statement that Aigen will be a disaster prevention and helicopter training centre, and will not make any comments beyond 2010, because this will certainly not help people in Aigen and in our region. Stand up to the Federal Army, stand by our soldiers, and stand by our region! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21532	Mr Scheibner, Member of the European Parliament, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Speech time: 5 minutes; Group speaking time: 43 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21553	Mr President. There are contributions to debate that we really need to address. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Yes, dear friend, that's it, that's exactly what I'm talking about. A Social Democratic MP comes out here, pretends to be fighting for the federal army, and asks us – we, the government parties! – on to stand here for the federal army and for the soldiers. That's really – no, I'm saving myself the assessment now, but I'm going to be really emotional! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Especially you – you! – where your group, your partygoers in the federal states and in the municipalities, when it comes to carrying along unpleasant things, which happen once in the state defence, which also requires money and equipment, to land and air, do not allow any opportunity to go against precisely these principles! In every election campaign, you'll show us what we don't need! In every election campaign, you'll bring it! And then stand out here and act suddenly as if you had been the great federal army defender! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You yourself – yourself! – have agreed in the Federal Reform Commission that 40 percent of the properties of the Austrian federal army should be sold. There were unanimous decisions! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Federal Constitution states, Mrs Collaborative, that the countries are involved in the Garnizing of the Federal Army. In other words, you could also work with your country's captain in your region, in your federal state, to help you get the locations of the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Zusperrer!]] – Read the Federal Constitution! I also believe that, as regards the locations of the army, the barracks, the real estates, not only should be based on commercial arguments, as the federal army of course should also be an important one... – Here you become nervous, I understand that already, but I say to you: [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Here is the conviction – with you only the party policy, and that is the big difference between you and me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I, too, believe that not only after business considerations, but also that there should also be a barracks which is perhaps not necessarily necessary for security policy, because there is also a defence policy purpose, a labour market policy and an economic policy purpose! But then one must also be prepared to make these funds available, because it is not only possible for the federal army to bear everything – security, economic policy, labour market policy – but not to be willing to stand up for it, even in your constituencies. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to calculate the costs of safety against other things, for example, how many kindergartens one could finance for how many streets one could build, how many railways how many pensions one could secure. Do you also agree with us that the national defense budget should be raised and that you always stand up for the soldiers who guarantee our security with their lives and with their health, and do not make them the theme of incredible negative campaigns in election struggles! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This allows you to stand out – not with such speeches out here!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21649	Now the debate has a late bloom: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4 minutes Still speaking time of his group: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21680	He was right, your chairman, when he meant that you would rather wake up in person every single soldier in the early days. You have proved to us today that you have a special relationship with the federal army – that is also good – but then you should have used yourself a little more than the question of the distribution of funds in the federal army. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God!]] Because at the last meeting of the Security Council, in which the representatives of various arms holes were present and all of them have been very disheartened, because all the money flows into the acquisition of the Eurofighters, many other areas are neglected, you don't care about the renovation of the barracks, other areas that the army's equipment is in fact subordinate, just so that you can buy your Eurofighters to buy billions, a huge debt... – Don't make such a wiper movement! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They were Minister of Defense at the time! You would have been able to stand on your army feet and prevent the Eurofighters from being bought! But in the end, you were politically flat, and then the Eurofighters were bought! You know exactly how it happened at the time that it wasn't the best bidder that was manipulated that we were all the time... – Yes, that's what you have to listen to! [[Prolonged calls to the liberals:No, no, no!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have tried all the time to set up an investigative committee. The big deck party, which has now only become a small pick-up shop, is not ready to go there. This means that the Committee of Inquiry is still not set up. And then Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner – ex-defense minister – comes here and pretends to be the ideal board of directors of the German army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is the mass yolk of the two factions, which are obviously under-employed and want to be more acoustic in some way, but the matter itself has done nothing! [[Abg. Scheibner: At least you have become mint again!]] That is why what our speaker said was right: Finally, do something for the federal army! Don't let it go so far, and don't neglect it like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your whole concept of reform is also a smear, because you have not implemented anything of what the Bundesheerreforms Commission has proposed! You have not received any of our constructive proposals. – Only your favorite Eurofighter model; for this you are also willing to undergo political ruin. Okay, go down and take the Eurofighters with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21789	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 1267 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This sign is given by the majority. The report is therefore adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Achleitner, Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Weinzinger, colleagues and colleagues on a ban on the import of dog and cat skins and the creation of an international labelling system for skins in processed clothing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – The sign is given unanimously. The motion for a resolution is therefore unanimously adopted. (E 169.) [[22:00:05]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Members Dietmar Keck, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the holiday law 1976 and the employment contract law-adaptation law (744/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21844	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. Mr Keck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. His speaking time is 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21868	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to confront you with a practical example: Herbert P. feels like a family father. Even if it is not his physical child, he has been caring lovingly for the little Lisa, the daughter of his life partner for years. He never thought of adoption. Even if the real father didn't care about little Lisa, he didn't want to confuse her unnecessarily. At first everything seemed to work well, but then fate struck: The child became ill for a longer period of time, and he who has known the child since his second year of life loves and is educated must hope for a spontaneous vacation or even pretend a disease in order to be able to care for it, because the care leave law or the holiday law does not provide care for him in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also different: Two spouses live apart – that is already commonplace in Austria – and divorce comes. Consensual agreement is reached on the child’s common care. In real life it works wonderfully, the child lives alternately with the father or mother, it participates in the life of both parents with all the difficulties. It is reported to the mother – the parents see this as a formal act, but that it is more than just that, the two only notice in an emergency situation: Your child is seriously ill. The mother is impossible to accompany her child in this bad situation, the father is forbidden to care for, for he lives formally separated from the family, and the law provides for a common household, so he cannot care for his child. [[Abg. Steibl: What are you talking about? You voted against! That's amazing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These examples are not theoretical games. For about 350 000 families in Austria who do not correspond to the classical father-mother-child scheme, these facts, when hard on hard, are sad reality. For them, the right to care exemption of up to two weeks per year is only a theoretical play. Even if there is the possibility for the care of children suffering from severe illness, it remains an unfulfilled desire for them until now. [[Abg. Steibl: And how do you explain that the SPÖ voted against it?]] We did not make any change until the end of 2005 with a request from you in relation to the accompanying of children suffering from severe illness. We took in the life partners and the stepchildren at the time. I ask you: Why were they? You're not ready for any major correction at the time? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why don't you give the fathers and mothers a chance to care if they no longer live in the common household with their children after divorce? Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of our proposal is to end this disadvantage. Our proposal for change is a small proposal in itself, but with this change we can achieve a great deal. In order to eliminate injustices and, above all, to remove an unjust punishment for the children who are usually the most indebted to this family situation, I would ask you to cooperate in this project and to vote positively in the committees for this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21940	Mrs Franz is speaking next. 4 minutes speaking time. The Group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21962	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The application for amendment of the holiday law and the employment contract law-adaptation law of our SPÖ collegiates will now be debated. I would like to point out in advance that we in this Federal Government have, in particular, developed and implemented enormous social policy improvements. One of these is the change in family hospice. It brings an extension of the use of six months to nine months for the care of severely ill children, of election, care and stepchildren. No common household is needed for death support. During this period, workers are insured in health and pension insurance. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Speak about the request!]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's what we know.]] We are a family party, and it is about reducing human suffering and giving families the feeling of not being let down by the state. However, if you want to change the holiday law with Article I, this must be discussed. If the care of stepchildren and children of partners should also be included here, this is one thing which, of course, also concerns the social partners. It is important to clarify labour law and financial matters. That is why this proposal must be discussed with the social partners in advance, which has always been a good tactic that we have put forward. I think that if your colleagues in the Federal Council today had decided or not to delay the change regarding family hospice, we would not have to discuss it today. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it!]] I can't follow your statements if you claim to be family-political. We do something for the families, and what is the SPÖ doing? - She delays, she postpones. Is that social? - I mean, that's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22025	Mr Walch is the next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22046	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's like my previous speaker said: It would be better for you, Mr Keck, to withdraw this request, but for that your members of the Federal Council would read in detail what we have decided here before – but read correctly! – and not just polemize. Then we could talk about whether we can bring it back. That would be the right procedure, because I'm going into every bet: If we make another change in the Committee or here in the plenary session of the National Council, the Federal Council will vote against it again. We represent the interests of this group of people – but you are polemized! But we will discuss this in the Committee accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22080	Mr Oellinger is speaking next. Requested time: 3 minutes; 7 minutes for the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22101	Mr President. Mr Walch, with all due respect, but what was the other thing but a polemic in your speech? I agree that we are discussing this in the Committee, but that is of course the case. From the outset, the application is justified. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you reject him in the Federal Council?]] There is no reason at all to oppose it when it is called for to ensure equality of law. That is justified from the point of view. I agree that this should be discussed with the social partners – not a question – but this, ladies and gentlemen, should not prevent you from taking a position. Well, we are discussing this with the social partners, but you are also required and asked to say something. Obviously, you can't say anything about the content except the reference to labour and financial problems – and I would have liked to have explained this in more detail. In fact, one can only say that there is no contradiction with what Mr Keck called for at first reading. In this respect, one could be optimistic and believe that this can be decided relatively quickly. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have rejected it!]] But I notice the reactions that have happened by the way that you do not want to, and that would be a pity. Mr Walch, perhaps we are trying to do so in committee without polemics.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22151	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 744/A to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:09:12]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22189	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Cap, Mr Mag. Kogler on the establishment of an investigative committee on illegal trade with regard to sight marks. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22339	Mr Cap is speaking at a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22361	I do not think that the jokes you put on your lips are appropriate in view of the sadness of this matter, I tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - No, you have to answer for that. Since you are all powerful in reading, you will probably have registered tomorrow’s “Kurier ” and tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does “probable ” mean?]] - No, I certainly said, not likely. You will have the title in the “Kronen Zeitung”: ‘Court of State: ‘The Embassy in Lagos was a visa factory’. [[Wow-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The ex-consul stated as follows: “The message was disorganized,” he says. No technical equipment, no devices to detect document falsifications, too few personnel. Only in this way would the errors in the issuing of visas be explained.” In the ‘Kurier’ the title is: ‘A diplomatic ‘sausing’’. I mean, if you didn't notice: It's now the time when you're holding the ÖVP's foreign resort. [[Abg. Rädler: That was a booze before!]] Just to make you feel a little bit right. That was also the time of Benita Ferrero-Waldner. In any case, the “Kurier” writes: ‘A diplomatic ‘sausing’’. [[Abg. Rädler: Who was the ambassador there?]] Then the Secretary of State is quoted to the passports. She says: “I immediately saw that they were wrong.” But: ‘If the consul says I have to print visa, I’ll print.’ She printed. 100 per day. It seemed like it was in a factory. While Gerhard F. – that is the defendant – was the second man in the embassy (July 2003 to July 2004), 4891 applications were made positively. By 3000 more than during the period prior to the comparison.’ Now I'm telling you something: The interesting thing about this is that it has affected several messages. Whether this is Lagos, whether it is Kiev or Belgrade, the entire list of messages is shown here in the “Kurier”. Belgrade especially, there were ads to be found in the newspapers until recently. In the “Kurier” an organization is even quoted as being able to enter the Schengen area across Austria by 2 600 € grossly with a car bus and finished visa. But you still sit there and apparently still represent the thesis: These are single black sheep! – In the meantime, you have to ask yourself the question: Which messages in those regions did not deal with visas? In the meantime, you have to ask yourself the question: Why did the investigation work at the Visa Scandal in Germany only require that there have at all been steps to finally become active? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Keep She's cool! Then another Commission will be set up by the Foreign Office, which has only found it worth the effort to stop the destruction of these evidences, i.e. all of these false visas in September, although the information has already been made in writing and orally in 2001/2002. [[Abg. Grossruck: Didn't Ambassador Petritsch assume his responsibility?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: We've heard that for the last time!]] - No, I don't. Sure, you can also get used to the diplomatic soups. That's okay. [[Abg. Neudeck:... among the red ambassadors!]] You can say: Let's not discuss it anymore, we know that under the direction of an ÖVP minister there is a diplomatic soup! Don't bother us anymore! This attitude has already appeared to us as normal, we have become accustomed to it! The fact that there was a visa factory, we got used to it, and now we finally stop talking about it! We want to create our own reality, and we do not want to be confronted with the real reality! If you want to do displacement exercises, please, do it! If you do it until the election day, hopefully push away the defeat that you will suffer if you live happier with it! Maybe that's one of the reasons why many of you have so happy faces in here. It cannot have been the results of the elections. Nor can it have been the approval of the citizens, nor the entire scandals and scandals, which are now accumulating, from the Gehrer resort to the external resort, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Court of Auditors reports. If you can live happily with it, then it's okay. Then I am also in favour of making more television broadcasts so that your happy faces are transferred directly to the residences of the Austrians, namely, how happy you are that such suctions are possible – writes the “Kurier” – how happy you are, how much money is handled here. [[Abg. Grandruck: Hello!]] Mr. Großruck, you're not a sensitive person here in the round. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Don't blow up like that, but rather listen, because obviously you haven't really studied tomorrow's newspapers. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Großruck is very sensitive!]] Why are we so stubborn and want an investigation committee? – I'll tell you now why. We also justify this in our investigation order: This is to be made possible through the collection of oral and written information and by an insight into the files of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. I emphasize: By insight into the files! – Just no nervousness now, yes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The files are not yet available. But nervously, you can become if we really have insight into the files. [[Call the ÖVP: You can join the prosecutor's office...!]] If even such a reticent person as Peter Jankovitsch, former Foreign Minister, says that there have been gaps in control, then everyone who knows the diplomatic language knows what that means. That's a huge charge. We know the language of diplomats, we formulate a little different. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Josef Cap in particular!]] But he said this quite clearly: There have been gaps in supervision! I'd say it like this: Everyone who speaks with members of the Foreign Office knows that you have known this for years! There has been evidence of this for years now. For years, they have allowed the destruction of the files, and for years they have not done anything about it. This famous inspection mission was not a special but a more general one. Nothing has been done for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] – Is it not justified, Mr Fassleven, that sometime as a democratically elected Member should be asked the question: Why was nothing actually done for years? This is even pointed to the question of: Are just loud people around there, with stock, and have stopped somewhere, or was there a cover-up behind that? [[the speaker keeps both hands in mind]] The question of political responsibility and the question of how to deal with these things is raised. I'll tell you: It is entitled to ask that question. I therefore believe that an investigation committee is an absolute necessity to investigate with the legal possibilities of a committee of inquiry. Do you know what the bad thing about it is? – You have joined together as a “Schützt Ferrero!” group, but you have to join together slowly as well as a “Schützt Plassnik!” group. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] – Yes, Mr Neugebauer, this superlative laugh that you show here will also pass you away. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now we know!]] This laugh will freeze, then you will no longer get your mouth together. I'm looking forward to that. It is also to be questioned what the Foreign Minister has done in dealing with this scandal so far. I already have the suspicion that this is something like political cover-up that is going on here, but that's also this diplomatic corps spirit, which is supposed to play a role. And what you're actually doing is sitting out, diving through and seeing that somehow it's exhausted by itself. But it is not exhausted by itself! There's a new message all the time, there's new chandeliers, and then, if it's really on the table, so if you've pulled one of these many worms out of the foreign policy nose again, it's like saying: Well, if the light really shines now, then I admit it lights! [[The speaker points to the red flashing light at the speaker’s desk]] I'll tell you: Political responsibility cannot be defined. Our task will be to tell the Austrians how you behave here in this affair, similar to in other affairs. You can change that, especially you there. [[towards Freedomable Wise]] You can change that! You don't have to do everything they suggest from the ÖVP over there. Be a little self-employed! Just think about it, a few that can still remember the time when you asked for an investigation committee here in plenary almost every time, if anything was! [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you agree?]] Can you remember? – Yes, we have even made joint investigation committees. [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you once agree?]] I remember this very well. [[Abg. Scheibner: You never agreed!]] We decided on two committees of inquiry at the time. I remember very well. It was over the summer. [[Abg. Neudeck: July, August!]] It's been a while, but that's what we did. Don't be so nervous, emancipate! Go your own way! [[Abg. Neudeck: (the hands beating down) That's a way of your own?]] Come to us! Vote with us! Let us make a committee of inquiry and examine this matter thoroughly once! We are dealing with the legal possibilities of this committee of inquiry and that we are breaking this omertà, this wall of silence, and that we are finally able to carry out real information here. This would be appropriate in the sense of democracy, in the sense of cleanliness and also in the sense of political honesty. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where's the caster? Where's the coroner?]] Therefore, I suggest: Support Let us ask you to set up a committee of inquiry!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22694	Mr Murauer is next spoken. Legal speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22725	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Cap, you really are developing into the head of "Locker tongue", because in your previous speech, you once again introduced yourself to the Ministry of Defence, and you introduced to the Ministry of Defence that of course only manipulative is being manipulated, and just earlier you said that even in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the officials were basically involved with cover-up, manipulation and so on, and appealed to us: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: As the Schelm thinks, he is!]] Believe me, because in the newspapers today is this one and that other headline, and you can all read, ladies and gentlemen! And then Cap carried out what's in the newspapers. In this case, you, Dr. Cap, are in principle criminalizing all employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. – I say to you that it is individuals who have, of course, committed wrongs. They've been checked. [[Abg. Dr. Cap holds a edition of the “Kurier” with the title “A Diplomatic ‘Sauhope’”.]] But I stand behind all the employees who do their work in the foreign office, whether they are employed abroad or abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They put themselves here and said: Well, let's get used to the soups! So you can get used to a soup, that's so easy to say. A newspaper writes “Sauhaufen. ” This is the title of an article. I say that the situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not correspond to this heading, but quite the contrary. The Federal Minister has drawn the corresponding consequence in all the incidents that have been known. That is the truth, and you should take this into account! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Foreign Minister told you... [[Abg. Reheis: What kind of consequence? Zero! Cover!]] – Of course you don't. It's all right! My God, successes of a consequence or a control or a foreign policy measure, you do not hold out because the government parties can point out that we can also have great success outside of the country. I should like to remind you that it was Mrs Foreign Minister who brought us to a corresponding negotiation success – 24 : 1 – on the question of Turkey and represented the opinion of the Austrian population. Mr. Cap, you may have missed that. [[Abg. Gradwell: What does this have to do with the purchaseable visas?]] [[Abg. Reheis: Who was buying?]] It was none other than Mrs Foreign Minister who brought Austria a success worth €3.1 billion for rural areas in the EU budget negotiations. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] It was the Foreign Minister who also brought sensitive topics concerning events to Austria, such as the Islam Conference “Islam in a Pluralistic World”. She is also to be congratulated on this. This behaviour gives us the security and guarantee that the Foreign Minister, with her staff, will provide us with the necessary complete information, not only for the information, but also for the consequence that the Visa Commission has shown us. [[Abg. Reheis: What consequence?]] Although the chairman of the Visa Commission – no unknown person in the SPÖ – has confirmed that there is some gap in control, Jankovitsch has, as you know, because you too can read, Mr Cap – and you have certainly read it too – means that there is no criminal network within the Ministry. I emphasize: None! Did you read that, too? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He has not been allowed to investigate!]] That's what it's like. You just didn't say, because that's unpleasant, that would be something positive, and something that's positive isn't about your lips. Unfortunately, God is so according to your opposition understanding. However, the Federal Minister has not only made it clear that the consequences of further strengthening control, as recommended by the Visa Commission, that training be improved, that the four-eye principle is respected, and that further cooperation with the Federal Ministry of the Interior is continued to take account of the need for all that has been identified. Conclusion: The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs – and we can really see this with all the clarity – does everything to make the visa control system more misuseable. [[Abg. Oils: a new message every week!]] Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Helpless you are!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I can tell you that, of course, we are not going to give our approval to the creation of a committee of inquiry. I would like to inform the Federal Minister that we continue to wish her much success on her foreign policy path.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22910	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22932	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a fact – and for that we too – that there are many top ambassadors and many, many top employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it is exactly the present situation that is damaging all those who do really good work. That is, please, the reason why we want to clarify! [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's something else the cap said!]] No, Mr Cap has just said the same thing. In this respect, we also want to inform, as EU Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, then Foreign Minister, said in October, or confirmed that she was informed in May 2001 that visas are being sold at the Embassy in Belgrade. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who was Ambassador?]] What she did not say about it was that she had been informed in detail and with evidence. She only told us half the truth. In October, the judicial system expanded investigations and investigations, and at least control mechanism failures were detected. ==References== October – in order to work it out chronologically – the spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Astrid Harz, admitted that there are repeated accusations of corruption, but never a proof. In December, the judicial system had to stop the investigations because visa applications had already been destroyed after a year and therefore lacked evidence. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you hear from 2001 to 2005 over and over again that there are accusations of corruption, then you can't go here and have evidence say visa requests destroyed. It is precisely in this situation that you have to catch up and precisely examine these visa applications. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is no good if Foreign Minister Plassnik wants the Balkan states to act more strongly against the Visa Mafia. This is a way of cooperation, but it is at least as important and necessary, please, the Enlightenment, and there you cannot let visa applications be destroyed! Just one example of how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reacts: A week ago, there was a journalist's request to Mrs. Astrid Harz. The journalists wanted to know if there are other such cases. Mrs Harz's answer was no. A day later, the same journalists from the Korneuburg Procuratorate learned that a criminal act has been in place from Ankara since 2004. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A criminal act in a ministry is also known to a minister. That is why we want to make it clear that such headings as “A diplomatic “Sauhope”” during the Austrian EU Presidency, please – right now, during the EU Presidency of Austria! – not to be read. [[the speaker keeps an issue of the “Kurier” up to date]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what's going on!]] Is that what we want? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's your concern?]] This is a damage to Austria and to the Austrian diplomacy. Please don't be angry with me, but that's clear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this very reason, we want Austrian diplomacy to finally come out of this situation, we want to clarify. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Such a hypocrisy!]] We want to know what will be done so that such cases can no longer happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23059	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23090	Mr President. It's going on again! You just need to wait for what comes so much to “serious ” calls. Mr Cap, in his serious attitude to be taken very seriously by all of us, urged us to be serious on this important issue. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So please, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not yet heard much of this. [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's more often like that!]] He cheated a little on the happy faces of the government fractions, probably jealous. As we see again and again in the special promotions of the SPÖ from the spring of Gusenbauer and Cap, the faces in the SPÖ fraction are not so happy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Long faces!]] You also wonder why in such a foreign policy... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Out of concern for the Republic!]] – Of course, out of concern – but for the stock of the SPÖ fraction, because if you continue this way, the electoral day for you will not be a day when there will be happy faces in you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, that's what the right one is talking about!]] I ask myself, Mr Cap: Where are the foreign politicians in such important debates? Where is Mr. Arbitrator? – He is dissociating himself from such actions as we saw them before, because you are not only misusing the country’s security for election struggles, but now also taking the foreign policy for election struggles. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A miniature party speaks!]] [[Abg. You're saying that's what you're saying!]] This is really the background, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cap has raised our agreement and said: You've always called for committee of inquiry before. I can still remember what was always the answer at that time: After all, we wait for the court surveys and do not examine something in parallel! That's not possible, because what would we do to investigate? If you look at the protocols, you will know that we have very clearly differentiated between those cases in which there have been criminal charges, but which have not yet shown appropriate political backgrounds, and those cases where there have been clear political distortions, which have also been shown. There, of course, a committee of inquiry is necessary. You said that you had also approved two investigation committees in your generosity in the coalition at that time. Yes, what were the cases in which you fought against committee of inquiry for months? And then, because the pressure was too strong, you've been hit wide – for example, at the Lucona. I do not need to tell you what political developments there have been, which have led to criminal convictions. And there were some more cases. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Two Prime Minister Banks!]] But to compare this with the present case shows how seriously you take this whole matter. Perhaps you will also go ahead with the motto “Hold the thief!” because if you are just addressing the message of Belgrade and saying that there is a responsibility from the political level, from the ministry, I ask: What responsibility would one not only have to construct, but also to point out here – for example, in the service supervision, with the immediate officers of these officials in the embassy? And who is that? That can only be the ambassador. And who was the ambassador at that time? – Your top candidate for the National Council election, your Vienna top candidate, Mr Petritsch, was then ambassador. [[He-Rufe with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Incredible! There's no such thing as that!]] How does it look with responsibility? We didn't hear anything, because that's something else. We always measure in the SPÖ with two dimensions. This is also true of how to deal with the political opponent: If you want to psychiatriate him, if you want to lock him up, it's not that bad – if it comes from the SPÖ. If other political groups do, that is a threat to democracy. And so is it in these cases: What helps us, that's all right, that's what's wrong with the others, we're accusing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: If we were to decide on a committee of inquiry, what would we do to investigate? Which documents? [[Abg.: ( towards SPÖ) Now it doesn't look good!]] The criminal surveys have not even been completed. And you've said it yourself, there's always new suspicions coming. You have to wait for the volume of this story. Which witnesses would you like to question? Perhaps Mr Petritsch? There it is already obvious. Maybe what we don't want to hope for, there are other things. I told you last time: We are not in principle opposed to a committee of inquiry, but we want this matter to be clarified in full without taking Austria's foreign policy as an electoral tool. I tell you, it also bothers me that now – in good Viennese – some things come to the public. We also demand a faster, more dynamic reconnaissance of all these suspicions. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Where do you demand this? Where?]] There must also be supervision in the department and measures to improve control. However, ladies and gentlemen, as long as the criminal surveys are not completed and until now there is no reference to political responsibility, as long as a committee of inquiry cannot be decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23269	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23291	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe you can really see the visa affair a little more relaxed and look where the real problem is right now. Perhaps it is not so much the question of continued coverage in the ministry, but something seems to be wrong. If you just stick to a single culprit theory and you're actually surrounded by loud individual perpetrators in this foreign policy place, you'd have to get a light sometime. But now I do not just want to put an evil intention, because in this case it even seems to me to be a shot of naïveness in the game. Let's talk about it. There, where it becomes a little more serious in the context – that is the thing that has already been addressed – is that it has still not been concluded for too long, or at least far too long, with practice, that the underlying files – which are anyway not many, but anyway – are simply by practice and because it has always been that way just to be destroyed by regulation. I think that's absurd. That's an absurd process, and that's what makes me suspect again. I admit that there may have been, ever since Black Blue resided, ruled, and in some resorts has been driving their inconsistencies, more important committees of inquiry than these. You could talk about it. But if you put the puzzle stones together here too, there is already a need for an investigation. And it's not gonna help us. It's always the same thing: Mr Scheibner explains, yes, once the criminal courts, and then, and anyway...! What does this have to do with the political responsibility to be clarified here? Of course, you can ask the question: Is there any political failure at all? And you can discuss this away. I mean, the questions have not been finally answered. We need this committee to do this. The questions are now on the table, even if you say the argument is repeated. However, the argument is repeated per committee of inquiry that the foreign minister or her predecessor, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, in different ways and How it has been informed and to this day it is not recognizable what has happened there for years. It's probably not much, because otherwise it wouldn't have been able to go on. And that's the problem. But I agree with you that there might be more spectacular occasions for investigative committees. The same way, as you will soon find no more messages in a particular area of Europe, where you would have to assume that it was probably so that there was also a growing trade in visas, so where you actually have to look at where nothing is in the arrogance, so it is similar with the resorts in the Federal Government. If we only take today's day: Ministry of Finance, Gehrer-Seipel-Phenomen Problem, Social Ministry with the e-card – everything really matured for an investigation in an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The e-card is in the health ministry!]] – Also in the Ministry of Health, this has changed sometime. I'll give you the right. So there's another ministry to do. State Ministry of Defense – already know. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does “he already know” mean?]] Interior ministry – top cowardry. And now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we are quite... You may not want to continue the debate with me, that I believe, as before, that there is an urgent suspicion of the Eurofighter deal. And it really remains the question which ministry is not yet in the drawing place in which investigative committee events were worthy. Let's count them up. You're gonna get on it, it's the minority. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Please go! Which one? I'm interested now!]] You can object, this is a matter of opposition, where it is assessed or not. It's okay. But I'm telling you: It is not only the question of political orientation, which may have survived, which this black-blue or my own black-orange Federal Government is now driving out to the open sea, where it has slid to it without navigation, but it is actually also the decay in many areas, and this list of necessary investigation committees is the basis for this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I will make you the following offer: Let us do it as required by law in the Federal Republic of Germany. That is because the parliamentary minority can set up a committee of inquiry. In this list of events, the opposition may agree on one or two, although, in our view, there are six to eight investigative operations. Let's do this in this legislative period! But I'm afraid you're gonna miss the Courage. You used to have more courage.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23366	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Cap, Mr Kogler, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (Referring to the fact that Members Dr. Gusenbauer and Schieder are not present) Gusenbauer, Schieder: They are all against it!]] – The request does not find a majority in the House and is therefore rejected. [[22:40:54]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23414	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on Amendment 460/A (E) by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues on the grant of a uniform heating aid, a period of up to 28. ==References== [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he's not there!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's not here!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (Concerning that Abg. Dr. Matznetter on the square of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer stands) Mr. Gusenbauer, however, has changed considerably!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of setting deadlines to give a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. Therefore, the application was not accepted. [[22:42:02]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-01-25-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00135_d7e23488	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 765/A to 781/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3816/J to 3854/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.42 a.m. – that is now, following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
