ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e1765	I'll open the 138. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 137. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Deputies Dr. Rasinger, Riener, Mag. Darabos, Hagenhofer, Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Rada, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mandak, Rosary and Mag. Stoisits. [[12:02:22]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e1799	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2000	Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, have called for urgent consideration to be given to the self-employed proposal 786/A (E) by Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen on record unemployment in Austria. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2018	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of this House are Magistrate. Mr Molterer, ladies and gentlemen, asked the Transport Committee to report to the Federal Council on its opposition of 9. 9 February 2006 against the decision of the National Council on 9 February 2006 FSG-Novelle, 1302 of the supplements, a period of until 24. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. In view of the fact that a urgent request was requested for today's meeting, the brief debate will take place following the examination of the urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. – The call for urgent request will take place at 3 p.m. In addition, before entering the agenda, I announce that a request and request from Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, friends and friends is available for deadlines, namely the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 717/A (E) concerning national measures to protect against genetically modified organisms – GMOs a period of time up to 27. ==References== At the same time, the Members who have been signed call for a brief debate on this request. As we are already having a short debate, that is to say, the request for a deadline. May. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. This request for debate is not accepted by the board, but this deadline proposal will be put to the vote without debate, after the vote on the first request for a deadline. I'll interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2086	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:18]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Friedrich Ververtnich, colleagues on record unemployment in Austria (786/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2122	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 786/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2454	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I am aware that the following Rules of Procedure have been adopted in the Presidential Conference for the period from 15 to 17 o'clock, which is transmitted by the ORF: The applicant for the reasons of the urgent request 20 minutes, a member of the government also 20 minutes, then one speech per group of eight minutes each, then another member of the government with ten minutes, then one speech per group of five minutes each, and one word per group of three minutes each. The next speaker of the Group can be used by a speaker who is not in use in the television era. However, increasing the number of speakers is not possible. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. No word messages are called for business treatment during the time of television transmission. I now give the floor to Mr Deputy as an applicant for the urgent request. His speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2494	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Yeah, it's true: Millions of people will end their working day in a few hours, but it is equally true that millions of people in Europe have tried again today in vain to get work, and at the end of the day they need not be found. And that, I believe, is enough reason to convene a special meeting and, above all, to bring about a change of course in politics in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In recent days, statistics have again shown the situation on the labour market. It is true that 380 000 people are currently looking for work in Austria. It's very crucial to note... – Don't say that's wrong! [[Abg. Ellwall: That's wrong!]] It is at the end of January 380 000 people looking for work – no less! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do not forget, however, that it is not only the 380 000 but also their families that carry this fate! And so that this becomes even more plastic, because these numbers are often not understood at all: All Vorarlberg, more than all Vorarlberg without employment! - Only by knowing what we're talking about. And if you address the trainings: 53 000 people are currently seeking a better qualification in training. For example, there would be quite a Villach for training. Only by understanding what it is really all about. 71,000 people under 25, people who have put the school behind them, who have been told, you need to continue your education so that you can stand in working life, then have to know that they are not really needed. 71,000 people – that would be the total population of Wels and Stockerau. We must not forget those people who often experience enough on the labour market today that they are too old for work and are being pushed into retirement. At present, it is 15 000 who are applying for a pension. This would be the population of Kufstein who would apply for pensions. And those who know the history of pension applications know very well that around two thirds of these applications are rejected and these people are available on the labour market again. We are therefore talking about a very large number of people in our country who expect a policy different from the constant indication, in Europe it is nevertheless much better and so bad we are not at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would be too short to take account of unemployment statistics. Let us look at the labour market in detail! More than one million people are currently working in so-called atypical employment conditions. – No trade union statistics, no AMS statistics, but statistics from Statistics Austria. 148 000 of these work less than 12 hours a week in these employment conditions. You can go to the employment office. I was at the labour market service in Dresdenstraße early today to see which places are offered. Additional activities: 5,35 € to 5,80 € per hour. This is €890 a month in full-time employment – far away from what we all want together, namely €1 000 minimum income for full-time work. This is what we need in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am very much in favour of the unions making a corresponding wage policy, and they do. But I should also like to say one thing clearly and clearly, Mr Amon: You must not forget what this government has imposed on workers since the year 2000. [[Call to the liberals: Where?]] You must not forget that when you look at it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must also be aware of what that means, namely, a million people in atypical working conditions. What impact does this have on social systems? . We are currently debating how we can finance the social system. The fact is that, if I take 2000 as a scale, by 2005, the increase in the number of part-time workers and the increased loss of full-time jobs alone will result in a 15 million € loss of income from accident insurance. € 15 million in loss of revenue! I believe that it is more necessary than ever that we discuss not only unemployment but also the question of what employment we have in the country, and above all full-time work more than ever. Because the Wifo says clearly and clearly: The increase in employment in recent years, for which you are responsible, is mainly due to part-time work and not to full-time work, my dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that should also be considered. Women – mostly in part-time employment; of five women, two are part-time. A man of 17 is part-time employed. Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat said: If you pay less, you can't expect a maximum pension – that's part of the freedom of choice. Each woman can voluntarily pay higher contributions to pension insurance so that she will receive more pension later. – 15. ==References== That is not part of the freedom of choice for us! Unfortunately, this is a reality for many people who do not have the money to pay more pension contributions and would like to have full-time jobs. And that must be the goal of our policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Qualification, full-time offers and, above all, childcare facilities – this is what it is all about. This is not only what we say about social democrats or trade unionists, but also the European Commission in its country report on Austria when it comes to the Lisbon objectives. The calculation of unemployment from the statistics does not bring any work. What we need is new work, especially on the offer side. There is often enough of the economy claim that Austria is not flexible enough. Also here is written in the main book: Two thirds of workers do not work equally much each week, not with the same beginning and end. Here we are at the forefront of the European Union. So it's flexible to work in Austria, because otherwise it wouldn't be that we can actually work around the clock in our country. Almost half has no fixed start of working time and no fixed end of working time. And every fourth works regularly on Saturday, every seventh regularly on Sunday. I would like to address a new word of fashion from the European Union, namely flexurity. Flexurity, what does that mean? – Flexibility and safety. I wonder, What are the possibilities for those 200,000 who, for example, have less than a full - time job, who are there or there flexible in the working world, to actually take advantage of flexurity? Do you think that the 150 employees in the Hohenau sugar factory, who were flexible at the beet harvest, in the campaign, which also had a safe, healthy workplace, fall on fertile ground when talking about flexurity with them? Flexurity without opportunities: this is a wrong path in the European Union! We need flexibility and opportunities, opportunities for work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Let us see how the labour market has developed! If it was still in 2000 that – in the annual average – six seekers came to an open position, then at the end of the previous year we had the situation that twelve seekers came to an open position. Twelve job seekers in an open position, ladies and gentlemen. It is also interesting to see in detail how many open positions with which qualifications are offered. There are currently about 23,800 open jobs, according to the statistics of the AMS of late January 2006. With almost 50 percent of these jobs, the employer does not require more than compulsory education, and 80 percent of these jobs in total do not require more than compulsory education or teaching! And there is always talk of higher qualification and more offers?- Oh, my God! Just remember that today more than 5,000 young people are looking for an apprenticeship. And if you look at the job vacancies of the AMS – you can get them yourself at any time – you have to find that more than 90 percent of the job vacancies are available for apprenticeships only from the summer of next year. So it won't be enough to say: We need more training, but it is about offering these opportunities first. What about the people who are unemployed? – Example: a woman, 45 years old, diploma marketing/sales manager – by the way successfully learned in a WIFI course – multinational business connections. This woman has been unemployed since 2003. 100 applications sent them; all without results. Or how is a shoe worker who is 46 years old working in a company for more than 28 years, but who has locked up the shoe company? – [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This shoe worker has been unemployed since 2003! Since 2003! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Let's look at the job vacancies – I repeat: You can get them at any time at the labour market service – and we see what is required, for example, by an employee in printing: It must be able to speak “accent-free German” and use the “paper cutting machine”. – For me, this is nothing but a hidden indication that you do not want to employ foreigners. That is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. Another job offer, which requires the printer to have Russian and Slovak skills, and then it goes on to say: Overtime performance is expected; Remuneration according to the collective contract. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Look at the job vacancies – and then we'll talk about it! I did that anyway, not from jux and tollery, nor from writing it down. I am, as it were, a gas and water pipeline installer from my original profession. I entered my data into the computer today. Apart from that, it would be interesting to know whether I would be taken at all in my age. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – In any event, I have already shown that the majority of you would not be available on the labour market either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So let's see what the job for a gas and water pipeline installer looks like: 100 job openings. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Wait a minute, listen! – Two open positions in Vienna, four in Tyrol, Styria and Lower Austria – and 94 of them in the Federal Republic of Germany! This is the Austrian labour market, which you so defend from the coalition parties! [[Abg. Neudeck: Pendler!]] I would like to show you the situation in another example. The Federal Railway announces, on the one hand, that the competent minister is not exactly inactive in this direction – to want to reduce 9,000 employees. – On the other hand, there are so beautiful ÖBB listings, on which says: We need train attendants, train managers, drivers, TU graduates – and so on. However, it is also necessary to read the accompanying text: The aim of this measure is – as said: 9,000 people are supposed to be sent to the desert, so to speak, in the context of the qualification offensive against “overage of the company”. From 35 years old, ladies and gentlemen, you are too old for the Bundesbahn! And that would not mean most of those sitting in the hall at the Bundesbahn! – This is a labour market policy that does not lead to the desired success! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We must bring young and old men and women into employment! That must be the goal of politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] But if we clearly show this situation, what do we hear? – That’s “listening”! Stop it at last! I quote: Higher unemployment is not a signal of economic policy. We should not have an unnecessary dramatization of the 175 000 unemployed in this country. – This was said in 2001 by Federal Minister Bartenstein. Quotation from 2002: The valley is reached. The rise in unemployment is slowed down. Thank God is a slightly more positive image; the situation is relaxed. – So Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Federal Minister Bartenstein in 2002. Quote from 2003: The increase in unemployment is getting flatter. January 2005 – I quote –: Bartenstein is pleased with the reform of the Federal Government's actions, which already show results. Federal Chancellor's key to this: The comparison makes sure and calm! In the summer of 2005, the social spokesperson of ÖVP, Walter Tancsits, said that the situation on the labour market was by no means dramatic. – By the way, this is Walter Tancsits, who once recommended people who are employed in Austro Control, for example, they may act as sailing instructors at the Attersee if they have no more employment. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The consequences of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: Economic growth remains below, and it is clearly below the value of the late 1990s! Statistically proven and evidenced by the Wifo! As far as GDP is concerned, Austria has also fallen back. Austria is one of the eight countries of the European Union whose value has deteriorated! The real wages stagnate: a consequence of the tax charges! – And to the tax reform that you repeatedly mention: Let us bear in mind who actually helped this tax reform. [[Abg. Grill: The human being!]] Not with the slightest income! And that is why we demand that the negative tax be increased from € 110 to € 220, because there is a lack of purchasing power for domestic demand in our country. The growth of private consumption today is significantly lower than in 1999. In the years 1996 to 2000, there were increases by 2.7 percent per anno; in the years 2000 to 2005 only 1.36 percent per anno. The growth in enterprise investment also declined. President Leitl and the Chamber of Commerce as a whole have written you this often enough in the main book, and today you can read it again in a newspaper: It is about real investment – and not about promoting financial investments if you want to make policy for the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The result, ladies and gentlemen, Since 2001, Austria has been clearly below the EU average in terms of employment growth! 17 EU countries have a declining unemployment; we are increasing – regrettably! – the unemployment continues. In our country there are already 1 million people whose income is below the poverty limit of € 785 per month. These people must pay our special attention! It is not just statistical evidence, it is a work against it, that is the very crucial point. There needs to be a change of course! The 285 million € offensive of last year, to which we all of course said yes, is only the one side of the medal. If we do not succeed in offering jobs, then the labour market policy training offensive is not enough! In the end of 2006 we will have better-trained unemployed, but no employment! – There must be a change of course in politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: There must be a change of course! I believe that our Presidency should also be used, for example, to promote a growth policy. This calls for the Wifo, but it also demands the entrepreneurs. I also believe that it is important in this context, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that we should not be until 30. A letter to Brussels on transitional periods was sent in April 2006, but it is already sending this letter. We should not promote tax dumping in Europe in our own country, but we should ask ourselves the question: How do we finance Europe, and what do we finance Europe for? The EU budget is not in line with the Lisbon objectives, and I therefore believe it is important to do something in this sector. It is also about the Services Directive: not in the sense of being opposed, but a better service directive, that is what it is all about. Therefore, I am glad that the Chamber of Commerce, together with us, the ÖGB, has recently sent a letter to all EU Members to clarify that it is also a matter of law enforcement. We don't want the same condition as on Austria's roads that someone with 160 km/h “does” on the highway and breaks or doesn't get it – or does not get it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As a result of the experience of the subcontractors in Austria, we want legal certainty for the many employees – and for the employers in Austria who behave correctly. This should not be postponed to the long-term, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need investment in infrastructure. I repeat and remember the 150 employees in the Hohenau sugar factory: How do they continue what the infrastructure is going on? – On the one side of the Danube there is a connection via the A4 and on the opposite side there is a transport concept, but on the other you have not yet come. I believe that creating better links for these people is a very crucial point. The same applies to public investment. Who prevents us from ending up at the end of the house at the broadband investment, but also from going to the depths accordingly? – Or think about thermal insulation. There's enough to do. You have our request, it is explained in the main points. What we need is a change of course! The electorate will soon have an opportunity to do so. [[Abg. Wattaul: Should we make more debts?]] We do not need beautiful speeches, we need work for the people of our country – this is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2789	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time is agreed by 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e2811	High house! First of all, some... – Yes, this will be difficult insofar as you may need to hear some messages that you will not like: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's gonna be hard!]] I can tell you some good news! At the time when you hold a special meeting, which I thank you for allowing us to discuss an important issue, there will be a new job for 2,000 unemployed people today. 400 of them were provided by the labour market service. Thank you for this good news, dear labour market service! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr President, I was actually very excited about what you are going to say: in addition to the analysis, which will be absolutely to be met from the figures – not from all, on which I will come back – quite together. We have employment records, and at the same time we have unemployment records. Now the question is: What do we do about it? – I would have expected two new ideas to come from the president of the Trade Union Confederation and well-known Social Democratic Members. We really are there for all ideas, please! We are in favour of all the ideas, Mr President of the Council, but we should then discuss them objectively. I'll be right back. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] First point, for example: You require € 290 million for a labour market programme. – We have decided together! You and the Economic and Social Committee, together with the Economic and Social Committee, have unanimously decided with us every single measure for the employment of 20 000 or 30 000 young people, as you have in your programme! You have decided that we will make qualifications for older people. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: It's all too little!]] They have agreed with us that we will make a special program for the re-primary women after the baby break, and that we will give everyone the chance to reclaim a course or a compulsory school degree. 300 million € are available for this purpose. But we wouldn't have needed a special meeting to do this, because: This was decided unanimously by the National Council in autumn at third reading! Therefore: A new idea isn't there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or take the demand, the right demand for research and development. Demand for perfection She – by the way, with us, and here is the Research Minister, Vice Chancellor Gorbach... – Yes, of course! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Deputy Chancellor Gorbach, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Education, has created an increase in research expenditure from €3.7 billion in 1999 to € 5.7 billion in this year! This is precisely the fulfillment of the proposals you have now made, Mr President of the Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will do the test on your real understanding of research in the coming weeks and months when it comes to deciding an Austrian Institute of Technology. The Commission will be here next week – I would like to say this clearly: already next week! – take a decision for a European Institute of Technology. Afterwards, the decision will be taken at the European Council in spring – hopefully it will be a positive decision – that we want to do so. And then the question arises whether we are there. We are willing to participate in this network at this centre, and I believe we have offered a very, very good project with well-known scientists in Vienna-Klosterneuburg. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Not with...!]] There is now a chance to show whether you think it is serious, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We currently have the highest growth rate in research investment. Austria has now advanced among the top five research countries in the European Union. Today, we have degenerated a very delicate subject that has made us all together, namely in relation to the medical students. You know that, as a result of a judgment of the European Court of Justice, German students came here, so to speak, and the Austrian medical universities “swallowed”. After a wealth of negotiations with our neighbouring countries, especially Germany, we have welcomed this solution, which we are now presenting – and also after negotiations with the Commission – and we will now propose it to you, we have chosen a model, which means that we increase the number of places of study by 20 percent and thus – the highest proportion of foreigners in the whole European Union, namely 25 percent! – give the same number of Austrian students the opportunity to take a medical course, as was the case in the past. – There is also a sample for you now, whether you are going along such a positive path for our young people, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You propose a lot in your ten-point programme; you don't have to argue about it at all. If there are good ideas: welcome to us on the government bank or in the majority groups! They propose more investment in infrastructure, and that is perfectly correct. Since I came to the government as Minister of Economic Affairs 16 years ago, I have advocated that we do so, but I have not always found an understanding of this when, for example, the question of links to Eastern Europe has been raised, but today, I believe, there is agreement across all the borders of the party. At the time – in 1999, when a Social Democratic Transport Minister, Finance Minister and Federal Chancellor had the say – €1.9 billion was invested in the infrastructure. – Today it is 70 percent more: € 3.3 billion a year – responsibility: Hubert Gorbach, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as this area is concerned, Mr President, I really have to correct you, because your paper contains a few figures and is simply not correct. They demonstrate and criticize that, for example, we do not even reach half of the EU section in the investment rate of 1.1 percent. You may have the right statistically, but you have to add the following: the ÖBB, the Federal Property Company and the ASFINAG, all of which are in the state's 100% ownership and, of course, make construction, road construction and railway investments for us! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you do, you see: Nothing's changed. Then we are 2.5 percent and exactly in the EU's cut, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we have actually done what you expect here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another point is that I really want to invite you to stop with the fairy tale of the 50 strains. [[Call the SPÖ:No fairy tale!]] If we had the same tax rate as at the time when Viktor Klima were Federal Chancellor and Rudolf Edlinger Finance Minister, we would be at a tax rate of 43.7 percent today. – In reality, however, today we are 40.7 percent lower, i.e. 3 percentage points lower. And do you know how high the difference is? – The difference is saying and writing €7 billion! These are two strong tax reforms, which are discharges that have been granted to Austrian taxpayers! That is the truth, and that is what people should hear on television! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the same way, I wonder why you, as the social partners – and you have a first-class apparatus at your disposal – allow the following point to be added to the request: We fell back at the wages at the purchasing power. – You should know better, Mr President of the Council! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] I am now simply producing an objective source, that is EUROSTAT; EUROSTAT is inexplicable. According to EUROSTAT, in 1999, the Austrians had an average purchasing power per capita of €23 500. – Today we are at 30,600 €, so this is an increase by a quarter, ladies and gentlemen! It's really not bad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Austria is one of the richest countries in Europe. Why do you want to talk small about your success as a union president, Mr Ververtnich?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Austria is one of the strongest, one of the most economically successful, one of the most social countries in the European Union! We can be proud of this Austrian model, in which the social partners ultimately show responsibility for wages and salaries! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the example of Finland and Sweden is repeatedly referred to by the Social Democrats – absolutely rightly in many areas: Let's take a look at exactly where the Sweden and the Finns, who always praise you as a model from the SPÖ, are better than Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Where is Austria better?]] Yes, Sweden and Finland are better in research; in this respect they are even higher than Austria, although we are approaching with huge steps of a 2.5 percent research rate. The Finns are already over 4 per cent; the Sweden is over 3 per cent. Great! – And we will work hard to achieve that. Yes, the Finns and the Sweden are better in the budget. You are doing what you are constantly criticising by the SPÖ, namely solid state finances. We in Austria are also very good on the road, but not quite as good as the Finns and the Sweden. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So, what model should we take as an example? But where are the Finns and the Sweden not so good? – For example, they are not quite as good in terms of purchasing power. What the purchasing power reaches, Austria – per year and per capita – is 500 € above that of the Sweden and around 1,600 € above that of the Finns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Austria is better with regard to exports: We have an export rate of 41 percent – the Sweden and the Finns respectively of 28 percent. We have increased our exports by 50 percent, in the time this Federal Government is in office, since 2000. This is a tremendous success! – In this context: thanks to all export companies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Take also the most important issue – which concerns us today – which is the labour market situation: Austria has an unemployment rate of 5.2 per cent, Sweden 6.3 per cent and Finland 8.4 per cent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As far as youth unemployment is concerned: Austria 10 percent, Sweden 16 percent, Finland 20 percent. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I am saying that so that you can appreciate a little bit what is happening in Austria. With us, 100 jobs are being created every day: by small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I expect you to say a thank you to the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular that they always call on this “job machine” for us. The fact that we are giving them such relief is of course a matter of course. As far as the number of business start-ups is concerned, it is also very interesting to see the difference: In 1999, there were 22,000 business start-ups in Austria, so young entrepreneurs – and today we are 32 percent, an increase of 44 percent! That means that this is already a huge thing, something that has gone well. If you say from the SPÖ that we are not good enough in social policy, in the fight against poverty, I also call you a few figures, and I would like to say straight away that I agree, of course, that an increase in purchasing power and the fight against poverty are very important. In this respect, however, we hold back every comparison, I say immediately. Since 2000, the compensation allowance for minimum pensioners has been increased by €1 400 per year; it is now €1 400 more than in 1999! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So this is an increase of 17 percent. Today, as far as the families are concerned, we are 3 300 € higher per year than in 1999: an increase of 30 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] From 2005, we increased the pension by 2.5 percent, increasing the minimum pension by 4 percent. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why I say quite openly to you: As far as the social “temperature ” in our country is concerned, we hold back every comparison! We in Austria have the third highest minimum pension throughout Europe! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria has a social market economy: We are unheard of by the economic base and social cohesion. As proof of this, you can see in the statistics. The social ratio has been increased – in my responsibility as Federal Chancellor – from 28.4 percent to 29.4 percent since 2000. So it has not become colder in our country, but warmer it has become, and social cohesion works! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the following also: If you like to hit the Federal Government and federal policy, I will tell you that we have increased pensions for pensioners with the smallest income by 4 percent this year alone. In Vienna, for example, your comrades have just increased social assistance by €4 by not even 1 percent! That means: Who makes social policy? And who makes stress? – Vienna was now in the process of increasing tariffs for electricity, gas, water and waste. We have lowered, we have strengthened the purchasing power! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The purchasing power will, after all, increase by 2.8 percent next year, thanks to the social partners and the financial basis we have laid. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to do more, that's clear. Therefore, any support for small and medium-sized enterprises; any support for one who has an idea to offer and create jobs – he will find an ally in us! But one thing I say to you quite frankly: It would be a shame if you did not use today's special meeting to bring in some new ideas, such as the Blum-Bonus, the Elite University, the research offensive, the infrastructure, social measures, the labour market qualification programme. Welcome to the Idea Competition!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3126	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. 8.5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3164	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Bundeskanzler's speech, many people ask themselves in front of the television screens and many here in the Hohe Haus Why is there 380 000 jobseekers in Austria, if everything is as perfect as Mr Bundeskanzler would like to imagine? – The truth is: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There are 380 000 jobseekers in Austria, because what the Federal Chancellor has said does not correspond to the truth and not to the reality of life of the people in our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are many who cannot distinguish between gross and net. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, Gusenbauer!]] But that the Federal Chancellor also belongs to it is embarrassing. If you are talking about the fact that the purchasing power of wages has increased by 25 percent over the last five years, but no one in Austria feels this, then this has one simple reason: That's the gross increase! Do you know what net came out? - Nothing! The burden policy of your Federal Government has re-eated all gross wage increases! This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To talk about the fact that everything would have been so wonderful and would have no incentive at all to discuss here in the House in the light of a situation in which we have the highest unemployment and the highest youth unemployment in the entire history of the Second Republic: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this is? – An insult to all those people who are affected by the fate of unemployment! This is not worthy of a German chancellor, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Speaking of the fact that in Austria social contributions would have increased and thus Austria would have become social in recent years, ladies and gentlemen: [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Do you know why social expenditure has increased? – Because today we have more than 70 000 people who are unemployed and for whom we pay unemployment support! Austria has not become social, “unemployed” has become Austria! And we all have the burden to bear. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You, Federal Chancellor, stand here and say: Wonderful, everything is solved, new jobs are created every day! – Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are already dealing with statistics, you will notice that today the wage rate is about as high as six years ago – and that is already positive – although more people are in employment. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There Vienna has the highest unemployment!]] What's the background? – That many people today earn less for their work, because there are fewer people who have full-time employment. How did President Vergestnich say correctly? – Most of the growth in jobs is atypical employment and part-time employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the fate of this employment relationship is primarily female. We want the people who are willing to work hard and hard in our country to get jobs from whose income they can live. For it is not only about work, it is also about income, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you talk about the tax reform and say that “two rich tax reforms” would lie between these – obscene – numerical comparisons you mentioned to us. – Of the tax reforms you have made, the vast majority of the population has had nothing. [[Abg. Grandruck: I don't know!]] They worry about those who don't need to worry. It's nice if you're a profitable big business, but it's worth more than € 1 billion through the tax reform and the small and medium-sized incomes on average € 11 or nothing at all, that has nothing to do with social justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do you know why your announcements sound so hollow? – Because people know what you're saying and what the reality of life is. I'm just saying this to a few examples, you mentioned a few again today. [[Abg. Hornek: Austria has earned something better!]] You said before the last election that everyone in Austria should get 1 000 € minimum wage. – What is true? 20 percent of employees have less than € 1,000 per month. You said you were going to fight poverty. – The reality is that the number of people in acute poverty is 460 000 and the number of people at risk of poverty is more than one million. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, said before the last election, through the tax reform, each Austrian receives €1,000 more a year. [[Abg. Wattaul: No! That has...!]] – The reality is that most €11 get and a million people get nothing at all. You said before the last election that the pensions are secured, there is no need for a new pension reform. [[Abg. Grandruck: Now they're secured!]] – The truth is, your reforms on average reduced pensions by 22 percent. And you said before the last election that the Eurofighters cost us taxpayers no euro. – The truth is that we have to pay every euro ourselves. With this policy of disbelief one cannot gain the trust of the population, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our economy must promote social justice and social equality. We demand responsibility for people, but we also demand that people perceive the opportunities and opportunities we offer them. That is why this is a shared responsibility between those concerned and those who are politically responsible. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Amon.]] I'll tell you: Our great goal will be to eliminate youth unemployment in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Your only goal is to become Federal Chancellor! We'll stop that!]] This is the most important goal – if not this government, then a socially democratically-led next government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will provide with an apprenticeship fund those apprenticeships you promise. We will ensure with more teachers a better quality of education that you have not achieved to this day. [[Abg. Wheeler: When? When?]] And we will ensure conditions at the universities that do not have to lead to monthly Husch-Fusch measures, as you pre-examination them, but rather create a security of training for the Austrian youth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a threat!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a dangerous threat!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The ten-point request of the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats provides a series of basic principles for you to be finally constructive and not to be fundamentally opposed to any individual proposal of the opposition. [[Abg. Wattaul: We've already done that!]] The truth is that the opposition in this Parliament is very often ready if you propose something reasonable to go along with. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] However, they reject any still so reasonable proposal of the opposition. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: closing!]] That is why it is time not only for the economic but also for the political change of course in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3449	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Molterer. His speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3470	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The difference is already questionable: President Vergestnich has tried to speak here – I am also referring to this speech – in the spirit of commitment, which should also distinguish a trade unionist from devoting himself to a real acute problem, namely the labour market situation. Gusenbauer has now actually demasked and shown exactly what the SPÖ wants: simply and simply beat political little money. The SPÖ wants to abuse this situation, including the fate of these people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let us reject this, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] By the way, it is interesting: I have not heard from you, Dr. Gusenbauer, any proposal, any specific proposal. I would therefore like to address this very important question from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, so that the ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens see the difference between a party with responsibility and a party playing exclusively tactical games. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What are the facts? – In January 2006, with 3 185 995 employees, we have the highest level of employment we have ever had in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] At the same time – and I am always illuminating both sides of the medal – we also have the highest value with 326 774 Austrians, who have been reported as a job-seekers. Yes, that is true, Mr President. [[Call the SPÖ: That's wrong!]] - No, that's not wrong. That is the number that President Vergestnich has called; he will You think so. [[Abg. Oils: Too low!]] Ladies and gentlemen, so that we also know what the situation is, I say: First of all, there are 113 137 Austrians with a re-establishment guarantee for this number of jobseekers at the same time. And I'm telling you, I think this is a problem we have to deal with. It cannot be said that parts of the problems in the cost issue are socialised and all, including in the business sector, bear all the burdens that should actually be borne in the business areas themselves within the meaning of annual working time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The public service!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem I would like to address openly. This is also public money, and that is why it is a problem. You must recognize that these 113 000 people with a guarantee of employment are different from those who are unemployed for a long time. That is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, What bothers me very much – that is true of the Greens and the SPÖ, even with Mr Gusenbauer – is: They always criticize the number of persons, namely those 53 000 who are in training. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what is the meaning of active labour market policy? – Putting people into employment again – through training! [[Abg. You can do it!]] At times, however, I have the impression that the highest possible unemployment rate would be the best for you, because that would be water on your political mills, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ. Let's talk about it quite openly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The question of course activity is a success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Do not make your own success bad, namely the success of the Trade Union Confederation, which, for example, negotiates with the AMS and precisely the measures you criticise from the SPÖ, there with its voice and with the voice of many trade unionists! [[Abg. May. Muttons: As the bad guy thinks he is!]] This ambiguity, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is and must be shown in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From: I have dealt very precisely with your ten points, which, by the way, hardly include any news. But there are some interesting aspects to read. For example, you write on item 1, you would have to use the Presidency for an initiative for more economic growth. – Yes, this is happening: for growth, employment and medium-sized countries! But very interesting is that you then write: ‘Just a small economy (...) can only be successful if the neighbouring countries are trying to strengthen growth (...)’. Nothing else has we said for years: Red-Green in Germany was a disaster, ladies and gentlemen! And now, obviously, you're finally admitting that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, point 3 requires a revision of the EU Services Directive. – I think that is self-willing at all. By the way, this is your document. The 13th edition of the press conference was presented by Gusenbauer in February. In this one week something happened: The Services Directive has been revised, Mr President Vergestnich! I'm quoting: Swoboda, Member of the SPÖ in the European Parliament, welcomes the compromise reached. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A good man!]] The risk of wage dumping has been removed. National rules in collective contract and social security law would not be destroyed. And Swoboda expressly thanks for the involvement of the social partners in the revision of the Services Directive. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Sburny: What does Karas say about it?]] Now I don't know. They call for the revision that has already happened and is indeed praised by Swoboda – in my opinion rightly. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of investment, under point 6 you will require an increase. They write that the investment rate is only 1.1 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Eurostat!]] – They have simply and simply calculated or not looked at exactly. It is 2.6% above the EU average, Mr Vergestnich. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or – this is interesting –: At point 8, for example, you write about a “effective headquarters policy”. - I support that. But group taxation is nothing but effective headquarters policy, which you reject by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It is a pity that you, Mr President Vergestnich, have been involved in this double-dwelling. You know why? – I expressly regret that you are distanced from your own decision. You have voted in favour of the 285 million in the House, by the way, with the votes of all SPÖ Members. And you are now distanced from your own negotiation result with the AMS, because in the AMS every single measure has been negotiated socially in detail. In this way, this urgent request is actually a distrust request to the trade union association. Mr President, why do you not oppose your own group? That would actually be appropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Bypos, Mr Gusenbauer: You have a lot to do. Do you know where unemployment is highest? – Vienna ruled in red! And do you know what the real problem behind that is? – The length of residence in unemployment is 40 percent higher in the red-ruled Vienna than in the Austrian average! There you would have something to do, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Madness!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] By the way, they would also have to take action against the charges in Vienna: plus 5 percent in the price of electricity, plus 17 percent in the price of gas, plus 20 percent in the cost of waste, plus 28 percent in the cost of wastewater. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What's in Lower Austria?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud of this Austrian model, which brings power and social responsibility together. The social partners are part of this. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Mr Vergestnich, do not let yourself be put to the SPÖs.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3774	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3790	The SPÖ car is guided by Gusenbauer – and, as we know, almost always in the wrong direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3817	The next speaker is Mr Walch. His welcome time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3838	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting: Mr Vergestnich and Mr Gusenbauer have requested a special meeting for today, but I have not heard anything new. I need to help you find out a little bit more about your conscience. The unemployment rate in Austria is certainly not satisfactory, but when I compare internationally, I can say that Austria is in fifth place. It's not that bad again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I'd be interested in something, you'd go with a "start in clear" tour of the country: What are you telling people there? [[Abg. The truth!]] How do you want to tell people what economic policy you want to do in Austria, what employment policy, what social policy? Do you also tell people what economic policy there was when the SPÖ was in the government? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Are you saying that 76,000 workers in the national courts have lost their jobs under a red chancellor and a red finance minister? Are you saying that 10 billion schillings have been put in the sand for the DDSG? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Are you saying that 15 billion schillings have been put in the sand for the AMAG? Are you saying that there was a 26 billion schilling in the “consumer” and that thousands of workers lost their jobs? Are you saying that your SPÖ government has created many privileges in Austria, such as different pension systems? [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] You've always judged how it was best for you. That's why you've been chosen. And now you stand out here and want to reinvent the wheel. There's no man taking it from you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What a bit annoyed me, my colleague, is if you stand here and talk of 1,000 € minimum wage. – You can give the order yourself! Why didn't you put this into the union yet? You're on that lever. Do you have any argumentation problems? Where do you have problems? Invite me, I'll help you! I have arguments, I'm going to help you out. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We heard earlier that we unfortunately have 325,000 unemployed in Austria and 35 percent of them have a reintroduction commitment. If I hear from my colleague, Driemer, that the construction workers are supposed to work, I say here: I find it irresponsible and unheard when a construction wood trader says that in winter at minus 20 degrees construction workers should work on open construction sites. And if the construction worker no longer has a vacation, if there is no employment, then unfortunately the employer sends him to the unemployed, but then he sets him up again. I am also in favour of controlling if there are too many re-settings. If there are maladministrations, then they must be stopped. Mr Vergestnich and also colleague Gusenbauer, from the AMS Upper Austria, a civil servant went to Nuremberg to hire foreign workers for tourism there. She brought 20 by bus at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer to Gmunden to a hotel where they were invited to a brunch, and these people were then accommodated as workers. [[Abg. Controversy: Who's taking it?]] These aren't professionals, they're assistants, housegirls, and the like. And if in the field of Gmunden/Vöcklabruck four times as much in this resort are unemployed, I wonder: Who's sitting on the decisive levers? Isn't that a social democrat? Don't you want to keep unemployment high? – I apologize for such things that belong! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We're doing work! I would have expected Mr Vergestnich to be the trade union president over things and to sell positive positive! But he goes back to the opposition rail according to the motto: Süder and sluggish! My colleague, I know you in and out of the way. All the investments, all the programmes that you have worked with, you – I do not ask Mr Gusenbauer to do so anyway, because he is a different one – as a trade union president, you should also sell positively to the public. Examples: Apprenticeship offensive, anti-fraud law, family policy with Uschi Haubner or the engine of the construction industry with vice chancellor Gorbach € 30 billion for road and rail. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] We will expand the motorways in such a way that we can drive 160 km/h in the next future. The sad thing is that although the Social Democrats or the opposition blamed it, it is said by their chauffeurs behind them that they have to drive quickly so that they arrive at the airport in time. So be careful: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! Next example: social policy benefits, you only need to look at what has been done for pensioners alone. The tax reform enabled workers to return a lot of money, and pensioners also received money back. There was the largest pension increase, by 2.5 percent. You made a zero wage round for the pensioners in 1997. We've also increased the child's allowance. Under Minister Prammer, the karenz period has been reduced from two years to one and a half years. – Our Minister Haubner has raised her to three years. Other examples: Increase in the amount of earnings, increase in the amount of children's contributions and much more. – This is social policy that can be seen! So I have to say honestly: We're on the right path! This government's agenda item number one is the fight against unemployment. We do everything we can to reduce unemployment. We act – but you are subduing and nagging!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3963	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Desirable time: 6 minutes; agreed speaking time: 8 minutes. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3985	Ladies and gentlemen! President Verzetznitsch has by the way dropped a sentence that is important and has not been addressed to the Federal Chancellor Schüssel, namely: Austria would need an economic growth of 2.5 to 3 percent in order to improve the employment situation and reduce unemployment. Yes, this is not only the consistent opinion of the Trade Union Confederation, the economic researchers and so on, but I also agree with it: We need higher economic growth in Austria, of course linked to social responsibility and environmental sustainability, in the spirit of the Lisbon process. Then you'll ask yourself: So if we stay regularly below these magical values, where are the brakers of a policy that would make higher growth rates possible? I can make up a few. The main brakers are of course sitting on the right side of me and behind me, namely at the ÖVP and at the Austrian Federal Government – the applause from the SPÖ was perhaps a bit early – but also at the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] In particular, there are some brakes at the trade union federation in terms of higher economic growth. The main problem is certainly Mrs Gehrer and Minister of Finance Grasser, because higher economic growth – Mr Molterer, you will certainly agree with me, that is common sense – requires that we do more for research and development, for education, for training, for further training, and for life-long learning. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Education and training are at all the most important prevention measures, prevention measures against future unemployment. And how did we ask Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer – just too hairy! – take the results of the so-called PISA study seriously, e.g. by pointing out that one fifth of all 15-year-old school leavers cannot read enough, not fast enough, not meaningfully! The answer of the Federal Minister in an interview last autumn was – I can remember it exactly –: Pappattern! The Austrian schools are healthy! There is nothing to reform at all! In one point I agree with her: Teachers really strive to do the best for the most part from a situation in which they are more difficult and more difficult. This does not change the result that we cannot accept that so many young people with insufficient skills will be released into the labour market. If you do not believe us, Mr Molterer of the ÖVP, perhaps you believe the “Press”; this is truly not a so-called left fighter. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website It is said, among other things, that 4 percent of a year of age could not be taught in apprenticeships. That's what makes you cold? Faith You, at least, the press, who, in turn, is calling for an examination of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce? – I think that’s just the tip of the iceberg. This is a survey of trainees and trainees. In addition, there is a huge area: According to OECD – again in accordance with SPÖ’s request – around 11 percent of young people are neither in training nor in a farm. Yeah, what about them? They have an extremely high risk of becoming unemployed in the future. Our priorities must be set there: young people, young people, young people, and that is essentially at the beginning of education and training! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Again addressed to the SPÖ and the ÖVP: Why does Austria not benefit from the opportunities where we have dazzling market positions and in part still have, namely in the field of environmental protection and renewable energies? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In this context, I quote again the “Press”, namely, 6th. February. There it reads under the heading “Export Success through Climate Change”: “... Energy technology, biomass, solar systems, steel and cellulose technology and landfill technology.’ – To this end, the Chamber of Commerce says: We want to promote these areas! - But what are you doing? In the economic section of the press, it is also called “Ecoenergy at a new altitude”: Price fireworks on the stock exchanges. At present, the demand for photovoltaic cells cannot be met at all. Several companies have a sales increase of 40 percent per year. And what has this development promoted? – President Bush, not now famous for being the world’s pioneers on ecological issues, has recently said in his “reading to the nation” that the promotions for renewable energy are to be increased by a quarter. And what are you doing? – They reduce renewable energy funding by no less than 80 percent! Shouldn't you get used to that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have a growth area par excellence – but the Federal Government, that is, the ÖVP, the BZÖ and the rest of the FPÖ, but also the SPÖ in the corresponding committee wants to reduce these funding by 80 percent! What do you think about how this market will develop: cheap for the Austrian labour market or cheap for Austrian companies? Or you'll break a market there – with intention!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is really difficult to understand: in Austria we have a large competitive area, which is good for the economy, which is good for jobs that are good for economic prospects, but three of the four parties in the Austrian Parliament, except the Greens, want to make cuts in all these areas. You can explain this to the people outside the street when it comes to making modern labour market policy – and this is in the light of the events of last year: Tag ‘Oil price development’, keyword ‘Gas supply’. When, if not now, has the time come to get out of these sectors as far as it goes? Even President Bush seems to have understood this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen from the union: The European Trade Union Confederation is opposed to the transitional periods on the labour market, for good reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] For good reason, Mr President of the Council! We also consider these transitional periods to be anti-economic growth in Austria. We believe that this basically promotes the black market, the sheath resistance... [[Abg. That's what we've got!]] Yes, but it is still further promoted by these transitional periods! – This also promotes frenzy and last but not least seasonal activity. This is economically inefficient. People are there anyway, Mr President of the Council; They drive them through the extension of transitional periods into illegality, where neither these people nor the Austrian labour market have anything of it, let alone that economic growth in Austria is thereby promoted. I think this policy is missing. In addition to this, Mr President Vergestnich, you should also take into account the following: Austrian companies are on the road in Eastern Europe, in the EU-10 and in some countries beyond. Great! But what are people supposed to think when Austrian companies shop there – I say: for good reasons!; I support this very much, that is wonderful, which also strengthens the position of companies in Austria – but will not free movement on the labour market at the same time? I do not think that Europe's policy is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4082	That was 8 minutes, Mr Van der Bellen. Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. Your speaking time has been agreed with 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4107	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I believe that there is consensus here in the House that sustainable social security is closely linked to jobs, job creation and job security, and that is precisely in this awareness, the Austrian Federal Government has acted and responded in recent years. It would also be better for me to be a Social Minister if we had already reached the end of the road towards full employment. The balance sheet of this government, which has been invested in the field of labour market policy, can nevertheless be seen. With €1.5 billion, the use of resources for active labour market policy in 2005 has reached a new peak. For 2006, we will use 133 percent more resources to combat unemployment than in 1999. At the Intergovernmental Conference in autumn, as already mentioned, an additional comprehensive package was adopted here in the House with your votes. This means additional € 285 million. A key priority in labour market policy is of course to create jobs for young people and to facilitate young people's entry into work. We want all young people in education, in jobs, in clubs, in organizations, but certainly not on the street. Therefore, we must give young people perspectives, because without work the motivation to continue training is a very, very small one. In addition to the Blum premium in the apprenticeship sector, with which we have so far been very successful, we have been able to involve young people who do not have a degree, young people who are disabled, within the framework of the qualification course “Jobs for You(th)” – last year 34 000 people, up to now there were 10,000 people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the degree of education is a very important factor in this area. The creation of the opportunity to recapture this is an important and offensive step in the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The research quota has already been discussed today. Research is the basis for further positive labour market development. Austria, with its research rate of 2.38 percent, is above the European average. We had an increase of 8 percent in the previous year compared to the last years. This money flows not only in large companies, but also in small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the foundation of the Austrian economy. In the context of the research incentives and the extension of the research exemption, this will ultimately benefit those companies that need it. In the area of infrastructure, as has already been tailor-made, the interface between economy, society and the environment is very, very essential. In recent years, we have provided enormous resources for the high-level road and rail network and, above all, for noise protection measures. In 2004, it was €1.12 billion, and in 2005 it was €1.3 billion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we also know that investments amounting to € 1 billion mean 15,000 additional jobs, because infrastructure measures are fuel for the economy and for employment. However, we also take our social responsibility very seriously, especially for people with disabilities. This is always too little in the whole discussion being held here. We have made great efforts to bring people with special needs in the present and also in the future into working life. That is why we launched an employment offensive with the disabled billion on the part of the Austrian Federal Government in 2001. We are fully aware of three acute problems: on the one hand, the entry into and on the other hand the re-entry of people with disabilities into the open labour market and, above all, the safeguarding of endangered jobs. As a measure for the integration of disabled people, we have since implemented: Integration aid with temporary takeover of wage costs, the development of accompanying aid projects at the workplace, the development of post-maturation projects, especially for disabled young people, job security assistance for older disabled people and, in particular, the strengthening of qualification and employment projects. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress in particular the clearing and youth work assistance. The clearing positions form the first link to the interface between the transition from school to profession with multi-layer networking and reference functions. Especially in this area, it is necessary to continue to set up initiatives. I am very pleased that this clearing measure was selected by the European Commission for 2004 as the "Best Practice" example and presented accordingly to the European Member States. Here we have another example of learning from the others and from one another. I think we can show a lot on the part of Austria. Public service, ladies and gentlemen, is also a good example for people with disabilities. We decided last year in the autumn clause of the Federal Government to create 200 additional disabled posts in the Federal Service. In my home alone and the corresponding Federal Social Offices, about 400 of the total of 1,400 employees are people with disabilities. In 2003 we spent a total of € 106 million on labour market initiatives for people with disabilities. In 2006 the budget will be increased again, and a total of € 141 million will be available. This too should be borne in mind, please, in the context of this discussion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another area is the balance between family and profession. And here too, this federal government has not only done its homework in recent years, but has developed very intensively, because reconciliation between work and family is a key task of every employment and generation policy. Especially with the establishment of the family alliance, I think we have taken a right step towards companies to further develop new concepts of compatibility with the companies. However, we also linked the labour market package last year with a stronger qualification of re-entry women. Some 22,000 women will benefit from the courses planned for this purpose. We have also launched additional investments in the field of care and health professions, which in particular benefits a lot of women. [[Abg. Reheis: Because just so many are unemployed!]] Some 1,400 people will benefit from these additional measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We need women in the job, but we also need families, we also need children. It has never been done so much in the area of ensuring the purchasing power of families and also in the area of combating poverty for families, because families with several children and with single earners are particularly vulnerable here. However, we will also continue to ensure that measures are taken that meet the wishes of many women, namely part-time work. We want to be fair to this, because a monitoring has shown that every second woman who relates to child care benefits is already working again during that time. This also gives a good compatibility of work and family, in addition to the legal framework conditions at part-time, at parental part-time and similar. We have also said very clearly within the framework of our family project that we must continue to support services which we also support in the form of childcare facilities. Accordingly, we created 1 000 seats in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to create work for all generations in the future and, above all, ensure social cohesion and social security. With a social ratio of 29.3 percent, we are safe on a good path. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done the right thing! We continue to work – and we don't just talk things bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4182	Mrs Bures. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4204	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that 380 000 unemployed people – young, old, men and women – are all enough to hold a special session in Parliament and that we politicians should also deal with this situation. I think I'm going to do it now, as are some of the spectators in front of the television screens, who are shocked at how you deal with this issue, how you're really wrong with this situation of 380 000 people. [[Abg. Amon: How do you want to know?]] Mrs Haubner, many of you as the Minister for Social Affairs have wanted much more commitment in recent years. The only thing you have to count on at this lecture is that you have clearly read here with some concern the numbers that apparently prescribed you Wolfgang Schüssel with his number tricks. The Federal Chancellor, on the other hand, did not take the words “unemployed people ” into his mouth once at all. He didn't even talk about how people who are deprived of their future opportunities who don't have a job that can't take part in social life because they don't have money. [[Abg. Amon: (both ears pulling to the side) You must listen!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: They didn't listen!]] No word has been given by this Chancellor in such a dramatic situation about the life situation of these people here! And this is embarrassing for a German chancellor, Mr. Molterer! It's embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Molterer, you are, however, taking the steps of the Federal Chancellor. If you talk about political change in 380 000 unemployed people, that is also embarrassing. [[Abg. Schools: Your actions are embarrassing!]] You cannot assume your political responsibility to ensure that Austria has the sad record of the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The Austrians are satisfied that they have been hearing the same from you for six years. Again and again empty promises come from you, but the reality of people's life is unfortunately quite different than always being tried to tell us about these banks here. Thousands of unemployed people are victims Your bad economic policy, are victims of your bad employment policy, are victims of your empty promises. Six years ago, Federal Chancellor, you said that the new Federal Government will consistently combat unemployment. Do you know what was consistent? – The rise in unemployment! Consequences of annual unemployment have increased. That's the truth, not what you say. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said six years ago that the aim of this Federal Government is full employment. Do you know what the truth is? – You have actually carried the course of full employment, which Austria has always taken, to the grave! You are the unemployment record chancellor in this country! They have record unemployment to answer! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vienna has the highest unemployment! Vienna pushes Austria down!]] We are not moving towards full employment, but towards the 10% mark as far as unemployment is concerned. This is the reality of life, which you unfortunately do not want to take note of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vienna! Vienna! Tell me! Why is Vienna so bad?]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have also promised a lot to young people. You and the ÖVP promised an immediate programme for unemployed young people four years ago. It was four years ago. – Nothing is with the “Sofort programme”! For four years young people have been waiting for this “sofort program. ” Youth unemployment rose by 53 percent in your government time. That is, the only thing you have done right away is such a bad economic and employment policy that we have a rapid increase in youth unemployment. They are responsible for our youth in many areas, that over 50,000 young people unfortunately have no future prospects in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You've had the chance, Federal Chancellor. You've promised a lot for six years. – But you didn’t like it at all – and besides your empty promises still use a lot of excuses! They said that the Germans, the foreigners, the natives – and the opposition, because they put the problem on the table. You have recently said that the severe winter is due to unemployment. – This your way of dealing with unemployment is embarrassing, Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Grill: It's embarrassing that you have no idea at all!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you know what the difference between us and you is? – We take this to heart, we take to heart the fate of these people. [[Abg. Amon: You can see that!]] Therefore, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer presented a ten-point program, and I ask you to: Accept this program! Fritz Verzetznitsch and Alfred Gusenbauer have put on the table here, as it could be better for Austria. It doesn't have to be as bad for thousands of people as it is under your government responsibility, Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Take a look at our economic programme!]] In Austria, it could be much better if you address the concerns of people. That is why there will be a political change in course in Austria, because we all deserve something better.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4398	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4420	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Unemployment is certainly a problem that cannot be taken seriously enough. And if something is right in the urgent request of the Social Democrats, then the first sentence is that the situation on the labour market is depressing. Just, ladies and gentlemen, the question is not: Is the situation just as it is?, but: How do you deal with this? The question is finally: Do you want to make a contribution to solving the problem – or do you want to be the political profiter of this dramatic, this difficult situation? If you don't want to believe it, Mr Czoklich made it clear to you today in the Ö1 “Mitagsjournal”: The fact that workers' chamber, trade union, SPÖ have always included the training courses and, last but not least, the members of pension subsidies and the transfer of old age funds are expected to make this number of unemployed appear politically high, I think it is very problematic. To say it with your words, dear Bures: I think this is not just a problem, it is a shame! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since you're always here pretending we didn't do anything: Mr Czoklich, on the other hand, has made it quite clear that, in fact, a number of employment and economic packages have been attached to the government in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, it is actions that create facts – and not allegations. There have never been as many employees in Austria as you do – whether you want to hear from the SPÖ or not. There has never been a higher economic performance and a higher economic growth; we have a higher than everyone else. We have lower unemployment than the average of the others. People are less unemployed than in other countries. For the first time, we have succeeded in pressing the time spent in unemployment to 99 days, even at 68 days for young people. We have fewer youth unemployed than all other countries; almost all other countries to remain correct. [[Abg. No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true at all! That's incredible!]] We're in fourth place internationally. Again, Mr Czoklich: The SPÖ, who has tried this meeting here, ladies and gentlemen, should also say where it wants to create these 50 000 jobs. – But she does not! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Either you don't know – or you don't want to understand!]] You do not only do that, dear friends of social democracy, you even turn away from your own decisions. You have decided with us in this House a package of €285 million for active labour market policy. – But now you say at once, they should be used differently. After all, you have taken all the measures in the AMS's bodies, and you are now saying, contrary to the decisions of your social partners, that the funds should be used differently? Yeah, what now? – I think the suspicion is justified: They come from the political point of view of unemployment, and you have nothing to do with improving these figures. Mr Vergestnitsch has said something completely right: Labour market policies are the one – creating growth and thereby generating employment – the other. The market economy – to be read in the “profile” today; the US economist Peter Boettke said that correctly – follows their rules, not romantic ideas. That is why our tax policy is also aimed at creating growth. Our tax reform – the Wifo says that – also creates almost 1 percent more growth in the long term. These are also 12 000 to 15 000 jobs, ladies and gentlemen. – Decreated by Wifo, not claimed by us. And the public investment rate, a contribution to the stabilisation of the economy, is 2.3 percent – and not, as you claim, 1.1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We are burdening businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises with our tax policy. What does the “Kronen Zeitung” say about SPÖ? – The design of the new SP-Economic Programme includes the "grudent height taxation of the middle class". [[Ah-and-oh-run at the ÖVP.]] One could not express it much more dramatically than the “Kronen Zeitung ” told you. Ladies and gentlemen! We have problems in the labour market, yes, but unlike you, we pick up these problems and contribute to solving these problems. We should, I believe, spare people in this country that you will return to government responsibility from the SPÖ – and if only in the second place. You want to burden the middle class, and you want to benefit from the political problems instead of solving them. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4507	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time: 6.5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4528	Mr President. Deputy Minister of the Federal Government! Mrs Bures, you claimed that we would not take this issue seriously enough. – No question at all: Of course, the problem of job creation is a very important matter, and of course it is also justified to hold a special meeting on it so that we can discuss necessary measures here. Only: As serious as you present this, you should not take it with this question, for otherwise you could have asked for this special session when these data were certainly published. There was a special meeting, Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bures, exactly at the time when this data was published, but it was not important for you to discuss labour market policy by the SPÖ, but it was important for you to discuss how security measures in the Art History Museum could have been improved by the Minister of Education. – So there are your priorities to question as well. As you welcome this ten-point programme, I say to you: This is a ten-point programme of the past, because all of this has already been implemented, as you have described in the headings here. We should talk about the future, how we can create sustainable jobs, how we manage to support and strengthen the economy here in Austria in such a way that it can create more jobs through stronger growth. Mr Gusenbauer has explained what happens when he is in the next government. He literally said: We will provide teaching facilities. - So you, the SPÖ. Mr Gusenbauer, where You provide them: in Löwelstraße, in your party headquarters – or where are these teaching places made available? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's exactly where we differ: We believe that the state can and must provide the framework conditions for the labour market, but jobs create the economy. We need to ensure that businesses can create apprenticeships and jobs, but not through the party headquarters. So you should not pretend to be able to guarantee jobs yourself. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They demand from SPÖ here to strengthen research and development. - Of course! Vice chancellor Gorbach has done this, just in these last five or six years. They require more investment in infrastructure. – Never before has there been so much investment in rail and road infrastructure as in these six years of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. They demand a growth-oriented tax policy. But when it came to supporting with your yes our tax reduction, which has greatly increased purchasing power, you voted against, ladies and gentlemen. There, where it is a question of scrapping the citizens, namely, where you have the say from the SPÖ, like in Vienna, you will clearly show what your policy is. It has already been said, but you have to present it again: The water and wastewater charges in Vienna will be increased by 28 percent, the garbage fee by 20 percent, you demand a heating allowance – and at the same time the electricity price will be increased by 5 percent in Vienna and the gas price by 17 percent, ladies and gentlemen! They don't take themselves seriously anymore and believe that people are taking something from you. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will already know that you can continue scrapping actions, which you have also carried out in the nineties! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should talk about it, my Ladies and gentlemen, how it can be in the present and future to accept and endure the new challenges. – However, we do not notice anything in your SP past program, in your ten-point program. How to meet at the European level of globalisation? How to deal with wage dumping in the European Union? – These are questions that are also important, but in the future we have to deal with wage dumping globally, because in Asia, the markets where wage dumping is made competitive with our businesses. There are now the jobs we are missing. There, because the environmental conditions are quite different from ours, is produced cheaply, and these goods are imported into Europe and the European Union and thus also into Austria. We should look at how we help the Austrian enterprises, which are primarily small and medium-sized, to take a foothold on international markets. That would, of course, also be the case for the Chamber of Commerce. It is not the closure of foreign trade agencies that should be the question here, but, quite the contrary, it should be an offensive of these foreign trade activities. One should not criticise ministers when they try to support Austrian businesses on their trips abroad, but should be praised to mention that politics creates precisely the conditions for the export-oriented economy to prosper. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We should talk about these things, ladies and gentlemen, how we can continue to strengthen purchasing power through a further step of tax and tax reduction, just as we support and demand Austria's future alliance. We should also talk about how... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Do not criticise tax dumping, but promote the economic location of Austria: by attracting measures, just as we – you were against the SPÖ – did with the reduction of the cheese. These are meaningful and forward-looking initiatives that really create jobs – in contrast to your SP past program, where you believe, with ideology, Marx and Murks, you can achieve something positive for the future in a state. And: We like to keep up with the comparison you always demand. With our future programmes, we will create the trend change, because only growth and not ideology – you know – create jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4653	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Requested time: 4 minutes; in accordance with the agreement you will be given 5 minutes. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4674	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor, since you took over the government, female unemployment has increased in such a way that we have to expect 18 unemployed women per day of your government. That's your balance sheet! And what are you doing? They make themselves today – once again, you have to say – and try to use some slogans to clasp these unpleasant truths. What's the woman's minister doing? She's not even here. What does the Minister of Social Affairs do? After all, she has created a few jobs for orange partygoers and walkers by establishing a “family-gesmbH”. What does the Minister of Labour and Economic Affairs do? – Keep studies under the table that bring unpleasant truths back to light. For example, he has just been lying around a study on new self-employed and temporary work, which has come to the conclusion that 65 percent of women who are employed in temporary work are at risk of poverty, that is, far from being able to live by the work they are doing. That's not going to be published. That is the record of this government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If one finds a common denominator of what your policy looks like, then one can only call it dumping policy, and I will be happy to harden this accusation. You, Mr. Bundeskanzler, have been great harbingers – you can do that well – how the number of employees in Austria has increased wonderfully. – If I look at this now, only for women who are at least half of the population, and this increase in employment in normal full-time jobs, such jobs that a woman has a secure outcome, then I note – these are Eurostat sources; Mr Bundeskanzler, you yourself said earlier that Eurostat is inconceivable – that in the last ten years all EU-15 countries have had a strong growth, with the exception of: There is a state in which the employment of women, converted into full-time jobs, has decreased significantly: Austria. And I think that's a shame! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The government policy that you are doing transforms full-time jobs, of which people can live well, into minor employment conditions, atypical jobs, part-time jobs, so all jobs in which you have to live at the very limit of existence or clearly below. And you're very happy to say, when it comes to women: They want such jobs! Show me a woman who offers a well-paid full-time job with a good quality, well-reached childcare, we say, from 7 a.m. in the morning to 8 p.m., says: [[Call at ÖVP:24 hours would be even better!]] No, I'd rather have a minor job! – Your argument is simply not correct! Give the women good conditions! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I believe that a group is very close to my heart, which you have not even mentioned or registered. Of the young women under 25 years of age, almost half, 44 percent belong to the area described in the labour market jargon as “so beautiful” with “ insufficiently insured on the labour market”, i.e. those who have no job at all, but only occasional jobs and have a gross income of €1,630 a year. 1 630 € gross a year! This is the basis on which young people should build up their careers, their families and their further lives, the basis you offer them?- Oh, my God! No, thank you! Ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government, stop your wage dumping policy, your tax dumping policy, your employment dumping policy! The only thing you like to dump is self-determination; I do not want to take your self-determination! But finally, in the labour market, make for better prospects for young people, for women, for older people – instead of always calling for a champion competition with each other!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4749	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The unfortunate issue of record unemployment is once again bringing the National Council together, and I would like to remind you that Austria's social democracy has repeatedly pointed out the urgency of taking action against these scourges. But what were the answers we heard? ==References== There was a special meeting on August 2003, because our economic growth has fallen significantly. The Minister of Finance, who is absent today – so much to the point of contributing to the fight against unemployment – then replied to a concrete proposal to strengthen fiscal investment incentives in this country and to raise mass purchasing power by relieving small and medium-sized incomes, that his conviction prevailed – by the way Grasser used the form of a pluralis Majestatis – that such measures would not have a targeted effect on the economy according to all the economic theories we know. Only: The truth, ladies and gentlemen, looks different: Other countries have better finance ministers, because they have taken measures that have been very likely to affect the weak economic situation. I should therefore like to add to the comments made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with regard to his "incalculable" statistics of EUROSTAT. The Federal Chancellor has called Sweden, Sweden, which is said to be far behind Austria. – What interests me is something else: In the period from 1999 to 2005, Sweden recorded 2.8 percent of economic growth, one of only 1.9 percent in Austria. Sweden has made a better economic policy. And I do not want our country to make a worse economic policy than countries on this continent that are making for more employment and less unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! For the third time, it was claimed that 1.1 percent of public investment was wrong. – You are wrong, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! You're wrong, too, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. It is the official EUROSTAT statistics, i.e. those which the Federal Chancellor has called ‘incalculable’, which show Austria as the final light of the European Union with only 1.1 percent of public investment! That's really dramatic! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Without ÖBB, without ASFINAG, without...! One and one is two!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The ladies and gentlemen on the government bank are trying to calculate apples and pears together. All that is not Maastricht-relevant in public investment is not there, and in... – moment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] This is true in all countries! And in all the countries of Europe, including this investment, you have a higher value than in Austria, and that is a shame to our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's just stick to the investments: The investment of private companies has fallen in this country because you have removed investment promotions, ladies and gentlemen. This measure has probably had an effect on the economy, it has created unemployment, which today suffers 380 000 people. Let the economy and the companies invest instead of promoting abroad with group taxation loss holdings! Promote in Austria and not in China, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4843	The next speaker is Mr Amon. His speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4864	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! It is actually sad that social democracy chooses the topic of unemployment to start an election campaign here. This is actually very disappointing, because the issue is a very serious one, and I am very proud that the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Labour, as well as the Federal Government as a whole, takes this issue extremely seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] It is an important issue – and it has not been since you asked SPÖ to take action by means of a special meeting, but it is an important issue since we have to deal with the problem that is, by the way, a European problem. Therefore, it is also permissible to risk international comparison, and you may also acknowledge that it is the Austrian Federal Government, which is more successful in active labour market policy than it is in 21 other governments in Europe. To this end, this Federal Government, Mr Bundeskanzler, is to be congratulated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Special meetings, Dr. Gusenbauer, will not create jobs. Job creation creates effective programmes in labour market policy. Despite a not easy budgetary situation, this Federal Government takes €285 million to pursue an active labour market policy – an amount that is out of dispute that you have decided to do. You're not saying it's gonna have to be more. You say that the amount is actually correct, and we believe it is. This federal government then said: We leave it to the experts in the labour market service to use these funds! There is also a unanimous decision to this effect. In view of this, I can only advise you that you should vote more internally with your representatives of the Trade Union Confederation. That would really be desirable. To Mrs Bures, who said that she always heard of us! – That’s right because our course is right! That's why you always hear from us the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Bures, you should be careful that you do not take the word “change of course” into your mouth too often, because whenever you take the word “change of course” into your mouth, your party president changes course, and this results in a zigzag course that no one in this country can need! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It has proved that the SPÖ cannot operate. She proved it at the “consumer” and proved it to the national authorities, she proved it at Bank Austria, she proved it at Bank Burgenland, she proved it at BAWAG and at the “AZ”. The SPÖ's economic policy is similar to that of this special meeting: Except for nothing to pay!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4943	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3.5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4967	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall, but also ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! Mr Gusenbauer presented his 10-point programme in his speech. Only: If you look at these 10 points – I just did it – you realize that they are sound and smoke. Some of what stands in there is not even worth the paper, which says that other approaches might be quite good; I take only one example: increasing the resources for infrastructure measures. Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, that was before your political time, you have to admit that you had no responsibility in the SPÖ From 1985 to 1999 under SPÖ leadership for infrastructure measures, 20.7 billion have been spent, whereas in the responsibility of our Federal Government, among our infrastructure ministers, € 40.5 billion has been spent on this area. [[The speaker shows a bar chart]] In other words, there is a doubling of resources for infrastructure and thus a doubling of the number of jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Because you stand out from the SPÖ and threaten us formally to seek a change of course and take on government responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, I can give you two examples of what this government responsibility looks like. Let us first take an example from the past; Mr Amon has already suggested: There was the BAWAG scandal, with 425 million € placed in the sand, which was made out sometime in an afternoon. Over 6 billion schillings were placed in the sand. Next example: ÖGB. Last year, the ÖGB reported a record loss of over €40 million. The Austrian Trade Union Federation has managed over €40 million! Other examples: “Consum” plea, Bank Austria. There's a lot of things you could mention here. This is a policy that you should really “enjoy ” with caution! [[Abg. Gradwelt: Stay with agriculture! You don't understand anything about the other things!]] Yes, Heinz Gradwelt, now we come to the Styria, next example: In Styria, Franz Voves has taken action for a change in politics. He has announced reforming this country. A hundred days Franz Voves: terrifying balance! Ladies and gentlemen! Before the election, Franz Voves said: no electricity price increase! – In Styria there has been the most massive electricity price increase in the Second Republic. [[Abg. May. Trunk: To Carinthia! To Carinthia!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There was no job created in the Styria! – Your excitement shows me that I’m right, because otherwise you’re more bored in your own special sessions, but today I’m probably right. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, what did Franz Voves do? – He has exchanged supervisory boards in EStAG and in all national companies. Dr. Lacina finally got another job so he can go on. The National School Council President – and you have to think about this before – was appointed by a Federal Council. That means that he is now the Federal Council and the National School Council President, that is, double earners. This is unique in the history of the Second Republic! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And next year he will take over the chairmanship of the Federal Council and thus earn more than the Federal President of the Republic of Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This is the SPÖ's work policy! You can see it in the Styria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] You have to let that happen to you, it's useless, it's your policy! In addition, over 60 members of the political offices were transferred to the state administration. This means that there are also jobs created for political failure in the cabinets. [[Abg. May. Trunk: In Carinthia! In Carinthia!]] And the summit is: What do you think about how many employees Mr. Voves, the SPÖ's job-creator, has in his cabinet? – Franz Voves has 25 employees in his cabinet! – By comparison: Ms. Justice Minister Gastinger has ten. – The comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5119	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 3.5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5140	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, here in the house! Dear viewers! Mr Scheuch, I would just like to comment on what you have done: Someone like you, Mr. Scheuch, whose head of the party per day fried 1,000 euros – and not only over a few weeks, but over years – who is so far away from what Austrians actually have problems should really be silent on this point. That would be appropriate! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: benefits everything from the Austrian economy!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is really depressing that the government parties on this subject, which they have welcomed themselves, no longer think of as beauty dyeing. [[Abg. Neudeck: In the Styria you are not there at all!]] Mr Molterer, we can discuss this issue – but please, without incense. [[Abg. Wattaul: From economy you have no idea!]] We are not the ones responsible for all the unemployment in this country by the Federal Government, the ÖVP, the FPÖ or the BZÖ, but we would like to point out very specifically, Mr Molterer, that this Federal Government is responsible for the deficits in the field of education. You are responsible, as the Federal Government, that there is still a very high percentage of young people who de facto leave school as illiterates! [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] It is not all right to take note of this with shoulder tipping or “Paperlap”! That is the responsibility of this Federal Government! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We can easily argue about whether we have the highest employment in Austria we ever had. I say: No, no, no, Mr Bundeskanzler, what you are presenting here is simply not true! You can argue with the number of business start-ups that have risen from 22,000 to 32,000, but then please also say how many people go into bankruptcy each year, please tell them – Mr Grillitsch, you know – how many farmers have to quit their jobs every year! If you calculate all this together, then you realize that nothing has actually changed in all these years – positively. [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the jumping point! They didn’t want to hear the word “positive! ” The word “positive” does not exist with you!]] As far as employment is concerned, please, together, the employment of self-employed and the employment of self-employed! Then you'll see: Nothing has changed – despite your shawls, despite your incense! The only thing that has increased dramatically is unemployment. I remember the year 1997 – we also had very high unemployment – and what was going on at that time! They were also in the government at the time, Mr Molterer, and perhaps you still know from the perspective what was going on, what the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party/BZÖ then listed, who and by what methods they were responsible for the members of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Steibl: Don't show with your finger!]] What we expect from you, dear Ladies and gentlemen, where you really have to take responsibility – in the field of education, in the area of lack of resources for active labour market policies, for example, in the area of wrong curative measures – you take responsibility. But you do not do that – you speak beautifully, and that is not good, because the truth is reasonable to people, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the seven-year transitional period? How can you answer that?]] Instead of sending 50,000 people into courses that do not help them to take courses that help people who offer them qualifications! What we criticize is that for years – for years! – the costs per measure are falling! The quality of the courses is getting worse, it gets thinner and thinner! Instead of countering it, and since the people who might actually need it to give more opportunities, do not do anything. [[Abg. Wattaul: Only politically managed, the AMS! Only party politics in the AMS!]] Create the opportunity for Sabbath holidays! Create the opportunity for educational holidays! [[Abg. Wattaul: Stop party politics in the AMS!]] Create They make it possible for people who are in employment and who suffer too much work load to be able to leave consciously – for education, but also for recovery! That would be measures we expect from you. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Create opportunities for young people, Mr Molterer, that they can really get into work, and not that they have to wait two, three, four or five years until they have a job at all! – You know, Mr Molterer, what consequences this has and what this means for the safety of young people as a whole: This is about the possibility of establishing a house stand, the possibility of living partnerships, the possibility of putting children into the world. All of this is very much affected by this extreme uncertainty that is now in place for young people. I am not saying that only the ÖVP is responsible, but your part of the responsibility you actually have as a government party does not take over, that you speak beautifully – and that is the wrong thing in this situation!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5343	The next item is the report by Mr Riepl. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5364	Madam President. High house! What did the Minister of Labour of our Republic actually say about rising unemployment just under two years ago, in concrete terms on 5 May? May 2004? – Federal Minister Bartenstein said: We are very good on the road! The goal remains, of course, full employment – only then am I satisfied as Minister of Labour! - Quote. Mr Bartenstein, how satisfied are you today? - We haven't heard from you yet. If I look at your facial features, I have to say you're making a happy impression. The economy is doing well to increase stock prices – in my opinion, the Minister of Economic Affairs can be rightly satisfied. [[Abg. Grandruck: It's better to climb them than they fall!]] But as Minister of Labour? Are you really doing well as Minister of Labour in these figures? You, Federal Minister Bartenstein, have promised to reduce the number of unemployed. – The opposite has occurred; it has already been pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! More than 38 unemployed per day in the last five years: This is the result of your policy! I repeat: Every day, there's 38 more unemployed people since you've been in the government, in concrete terms in the last five years! Federal Chancellor! Minister of Labour! You can get it to the point: In the fight against unemployment you have failed! And the best thing you'd do is you do what you do now, Federal Chancellor, namely: You go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel left the meeting room.]] For all ideas to have the Federal Government, we have heard today. A concrete example: the vocational school for sanitary and heating technology in Vienna. The director and the teachers there are hurting that there are many who have broken down the teaching and cannot come to the teaching degree. And they are now trying to start a project – a post-qualification project. The Director says: We don't want to watch and wait for unemployed young people to get a job again, we want to help, we want to do something and we'll do something! – There is a heart initiative! Why do I bring this example? . I am therefore bringing it because what is done at this school is not at all a job of a professional school. Some legal changes would be necessary in this area. I invite you, Minister of State: Go with me to this professional school, invest half an hour and listen to the dedicated teacher there! There's something you can learn. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the labour market, there are a number of problems – we have already pointed out –: illegal employment, new forms of employment and much more. We will certainly be able to discuss this in detail at the next committee meetings and to make further proposals. Today, I would like to make one more motion for a resolution from my group, a request from Members of the European Parliament by Riepl, comrades and comrades concerning the reduction of teachers' unemployment by reducing the number of students in classes, because ÖVP Vienna demands 22 instead of 28 students per class. – So very interesting: Finally, there is a sub-organisation of the ÖVP which takes up our ideas – that of social democracy – and therefore this motion for a resolution to minimise record unemployment. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as our motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, is concerned. Mr Klubobmann Molterer, you have also tabled a motion for a resolution, namely the motion for a resolution Mikesch, Hofmann. There the Managing Director of the AMS Wien, window, is quoted. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This is a lady, Mr. Colleague! For God's sake!]] The managing director's name is Claudia Finster, is a colleague, a lady, and it's a little embarrassing when you present documents here that don't even keep the sexes apart. I'd say, Pull it back and correct it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5448	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Riepl has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5503	I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee for the implementation of the Chipkarte/e-card project. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. The next item is Mr Bartenstein's speech. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5536	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to start by commenting on Mr Riepl's comments: Of course I am not satisfied with the situation on the labour market! Of course, 326,000 people reported unemployed at the end of January are far too much! Of course, it is a fact that 54 000 Austrians are in qualification, and these are people who, if you want to, can be described as looking for work. Of course, I am not right about the trend that we have seen about 10,000 unemployed in the annual period. But, as at the beginning of this special meeting of the National Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask myself a little bit about the seriousness of the concern, especially the social-democratic opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, after several years of activity in the Hohen Haus, still with the center of activity here in Vienna, you do not know who the managing directors, the deputy directors of the AMS Vienna are and then also quotes here, I ask myself, Mr Riepl: What do you think if you see such a degree of ignorance here? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If in this urgent request... [[Abg. Riepl: I didn't understand that, Minister of State! Repeat this, please!]] It sheds a significant light on you, honourable Member, and on your'responsibility'. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== This year, the Social Democrats presented their package of measures and, in this context, the mention of 380 000 unemployed, but Dr. Gusenbauer has repeatedly spoken about 380 000 people seeking work today, then one will not get the suspicion that a game is being played here, which has already been pointed out, even independent editors of the ORF today call it something that should appear politically as high as possible and therefore is already very problematic. – Quote: In my opinion, there will be a political game on the back of the unemployed. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen: O-Ton ORF this afternoon, an independent editor. [[Abg. Heinzl: This is for sure the Lord Mück!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I then also complied with Dr. Gusenbauer's request and his ten points, this "measure package", in the sense of what you can learn from it and: Is there something new about it? – I have to say: It's not much! On the whole, it's points that we do 1 : 1 anyway. Then: We are for more growth and employment in Europe, we are investing in infrastructure, we are considering further investment programmes for thermal building renovation, and, and, and. But, ladies and gentlemen, item 10 calls for an alternative labour market package to be chained. – And this comes from the mouth of opposition leaders, who have been sitting here a few weeks ago and who together with his group have given the consent of a labour market package, which includes all of what is now being called for, with no variations, an opposition leader, who has to note that the social partners in their competence have not only adopted this package in the management bodies of the AMS, but also there have defined the number of distribution of the corresponding priorities. I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Van der Bellen, when he says that the priority must be the qualification of young people. However, if the experts of the AMS and the Board of Directors have established additional labour market and qualification programmes for young people in a scale of 30 600 qualifications opportunities for 2006, what does Dr. Gusenbauer think if he expresses in his application that 20 000 young people are supposed to be less than 10 000 than the experts of the AMS have agreed? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What does a Dr. Gusenbauer think if he says here today that 20 percent of employees in Austria would earn less than € 1,000? You have to think about it first: What could be the point: the small employees, the part-time workers? This would otherwise be a massive charge, especially against the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, against the social partners if 20 percent of Austrians were to earn less than € 1,000! – Thank God it is so many. So another misevaluation, another statement by Dr. Gusenbauer, which we do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So, from our point of view, it is not a fundamentalist rejection, but a critical analysis of what social democracy and Mr Gusenbauer and, of course, President Vergestnitsch have said today and which, at least, makes me very much doubt about the seriousness of this issue. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now there are also a few comments on the Services Directive, on a subject which will be discussed in the European Parliament at first reading tomorrow and which will be voting on Thursday. What does the Social Democracy of this country think if, on Thursday last week, a great compromise – it was called a ‘breakthrough’ – has come between the Christian Democrats and Social Democrats of Europe, when on Friday last week Mr Swoboda, certainly not an unknown one, but a prominent, competent social democracy, together with our Othmar Karas presented this compromise in Vienna, and he also pointed out, among other things, that, for example, wage dumping, social dumping on the basis of this directive and on the basis of this compromise reached? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What does a Social Democracy of Austria think if point 3 of its 10-point programme states that the EU Services Directive must be revised and the country of origin envisaged should be avoided? – ‘Income country principle’, Mr Verzetznitsch, no longer stands inside, and what stands inside has been accepted by the Social Democrats, welcomed by your Mr Swoboda and many others, and I also believe that it is a good basis for further activity. [[Abg. Sburny: But there is still!]] As Minister of Labour, the question is therefore: Where is the seriousness of the concern to hold a special meeting, and one notices the intention and is a little tuned when one goes to the bottom of things. I say once, and this is more than a suspicion that you wanted to scare the Austrians over weeks and worry that an unemployment of over 400 000 would be feared. You knew it wouldn't happen, but you wanted to play a frivolous game on the back of the workers – and you're still doing it. You don't really distance yourself from this today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As Professor Van der Bellen on the green criticism of the extension of the transitional periods by the Federal Government, by my house, by three years, I mean: It is good that this is also discussed in the House. In addition to this, we believe that, with all the appreciation of its work and its report, the Commission has not included two essential things in the report, namely the question of geographical conditions in Europe, such as near Vienna – Bratislava in comparison to Prague – London, for example, that the European Commission has not really translated a scenario in this regard: What would have happened in Austria if we had not made use of the transitional periods in the first two years? May I point out to you that Austria is already that country today, alongside the Germans and Spaniards, who have the highest share of third-country nationals in its labour market and that we must not hide from anything and no one in Europe as far as our acceptance of foreign workers from other EU countries or even from non-EU countries is concerned. That has already been said very clearly. Of course, we will make use of the extension of these transitional periods, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of unemployment, which is only easy, but still rising, in terms of Austria's workers' responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me conclude, because I have been very concerned about the fact that, with terms like job seekers, unemployed people are running a little polemics on the back of the workers – the problem of people in Austria with re-establishment commitment, with recruitment commitment. The fact that this is a fact, a certain tradition that is not entirely avoidable, especially in the areas of construction and tourism, is quite conceded here. But, Mr President, what alerts me is that, at the end of January, we have around 3 per cent more unemployed in Austria, but by 13 per cent more people with recruitment and re-establishment commitments, we reach new record values here with 113 000 employees with re-establishment and recruitment commitments, that we no longer have 80 or 90 per cent of the recruitment commitments in the areas of construction and tourism, i.e. in classical seasonal sectors – and that is where we are more likely to think about seasonal extension models and actually implement them – but that 41 per cent of workers with recruitment commitments come from other sectors, even from the public service sector – I am once again of course of an opinion with you – and this will also be shown and analysed. [[Abg. Conspicuous:... otherwise not traceable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Public service!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 326,000 unemployed – 326,000 too much! And if you're talking about job-seeking people, you can also include those who are in training, but then it's a command of fairness and honesty to say: The 113 000 people with arrogance are looking for everything, just no work. This must also be said, and I would have expected this to be one of Europe's leading social partners in explaining this urgent question in the context of the special meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5669	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5690	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Austria's growth is systematically above the European average: From 2002 to 2006, Austria will grow by around 1.25 percentage points faster than the EU-15 average. Ladies and gentlemen! This proves that this Federal Government has done excellent work! And compared to Germany, Austria has even achieved a growth advantage of more than 10 percentage points since the German unification! In monetary terms, all of us in Austria have achieved a growth advantage over Germany, which means that over the last 15 years, the total number of employees in Austria has reached an average of more than €50,000 in income per head. Rarely can it be so impressive that higher economic growth directly represents more income and more prosperity. Employment has also increased fourfold in Austria compared to Germany since 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! While the chosen red-green government in Germany has destroyed 1 000 jobs per day, the Austrian government is creating tax reform, economic packages and so on 100 jobs per day – because this government is doing good work, Mr Oellinger, because this government has the courage to do these tax reforms, has on these growth packages, and is thus creating employment in Austria, because it is undertaking appropriate infrastructure investments, for example, in the so important broadband technology, which is extremely important for rural areas, so that we can make the economic location attractive there too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oils: But only on paper! Just on paper!]] As Mrs Bures here said that she has no understanding at all that the unemployment rate is a little higher in winter, I tell you – I am also responsible for the FHP, for this value chain of forest-wood paper industry –: Ask the forest workers, the saw workers, if it's in this chilling cold, in these snows that are currently in place, funny to go into the forest! It is forced there because now too little wood is coming in, the production is being reduced, and as a result there are automatically fewer jobs available in the short term. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: Whoever claims that the weather does not matter, and who makes the Federal Government responsible for the weather, has no idea! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry and Silhavy.]] In conclusion: Mr Van der Bellen, I am in many parts of your opinion on issues relating to biomass and eco-energy, but not on what you have said today, namely that we have done less. Do you know what I'd rather have been? – If you had once taken a clear position on the position of SPÖ as regards the eco electricity law, that is to say, support CHP installations funded by gas in the Eco electricity Act. [[Abg. Sburny: Do we have eh!]] Unfortunately, I have never heard of you, because the SPÖ's position on biomass is also clear to us: [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Read the APA!]] These are more dependent on the oil sheikh than on the Austrian farmers and the Austrian energy producers who deal with biomass! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In conclusion: We know your job policy, especially for rural areas. Especially the support for rural development, which German Chancellor Schüssel has now secured in Brussels together with Minister Pröll, wanted to cut down 50 percent with Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen! This would have put you at risk of 530 000 jobs in Austria. That is why I say quite openly to you: We will continue to put Austria's future in the hands of our Federal Chancellor Schüssel and his team in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5780	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5801	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would really like to see more serious about this issue, the situation on the labour market. It is not understandable to me because the facts and figures on the labour market situation have been known for some time now why this urgent request is being made. I've been thinking about it. Although these figures were already known, why was it important in the last week to talk about the safety of the “Saliera ”? I expected that during the Vienna holiday week, for example, a special meeting will be scheduled if the topic is so urgent. It was obviously not, and you can also look back and see when last time a special meeting took place in the Vienna holiday week: There were always other holiday weeks. - So much for urgency. [[Abg. Silhavy: But this has been decided in the Presidential!]] I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, that you compare the same thing with the same thing – and not apples with pears, as you do, for example, in the absolute number of unemployment: In the 1990s, it was always common to reduce the number of unemployed to those in training; since you are in opposition, this has not happened from your side and also medially. I do not wish we were hiding unemployed in training. The trainings make sense and ultimately ensure that more people return to employment. But let's compare the same thing with the same thing! In your urgent request, you find that economic growth of 2.5 to 3 percent would be necessary to reduce unemployment accordingly. They could have taken the time to realize, for example, that the number, this threshold, from which unemployment is reduced, is currently 4 percent in Austria, 3.4 percent in the Federal Republic of Germany, and could be concerned about how we can reduce this threshold again, which mechanisms are responsible for it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have been given the impression that you would like to see part-time workers – and I expressly say that there are many people, in particular female citizens, who are concerned about being able to work part-time – as part-time unemployed people and who would still be included in the statistics of the unemployed. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. You have risen to point out changes only in the relation; also mention the absolute numbers! These are evidence that this Federal Government has worked wisely, has pursued a reasonable labour market and economic policy, otherwise it would not be possible for us to be in the forefront of the European Union, namely the low level of unemployment. The fact that the Federal Government has done everything proves the economic packages, which proves the growth and employment packages. And the fact that the social idea has not been missed in Austria shows that the social rate has increased by around 1 percent compared to 1999. In Austria it is also well ordered with the social warmth! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5841	Mrs Sburny's next speech. Madam President, you have chosen 5 minutes of speaking time; the entire club has only 7 minutes of remaining speaking time. [[Abg. Sburny: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Then put it on me for 4 minutes!]] - Good, 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5878	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! I admit that it is a challenge to create new jobs in times like these, but the seriousness with which Mr Grillitsch comes to the speaker's desk here, claiming that the government is creating 100 jobs a day, I can resist a similar seriality: If you calculate what you are saying, that is, in six years' time, you will get 216,000 jobs in black-blue or blue-black government. If you now assume that you have children's benefits in these numbers – that's about 140 000 – and the civilians are involved – that's about 50,000 in six years, you get 190 000. – These are just once the two large groups you mixed in there. – That is to say, there are still 26 000 jobs that you have actually created in a different way, perhaps through parts of full-time jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Cumulated! Cumulated!]] I'll tell you something. With the eco-energy we will be able to do this in three years' time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to stay on this subject because you have mentioned this once again: You have in 2003 – respect! – created an eco electricity law that was certainly a progress. In 2004, when you saw that it was successful, you started to disassemble it again. And now, in autumn 2005, you have actually succeeded in persuading the SPÖ – which in 2004 has still said it will never be able to support it – to join you in the committee. They are on it and on it, one of the most successful laws – which has also brought jobs! - kill again. And that's what you call positive labour market policy?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I really don't understand this, because if you look at it purely from the economic point of view – I am not talking about climate protection now, not about the dependence on oil, but only about jobs – as this industry has developed, you can see that the eco-energy industry, unlike many other industries, is the only one that has annual growth rates of more than 10 percent – and that, although always claimed that only the telecom sector will do so. Contaminate: The eco-energy industry has done this! You say yes, it is. But why do you end up with the novelle? They are going through a cut here that will significantly impede this growth sector in its economic development. Mr Scheibner said earlier that it is a question of supporting businesses to also exist internationally, to create framework conditions so that our businesses can set foot internationally. - That's exactly what happened: With this eco electricity law, you have taken an important step towards this! I only mention two examples – you certainly know many others yourself –: The company Fronius in Upper Austria, producer of inverters in the solar field, is the world market leader – that is what you always want! –, 80 percent export-oriented. And do you know what you're doing to them? – With this new eco electricity law novelle, you take planning security and you are not sure whether the whole industry will survive, as well as in Güssing, where a competence center for biomass will be created with additional 400 jobs and where you will not know if the next year will all be available. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who told you that?]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is a nonsense! That's not true!]] So you won't make any security in the industry! In this way, they create uncertainty and prevent thousands of jobs from being created in this area over the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5965	Mrs Silhavy's next speech. Total residence time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5986	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dealing with the issue of unemployment, which has been expressed here by some of the representatives of the government groups, is deeply affected. But even more shocking was the treatment of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with the issue of unemployment when he went out today by emphasizing the level of the social rate of 29.4 percent as positive, although he knew quite well that it was only because of rising unemployment. They have been calling it a “armed fight” since 2000, but in reality poverty has been rising since 2000! If more than a million people are at risk of poverty in a rich country like Austria, you should not be talking about successful politics here, ladies and gentlemen. This is a policy of failure and not of success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just recorded very persistent minus temperatures in this country: It is shocking that despite this poverty, which you are also responsible for, you have not even granted the poorest of the poor a federal heating aid. [[Abg. Murauer:... judge by the Burgenland!]] It is really very sad and it speaks of the social cold that prevails in this House on the right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at ÖVP:Vienna: 50 €]] [[Abg. Friend: Upper Austria: 150!]] The Federal Chancellor also referred to social assistance, which he considered too little. Why could it not be raised better? – Because more and more people get out of unemployment into social assistance because unemployment insurance benefits are not sufficient for normal living! – That’s embarrassing, for that you should get yourself, and that’s a shame for Austria! It's particularly cold, but you're dealing with women. Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, praised himself so much that he had so great new ideas. – An idea is obviously the service check: under the scarcity! The second idea is the combination wage: less than 1 000 € income! – These are your “forward-looking” ideas for people, for women in Austria?- Oh, my God! – We “thank” for it, and the people will also “thank” for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to address the topic of kindergartens or flexible childcare. We have been talking about this so often here in this House. You are not even ready to discuss it. They say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This could cost a bit, and you might have to be more flexible – perhaps the economy will also be more flexible, not just the workers. So there is not even a discussion about it – nothing! Since you accuse us of the SPÖ today that we do not have any new ideas, I will hold you against: I have not heard anything about what is actually talking about making a new edition of action 8000, why you can't do that! – No speaker, no speaker, no member of the government has responded. There are analyses that say this action was successful. In any case, our policy was successful – in contrast to yours. That is why a change is urgently necessary for people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6081	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. Madam honourable Member, you have chosen 3 minutes of welcome; your club's total residence time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6103	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's the same thing as before: We certainly don't do a job with ills and bad luck. Work only creates who works, and we do! I would like to thank Mr Riepl for his reference and now bring in the corrected motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which one?]] [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wittauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2006, around 1 billion – or 133 percent – are used more in the fight against unemployment than in 1999. Commissioner Špindla has referred to Austria and Denmark as the two most dynamic labour markets. [[Call the SPÖ:Špidla!]] There you're glad – with us you're sorry. But that's what your SPÖ policy is: Many words, few deeds. At the time when it was about the preservation of Austria Frost, the red mayor had to be brought up by the head of state to save these jobs! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: With this zigzag course, which you have lived in recent years, I can already understand our head of state when he said that Alfred Gusenbauer is still on his way to the government to complete many years of teaching – for in this position a master is asked, and we have this with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6207	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mrs Mikesch has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6376	Next, Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 3 minutes; Total remaining time of the liberal club: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6398	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the point made by Klubobmann. Van der Bellen: If in this House, George Bush, the American president, he is a progressive alternative energy politician, then he has either great courage, or – if I said the next, I would probably get an order call. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You didn't listen! – That doesn't surprise me anyway! You never listen!]] So if Member Van der Bellen says: George Bush calls for a third of the resources for alternative energies or an increase in resources for alternative energies, I ask you, honourable Member: Of what? [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Watch out!]] America is certainly not the country that uses or promotes alternative energies, but America is the country that is responsible for most of the pollutants and is irresponsibly dealing with the environment in the global situation. I do not want to mention the Kyoto targets, even those of the Americans have given up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But probably the Greens lack ideas so that they already have to quote America or the American President here in the House in this regard. I can tell you: I have never heard of a positive environmental policy from there! We in Austria are top-ranking in environmental policy, whether it be for farmers, or for alternative energies. We are top riders in promotions. In this respect, we have higher expenditure per capita than Germany, we promote alternative energy far more. If Mrs Sburny talks about it, she should take this to heart: Red-Green has not been able to spend more on alternative energies in Austria per capita! There's something else to add: If Mr Gusenbauer speaks about how bad we are here in Austria, I say: Let us look at the facts! The number of unemployed is too high with 326,000 – we do not need to talk about it at all. But we are in fifth place with 5.2 percent, Germany is 9.6 percent after Red-Green. And if I look at Germany, I mean that we can be happy that we have made an economic policy with which we have decoupled ourselves from Germany. We had an export offensive in the East with an increase of 50 percent within the last six years. By decoupling from the dependence on Germany, we are in a better situation today, also concerning the unemployed. If you compare the total of the unemployed with the number of 113,137 persons who have employment guarantees, then the figure is 34.6 percent, and that is great, because this shows that the percentage is reduced again. I would like to say something about agriculture and forestry: I know, and many in this House also know how hard we are currently working in the woods. And that's why I'm telling you: If you support the policy of this government, we will continue to be able to look positively into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6459	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Total residence time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6481	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Neudeck: But you don't have a lot of speaking time anymore!]] The Federal Chancellor meant that we should present new ideas. I would like to draw your attention to this: In every contribution to the debate, we bring new proposals and also good proposals, and we always rely on studies and expertise that act on how jobs can be created and how employment can be driven forward. [[Abg. Steibl: But you do not believe that!]] Mr Federal Minister, we have often discussed thermal building renovation in the Building Committee. You mentioned it again today. But let's take a look at this very concretely! – The Wifo believes that an increase in investment in thermal renovations amounting to 200 million from existing housing support per year brings more 11 000 jobs and supports small and medium-sized enterprises. Why Make You don't? Why don't you go to the federal states? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Why don't you force more investment in thermal rehabilitation? This is a proven idea, which is a part of the idea to be re-quoted, and that really brings us forward, saves energy, reduces operating costs, saves people heating costs, creates employment and also brings impulses for biomass. There are very many job opportunities in this area. But you take this far too little! It's a floskel for you! I'm just calling the ID. How does it look with the energy IDs? According to the EU, we must be able to present them in 2006. But what do we have in Austria so far? Not even a 15a agreement yet! That's disgraceful, Minister. Mr Grillitsch, you have spoken about the rural area and the broadband offensive. – Look It's what you're looking at. The RTR has developed a master plan with over 42 proposals on how to really create and secure broadband infrastructure and jobs in rural areas. And what happened to it? – He's on his way, he's rotting, he's going to be inaccurate! And why? Because Mr Bundeskanzler or you, Mr State Secretary, are unable to install a staff station, to make progress on the proposals of the Wifo in accordance with the agreed procedure, and now really not only take money into your hands, but to coordinate and offer wide-ranging broadband! That's your manko! That's your deficit! This is our new idea as to which we have made proposals, but where nothing goes on with you. The last example: Road construction and infrastructure: The Wifo says: 1 billion € are equal to 10 686 jobs in road construction. However, the Wifo also says that the same billions are equal to 18,000 jobs on the rails. That's almost twice as much! Why do we no longer invest in rail, in better public transport, in quality offers, and why do we no longer create jobs here? It would be 172 000 jobs in the public transport sector, says VCÖ. – This would be our ideas in addition to increased women’s and young people’s offensives towards jobs. More eco-creating work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6537	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. Total residence time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6558	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ==References====External links== January is Vienna's problem is the low qualification of job seekers. – Sunbaths in the Wiener Burggarten, card games, museum visits, beach volleyball games, as offered by the AMS Vienna, may have a communication-promoting but certainly no qualifying component. Measures such as those that software trainers have to receive computer courses and staff consultants have to undergo an application training are more likely to be covered by the chapter “Number-Beautifuls”. However, this Vienna path is nothing new: demand a lot of power and then let things run their course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer did not take any more full-bodied action: “Austria’s youth deserves perspectives. Half of youth unemployment” – this is your latest message. I can only say: A great approach! So leave immediately from the outset half of the unemployed young people in the rain, and the other half qualify with sunbathing! The latest scandal in Vienna, however, is that the AMS Vienna advises young people in the direction of breaking off the tenth school level, in which they are currently reclaiming the primary school and attending an AMS course for which it pays 130 € and attracts them. However, these poor young people are unable to catch up and acquire a high school degree. This is a double track which costs a lot and only harms young people. This is a scandal in Vienna. I am more satisfied with the way of the Federal Government, whose goal is: Full employment. We're on the right path! – You cannot create a single job at all with your lukewarm request!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6603	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Total residence time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6625	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A special meeting was convened for today, at the SPÖ's request, on the subject of "Record unemployment in Austria". This issue is certainly worth a special meeting – but not if you deal with this issue just like you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Mrs Silhavy said here: Our government was successful. On that I ask the question: Then why was she chosen? So you can't have been that successful! Some examples have already been mentioned to you today, why you have not been so successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Getting Now You're right, Colleagues of the SPÖ! My mother used to say: In the evening the lazy ones will be diligent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, after this special meeting we will have as many unemployed as before this meeting. But I'm sure: Of this opposition, these unemployed are more disappointed than before.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6682	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the self-employed proposal 786/A (E) by Mrs Vergestnich, colleagues and colleagues on record unemployment in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Riepl, colleagues, on the reduction of teacher unemployment by reducing the number of students at school. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mikesch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues and colleagues on measures taken by the Federal Government for growth and employment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and this motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. (E 171.) [[17:51:21]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6749	We now come to the request of the honourable Member. Molterer, ladies and gentlemen, the Transport Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the German Federal Council of 9 December 1990. of 25 February 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 25 February 2006 January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law 9. FSG-Novelle, 1302 of the supplements, a period of until 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Missethon. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6786	Madam President. High house! We led a very lively debate to the driving licence law before Christmas. The central point of this debate was that we want to introduce a 180 km/h lid for the withdrawal of the driving licence. The reason for this was a gap in the driving licence law and in the road traffic regulations. The rules on road transport now allow the authorities to partially increase the maximum speed. That's why we might be over this 180 km/h, and that's why it's important that we get a border here. That means we're fixing a law to prevent lawning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is important, and we do not let it stop, and that is why we are also putting forward today's deadline proposal. Of course, today we will also be discussing the 160 km/h, but I have already mentioned in the last debate that the 130 km/h maximum speed we currently have on the motorways was introduced in the 1970s. They will remember that in the 1970s we still had the famous “guest workers’ route” in Styria, and there was still the Neukkner Allee on the route to Vienna. That is why I say this at the outset, because we see the enormous development of road transport in Austria, first of all by the motorways themselves: The motorways as carriers of transport have become safer. Incredibly many transport safety measures have been put in place, the motorways have become wider, many of the road transport areas, which have been one of the main drivers of heavy road accidents, have been almost abolished. We have invested a lot in the area of tunnel safety. Secondly, completely new technologies have been developed. I am now thinking of the area of transport control systems. Today, for example, the Section Control is in use. There are flexible speed limits. There are also information systems on the nature of the roads and on the weather conditions. In addition, there has been enormous efforts in connection with the training of road users themselves. There is the multi-phase driving licence, there is also the pre-mark system, driving with light a day, and there is now also the prescribed warning vest. Finally, the cars have also developed into high-tech products. Think back, then there were no airbags, no electronic brake systems and no anti-lock systems. This means that today's situation is no longer comparable to the situation in the 1970s. The accident statistics confirm the trend towards greater road safety. In 1999 we had 1 079 traffic fatalities in Austria, and in 2005 we had 764 traffic fatalities. Every road fatality is too much, but there is clear evidence that many of the measures that the Federal Government has taken are really taking. Transport safety is not only an issue that we are constantly dealing with here in Parliament, but transport safety also has a special role in European transport policy, in particular in the first half of the year. Now to this test area in Carinthia. I'm going to tell you that it's important for us that... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Mr Puswald, Carinthia is good, and we are also looking at it. That's why we carry out tests in a speed corridor from 80 km/h to 160 km/h. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Mr Puswald! I assume that you also have a car and drive on the motorway, and like everyone on the motorway at about 130 km/h, you are amazed how often you are overtaken. [[Abg. Neudeck: In both directions?]] Not in both directions, but in one direction! This means that there are now a lot of road users who simply and simply drive faster. My personal assessment as a traffic participant is that those who are less dangerous in beautiful weather and with little Transport 160 km/h, as those driving in rain, fog or snowfall 130 km/h. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I believe that this test is justified, and I draw up the thesis that it is likely to slow down on average than on other motorway sections. Our questions within the framework of this test are: How does this speed corridor affect road safety from 80 km/h to 160 km/h? How does this affect the environment? And: How does this affect traffic flow? Conclusion: With this deadline proposal, we will first ensure that the drivers do not drive faster than 180 km/h. Secondly, we will quietly analyse the results of this test and then determine the further steps. [[Intervocations with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Rot-Grün! We will make a judgment, but no prejudice! Thirdly, transport safety is a top priority for us. We're not going to be bothered by you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6858	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the four speakers who are now following should not exceed 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6883	Madam President. High house! The opposition of the Federal Council, which we are dealing with today, is a smooth issue error. If you read the explanatory statement, you can see that this is not concerned at all with the content of the current driving licence novices. § 7 para. 3 C. 4 of the driving licence law has a gap which is now closed. It has not been observed that in § 43 para. 4 of road transport There is the possibility that the Authority can increase the generally permitted maximum speeds, namely the famous 50 km/h, 100 km/h and 130 km/h, if there are no concerns about road safety. If you get over 130 km/h, it makes sense to catch a general maximum speed. For example, I imagined that there would be a green transport minister in Austria, who allowed him on motorways on individual routes 180 km/h. Then what? – Then you should drive 230 km/h. But this is a bit much, and that is why this limit should be drawn so that such irresponsible drivers are removed from the driving licence at a lower pace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] Voices This is a decision which is consistent with road safety and an irresponsible lawn. But let us look where it is not so consistent, namely, Vienna. There is a super city councillor for the environment and apparently also for transport: our former colleague Mag. Ulrike Sima. So far, speed 60 was useful in the west, speed 70 at the south entrance, and in the east, outside the cultivated area, even speed 100, as on free land roads, was planned. But now, on the basis of the fine dust load, driving is punished at speeds above 50 km/h. This results in several hundred thousand euros that need to be spent on the new traffic lights. ÖAMTC and ARBÖ are storming together. Tens of thousands of drivers send mail, call and fax. But above all: Everyone is driving as before – as the measurements have shown – because these measures are not transparent. Then, of course, Michael Häupl pulls the emergency brake, commissioned the actually competent city councillor Schicker with a damage limitation. First of all, two years of looking at it, then being evaluated. However, the period has proved to be too long. The measures will then be partially withdrawn. One hears, some parts of the Vienna SPÖ are supposed to be happy that the ambitious Ulrike fell so on the nose. In any case, there has been nothing except fees for taxpayers. The most important thing is that Ulrike Sima is in the newspaper, making life difficult for drivers. High house! We have a much clearer line on the part of the government in transport policy, which has already been mentioned: Priority for road safety, without humbling the drivers. Voices Therefore, please submit to the deadline application so that the existing gap in the driving licence law can be closed as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6940	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6961	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not agree to the deadline request, and I will also justify it. [[Abg. Schöls: But that surprises us!]] It was already significant how the ÖVP has now tried to pray this whole situation in health, because it was not the idea of the ÖVP to take up this issue, but the idea of Mr Gorbach's minister to be able to drive through certain motorway routes faster than at 130 km/h, as before. And so it has come about that you try to explain this on the part of the government parties with all possible reasons. Mr Regler has even taken Vienna as a crutch, where you move at speeds in a completely different safety area than at 160 km/h or 180 km/h. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that the National Council, if the Bundesrat objects in this matter, once again passes over the Chamber of State through the Chamber of State and even tries to set a deadline until 24. On February 1st, one can drive a maximum of 180 km/h in Austria, which is still completely unnecessary because the current legal situation is clear: On motorways 130 km/h are allowed. This limit may be exceeded up to 50 km/h. If you drive even faster, the driver's license is gone. You have a problem now, because Mr Gorbach is preoccupied with his 160 km/h. Then, at some point, you felt that this was not going to happen, and in the current legal situation, the driver's license would not then be removed at a speed of 180 km/h, but only at more than 210 km/h, and therefore you have to pull the emergency brake! [[Abg. May. Controller: That's it! Come with me!]] I think it is a bit ridiculous, as the ÖVP is trying to argue. I wonder why a test track is set up! Tested speeds are enough, ladies and gentlemen! What do you want to test? Human experiment? Do you want to test – Mr Missethon, because you mentioned the airbags – how the airbags behave when you have accidents? Is it nice to test that, ladies and gentlemen? – I would be a little more careful at your point of argument. Or do you want to reinvent that much more fine dust is produced at 160 km/h than at 130 km/h? Or do you want to test that there are less or more CO2 at 160 km/h? – I don't think these are testing options, all that's known. As far as noise is concerned, everything is clear: They obviously want it louder on the motorways, because a passenger car driving 160 km/h produces twice as much noise as a passenger car driving 130 km/h. You have to consider that too! Why is that supposed to be? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Is this the Lord who is for 150?]] With regard to the risk of accidents: Yes, thank God the number of fatal traffic accidents has fallen somewhat! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr Eder, did you not say you can imagine 150 in an interview in Styria?]] But when fatal road accidents occur, 36 percent shows that the driving speed is the cause of fatal traffic accidents. That is, if you drive quickly, the probability of having a fatal accident or an accident with cause of death is much greater than if you drive slower. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] – I find it significant that the BZÖ colleagues find this very funny and laugh very much about the statements. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: That's ridiculous!]] In addition, we have said that this is possible for three-track motorways. That was what Mr Gorbach originally wanted. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What difference is that?]] – This is an essential difference, and refers to certain transport conditions! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: During the noise?]] Minister Gorbach also wanted to have this with three-track motorways, but he did not find a head of state, colleague, in whose federal state are three-track motorways that would have allowed it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's not true!]] And then, in his distress – as always – he went to his country captain, Haider, who said: That's what we're doing! We have a route, now we have it two-tracked, and there we can race accordingly. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It breaks down!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will certainly not agree to the deadline. We will also not agree to the 160 km/h test track because this 160 km/h does not need to be tested. I think it would be really good for the matter and you would be well advised, we would leave the driving licence law and the road traffic regulations in this area as we are used to. In reality, there are significant transport politicians – including the ÖVP – who have this opinion. But you're making a kneefall here in front of Minister Gorbach, and I think this kneefall is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7118	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7139	Madam President. High house! With the opposition of the Federal Council to the driving licence law, once again a proof of non-responsible opposition policy was given. Everyone knows very well that what you want to decide is apparently a higher limit than 180 km/h, namely 210 km/h! 160 plus 50 result in 210! For the argument of Mr Eder in the National Council, I still had an understanding when he reasoned: We are at the rate of 160, and therefore we do not want to go along with the limit of 180 km/h. But that we need a cover is understandable to everyone. That the Federal Council then took advantage of this and forced us to make a deadline request with 24. Deciding on February to protect the people from race is the biggest thing! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I'm clear that you're laughing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So if we drive 210 km/h or more on our motorways, then finally the Social Democrats and the Greens are responsible for it. The ladies and gentlemen in the gallery should know that, and also the people outside! [[Abg. Eder: Up there on the gallery?]] I look at how you will then vote against it again, because in this case it means: for 210 km/h. That's clear. If you say about the opposition being about 160 km/h, I see that, I accept that as your opinion, however: Until recently, I did not know that Mr Eder had asked for 150 km/h in Styria. [[Abg. Eder: Not in Styria!]] That's a change of mind! Perhaps, Mr. Eder, the SPÖ in your club meeting has so flawed you that you can no longer keep the claim 150 km/h in Austria. What comes to us is it is so that we have required these 160 km/h for selected test routes – at best weather conditions, at best driving conditions – so that you can see all of this on these special routes. Now I ask you from the opposition parties whether it is not possible to discuss this test result with experts and here in the House and then to make a joint decision on whether to drive it well or not. However, it must be expected to see what the test results look like before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Mr Eder, what is going on with this particular route in Carinthia is already 75 per cent of all handlebars over 160 km/h; this is what the studies have shown! [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is an absolute nonsense!]] – You need to keep an eye on the statistics! – That was also the reason why this route was selected in Carinthia. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] To this future test track, but now too fast: That is where we make a stricter regulation, i.e. if the speed limit of the licence is exceeded, it is immediately gone. I emphasize: At 160 km/h only in good conditions can be driven. That is, if bad weather prevails, the speed must be reduced anyway. If there is a lot of traffic on this route and there is bad weather, for example, you can only drive at 80 km/h anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – You drive more by train, I already see it, but for the commuters in Styria, it may be a way to get from A to B faster. But, as I said, The weather conditions must be appropriate. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Since you're so upset, I can only say: That's where the content has to be very good! I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that under Transport Minister Gorbach – taken over in 2000, freedom of movement, then BZÖ policy – the number of fatalities could be reduced from 1079 to 764, i.e. by 29.2 percent. This Minister of Transport must therefore be designated as Minister of Transport Safety; Vice chancellor Gorbach is really not someone who would not have written the subject of road safety into the main book. We have done many things to increase road safety; just a few examples: Primary system, driving with light a day, multi-phase driving licence and so on. Therefore, I can only really wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you do not want to acknowledge all the successes that have been and are being achieved under a transport minister Gorbach. All of this is based on clear facts, all of which can be clearly demonstrated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would ask you once again, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition parties, to stand up for road safety here in the House and to agree to this 180 km/h limit, because that is really important! If in the future there should perhaps be a social-democratic transport minister once again – which we do not hope – and if this one may also have as positive ideas as we do, then we could discuss whether its proposals are good or bad after a test phase in the committee or in the House. In conclusion: If the tests show that this would not be a positive measure on other routes, then of course we would not agree to this either.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7267	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7288	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, I think, we already have the fourth round of discussions on the absurd 160 km/h presentation of Mr Gorbach. - That's the first one. This deadline will, however, prevent a much more important deadline, namely to maintain strict standards in Europe and Austria in the Genetic Engineering Act. We would have liked to discuss this here and today; However, you have prevented this from applying for your deadline. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true!]] Secondly, The Federal Council as the Chamber of the Federal States is primarily articulated by the desire of the majority of the national leaders – and most national leaders are massively opposed to such tests being carried out at a pace of 160 km/h. There are infinity of expertise – I think I have told you three, four or five times – there are technical statements in which the various aspects in this context are highlighted over and over again, just so that at the pace of 160 traffic safety is reduced, but the environmental impact is also increased. In addition, I would like to inform you of the comments of another expert, namely those of university professor Ralf Risser, who fears that this will make the general trend around him even faster, especially on motorway exits and federal roads, because, according to Professor Risser, you are used to speed 160 on the basis of these test tests and then you can slow down to 130 km/h or 100 km/h psychologically more difficult, as you feel you are driving far too slowly. This additional expert opinion, ladies and gentlemen, strengthens us in our rejection of this test. Today's bill, for which you want to decide on a deadline, is based only on your attempt at speed 160. We do not need to change the driving licence law because we want the speed limit on motorways to remain at 130 km/h! This makes the limit clear and clearly defined in terms of road safety, liquids, the environment and cetera, and therefore for us this discussion is completely unnecessary when setting deadlines. On the other hand, the general discussion on road safety does not seem unnecessary in view of the fact that the discussion is constantly being guided much too strongly towards speed factors. In Austria, as far as road safety is concerned, it is not sufficiently clear that fast driving – no matter if this is 50 km/h or 190 km/h at best – is a principle to reject this excess speed and, unfortunately, is always a cause for increased accident. What you have said today, Mr Missethon, is that we do not want to drive faster than 180 km/h, does reveal itself. There are not only the tests at 160 km/h, you do not want to drive faster than 180 km/h! I mean, there's no limit up there, thanks to the new technology you keep running in your mouth. For us it's called stone and clear: 130 are supposed to stay 130. [[Abg. Neudeck: 130 remains eh 130!]] Think of it as economic! They always act as the “Volkswirtschafts party” and as the party that knows the economy behind them. Economically, experts have said this over and over again, Speed 110 is actually the most efficient. But you are making a discussion about 160 km/h, just because you want to vote for it and just because you want to stand in the media with some nonsense! We repeat our rejection of this advance, and that is true today. That is why we do not agree with your deadline and hope for a certain insight that may still make itself broad. I have now read, Minister Gorbach wants to test in Styria too! He doesn't seem to be enough for a test track. I appeal to the reason of the Styrian politicians to stay hard and to those of the politicians in Lower Austria. Without the consent of the corresponding country, Tempo 160 cannot be tested, and that is reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7343	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Molterer, Scheibner, Colleagues, the Transport Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the Federal Council of 9 December 1990. of 25 February 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 25 February 2006 January 2006 concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law 9. FSG-Novelle, 1302 of the supplements, a period of until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and this request is therefore accepted. [[18:18:46]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7379	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 717/A (E) concerning national measures to protect against genetically modified organisms – GMOs for a period of up to 27. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, and this request is therefore rejected. [[18:20:02]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7409	We are now negotiating the request made by Members of Parliament to set up an investigation committee on the implementation of the chip card project (e-card). This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7511	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7538	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know it is an unfavourable time to discuss such things with a certain attention. I'm still asking you to pay attention. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Cap didn't want that...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You will, I suppose, not give your consent to the request, but if not today, perhaps next time. We have said it to you today, at least, why this Committee of Inquiry is necessary! I am beginning with the fact that the Chip Card project, when it was supposed to be launched in 1996, was enthusiastically voted by representatives of the Socialist Group, the ÖVP and the Liberal Group, at that time with the addition: No additional costs shall be borne by the insured. Of course, you can get suffocated there: What does “additional costs ” mean if one does not count the costs at all? In 1998, the Chip-Card project had the first cost estimate, at which time it amounted to € 58 million. In 2001, there was the next cost estimate, which was €78 million. In 2003/2004 there was the third cost estimate – since a project chip card had already been launched and has just been sunk again, the first order EDS/ORGA –, at that time it was counted with €92 million. In 2004 there was the first time – you have to imagine this: for the first time! – a cost planning by the main association. They marched into the thing and said: Wish how much it costs, anything will cost, so there is no extra cost! What would you be able to calculate any additional costs? In 2004, after the then Minister of the Social Affairs has been given the lead, it was assumed that there is no cost planning for the Chip Card project at all. At that time, there was the first and still binding cost estimate of the main association, which is now € 116 million. That means, compared to the beginning with €57 million, a smooth doubling has come about! Not enough with it: The Court of Auditors – he has reviewed the matter – expects further increasing costs; it has finally counted them at € 128 million. 128 million € compared to 57 million €! However, this is still not the end of the flag rod, but we can prepare in the next few weeks for another, the third Court of Auditors report. I am quite sure that this third Court of Auditors report will no longer include the € 128 million from the last Court of Auditors estimate, but will go beyond that. Well, you can still say that the cost increase alone is no reason for us. After all, and I even agree with you, the project Chip-Card – I say it carefully – seems to be on the way. It seems to have been set up, because it is not yet finished, Mr Scheibner, it is not yet finished. Once, apart from the “children’s diseases”, we wish it worked, because the whole thing cost relatively much money. Ladies and gentlemen! But now it would be important to see what the money was spent on. And here it is interesting to read or understand how the project was done. By the year 2003, EDS/ORGA has received and operated the contract, but then it has already been seen that the EDS/ORGA project fails. It has also failed and been made out of the world with payment of money from EDS/ORGA, and then the project has been re-allocated in six subcontracts. Now, knowing the structure of the main association and the political decision-makers, it is already a great risk of handing over to them six sub-projects for support, because they are obviously already having difficulties managing and running a single project. This was awarded in six subprojects, and what I am talking about here is actually only the subproject 1, the first project that was awarded. It was advertised in the course of 2003, and then several offers came in, which differed considerably in prices: between €60 million and €150 million. Well, what was the cause? – Inaccurate tender documents from the main association or the SVChip operating and construction company, which was the actual client, and high payment fees that were required. [[Abg. Neudeck: They all know that? They don't listen!]] Yeah, don't do that! [[Abg. Neudeck: The Group of the European People's Party does not listen!]] Yes, they already know, their own group already knows. It's just a special lecture for you. Finally – I make it shorter – the subproject 1 was awarded in December 2003 by €36.98 million. And then a legend begins. As was last mentioned by the main association, this award is an absolutely correct award; that is what the President of the main association, Mr Laminger, says. There has been no price agreement, it has always been reported correctly to the Court of Auditors and it is absurd to call an agreement between a client and one of the tenderers a price agreement, says Mr Laminger. What happened? – The value of the offer was, as one now knows according to Siemens, around €30 million; but the project was awarded by €37 million. Passing is as follows: On the last day before the contract was awarded, some top officials of the main association meet with representatives of Siemens – but not with those responsible for the technology – and there is an open talk about it: If this order is offered below €38 million, Siemens will receive the project, although at that time another candidate was in the game. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No one's claping! He's been talking for 10 minutes, but no one's talking!]] Interesting, Mr Scheuch! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Less applause is the norm, but you have understood what it is all about. It is crucial that this project was awarded by €37 million, although Siemens himself says: We have never offered below €30 million. But Siemens doesn't say: A price of €37 million was the only price to be achieved. The main association itself calls it absurd and simply lied in its opinion in January that bidders are available at an amount of € 30 million. On the same day there is an issue of Siemens, which reads: We did not offer below 30 million €. But Siemens does not exclude accepting the order by €30 million. The main association says: That's absurd. – What is right, ladies and gentlemen? I will bring you a second point – a third in addition to the general cost problem. The Court of Auditors also deals with the specific problems arising under the external advisory agreements, and he says: One of the consultants has received a total fee of 47 600 € until 2004. This was clearly communicated to the Court of Auditors by the main association. ==References====External links==* Official website Years of this advisor were handed over 63 360 € – not 47 000 € but 63 000 €! In the Board of Directors of the Main Association, the Managing Director Schörghofer reports that fees amounting to € 120 000 were paid. The main association now says in January in an OTS broadcast: Honors of €92 000 have been paid. He who complains about his own fee says in the complaint: I paid €120 000. Now I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: If evidence has been submitted to the Court of Auditors about fees of €47 000, why can the one who sues higher fees claim that only €120 000 have been paid? He wants more! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a huge problem, because it is obvious that the Court of Auditors has not received any correct documents. It is quite obvious that there was a meeting shortly before the offer was made, in which leading representatives of the main association, together with representatives of Siemens, met a price agreement at an amount that could not be justified by the actual value of the offer. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is enough reason for a committee of inquiry!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7648	The speaking time of the speakers who have now spoken is 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7684	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In fact, the history of the e-card is the same as it has now explained to Mr Oellinger, but the beginning was not 1996 but 1993. The chip card introduction was generally welcomed, but nothing was done about this under the leadership of socialist Social and Health Ministers. With the beginning of 2000/2001, the project was driven forward vigorously – and ended by you as always: data protection problems; it will never come about; the complexity is too high. [[Abg. Gradwell: From you...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] In 2003, it became necessary to carry out a re-examination, and in fact, the project that has often been promised last year, with lateness due by you, has quickly passed over the stage. [[Abg. Dr. One: That's the difference!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who was Federal Chancellor in 2003?]] 8.2 million e-cards are outside, the system is adopted by the patients because it is more insured and patient friendly. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr. Tancsits, who was Federal Chancellor in 2003?]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who was responsible at the time...?]] This is, of course, a huge cost-saving vis-à-vis the Zettel economy, which has so far ruled in the settlement departments of the health insurance companies. By the way, this also applies to the chief physician's duty, which you continue to defend in this old Schikane way, that you have sent the patients back and forth to form. That's what I'm saying: It is not the task of the opposition to recognize that. But now this project is being criticized with just too absurd arguments in detail. There it is claimed that a price negotiation between the head of the main association and a provider would be agreed upon a price – I am already referring to the word – and that is an obligation. It is usually understood by forbidden price agreements that various providers join together to serve only one price to the issuer. In reality, however, it has succeeded in falling from € 67 million to € 37 million – i.e. € 30 million in price savings! Perhaps, if one is willing, one could see the error of the 30 million who are attracted by the Commissioner of Oillingers. The advisory institute RISE, which was entrusted with it and was called in as a witness to the fact that it would not have been done with right things, notes in an issue: At no time is our knowledge an offer of €30 million or below is available. The assumption that the awarded e-card system landscape would have been available industrially at this price is not sustainable. – And continue: The good price-performance ratio of the Austrian E-Card project is transparent in international comparison. A secure, federal infrastructure has been built under the planned time and budget plan. In the case of IT projects of this scale, this is by no means the rule. It was thus established by the independent research institute: Actually, it's a show project. If something were to be checked, then the Court of Auditors would do so, as the President of the Court of Auditors clearly states, and we will then discuss it in the Court of Auditors Committee. To make a separate committee of inquiry, that is absolutely not necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7786	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Herz. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7813	Madam President. High house! If such a Court of Auditors report sees the light of the public, it is usually assessed in some way: either as a positive report or as a critical report or as a destructive report. If I may ask in the round like this: Well, how is the report on the chip card project generally assessed? [[Call the ÖVP: Positive!]] Positive? – In any case, the colleague shall: At least your coalition partner calls him “destruction. ” And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is a devastating report – this vocabulary is probably indisputable –: Management chaos, control disaster, cost and personnel explosion, unnecessary program director! And what's the woman's health minister doing? – She celebrates this as if it were a world sensation. [[Abg. May. Controller: Successful Policy!]] And Mr. Kandlhofer, the chief responsible for the debacle, repeatedly claims – contrary to the Court of Auditors’ findings – that no euro and no cent would have been “brought” unnecessarily. There is something completely different in the report. I really have to say, Mr. Kandlhofer reminds us fatally of the Art History Museum and a Mr. Seipel. In reality, Mr Kandlhofer is Mr Seizel of the main association, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This affinity between Kandlhofer and Seiel is really clear, because Seiel also said: I don't need regulations, laws and such things when I run a museum. And what does Mr. Kandlhofer say? – He cannot always judge by the Maria-Theresian law of law. Ladies and gentlemen, there is some time when legal infringements occur if this is the answer to a breach of law, to the breach of the right to award! Minister Rauch-Kallat says: € 30 million saved – a huge success! Of course, it has been called “no date” in the field of ÖVP, and it has disputed it. But the Federal Minister had a little bit of a bad luck, because it has now been admitted that this meeting was held on 11 November. It took place on December 23, 2003 and was agreed on at €37 million. This has been admitted by the head of the association Laminger. . Stop, let us look into the Court of Auditors' report and put it on page 38. ==References== The price was therefore clear on December 2003, and the Court of Auditors says: A detailed but not complete list of costs was only available at the end of February 2004. Mr Tancsits, what does that mean? – That the price has long been clear, but the cost statement has not even taken place? What is it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is a scandal!]] There is a committee of inquiry essential! This is clearly clear and objectively understandable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Sparse applause at the SPÖ!]] I'm going to give the BZÖ a little decision-making aid because I see no one there dares to go to the speaker's desk. What does your boss say to the whole thing? – I am here in blatant regulatory danger; he says: Some gentlemen have been wrongfully enriched; a plowing, bad luck and panning project; a devastating Court of Auditors report; this is money destruction; there are criminal proceedings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] . I just quoted your coalition partner here, dear Mr Murauer. They are obviously not prepared to assume political responsibility here as mandates. If illegal agreements are admitted if there is a devastating Court of Auditors report that damnes the whole thing in the ground – my Ladies and gentlemen, how long can people like Mr. Seiel, Mr. Kandlhofer, still drive Mr. Laminger's beings? - I'm afraid there's still some time left. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It will not be very long, however, up to the National Council election! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7920	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Member of the European Parliament, also for you, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7941	Madam President. It is indeed striking that the blue/orange class of Members – they are not all there at all, it is quite interesting who has left the house: the colleague from Vorarlberg... – No, no, I only interpret it because no one is talking about you. [[Abg. Scheibner: But here you are completely silent!]] – But Scheuch did talk in the APA and talked about a flop project that needs to be clarified in full. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Yes!]] – You can be helped! The application is obvious. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Well, you can keep it – the call was justified – exceptionally really undramatic and short. There were several clues here that I would like to comment briefly. There was a meeting – a meeting! – with a provider on the part of the evocative, the issuing agency – bidder agreement can't be said in any way, because the second bidder wasn't there, that's in fact another award-making accusation. It is worse, because the issuing body is now, from whatever motives it is, coming up with Siemens and “wamping up” that they could demand more money anyway, if only they were to stay under the said number – Mr Oellinger has done it. – A completely absurd process! The forecasts have reached between 25 and a maximum of 30 million, confirmed by the supplier. They are then invited, and they are offered: As long as you stay under 37, it fits anyway, while the second company is left unclear that such agreements are at all still taking place. They would indeed be justified in the course of a two-stage award procedure, but in the moment when one remains outside and the other is brought into existence, they naturally committed the A- and O-errors of the contract law by creating inequality in the conditions, and that smells like heaven! And that's also the reason why they don't talk and the other ones are swirling around more or less disorientated. You know exactly what's getting together! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What I find remarkable is that, after these so-called agreements – by the way, for good reason, “no-dates” – you call it “no-dates”; but so it happens with some “no-dates” like “non-papers”: sometimes they are just copied or appear – now they have been caught up in a somewhat helpless escape. “Bloed” is also the indication of that, I say now, supposed – or actual – deputies in this whole matter that the whole has taken place in ÖVP rooms. – I think you will have to look more closely at this in your own interest and outline your line of flight a little more precisely, because otherwise you will be even more edified. In my opinion, this is a significant indication when the speaker of the ÖVP goes out here, tells everything possible – but does not deal with the accusations in any way. – Usually such an accusation, Mr Tancsits, would have to trigger a hearty dementi. I say it again: Agreements of this kind, worse than bidder agreements, in ÖVP premises. – What are you saying? To investigate this is actually interesting. Now you've brought another idea that you might well appreciate, namely: Let us wait for the Court of Auditors' report, if we want to do so, for the third part of it – it will be bad enough anyway. – Well, you might think, but the experience of the negotiations in the second partial report was as follows: It has been quite obvious that either deliberately or inadvertently the Federal Minister, but at least Mr Kandlhofer has said the untruth there, at least when he is confronted with the statements of the prosecutor who went to court. – And we will look at that again, because this is not the way we should go about it with the Committee on the Court of Auditors! You know that we don't want to add little from the outset, just because you're waving with your majority. That is why the same dispute is always the same at this point. They say: Let us make a committee of the Court of Auditors! In the Court of Auditors, you are talking about how you are getting along with your majority, and that is why, in fact, it is precisely a reason for a committee of inquiry! Because there it ceases to be possible for ministers to tell what they believe, and Mr. Kandlhofer quite clearly, as it turns out, to say the untruth. – This ceases in a committee of inquiry to the extent that there are very different sanctions. You know exactly how I am in charge of the fact that we do not have these possibilities in this committee. But you should agree on some logical line here. In conclusion: I think my colleague herbs have something quite there. Right hit: Mr. Kandlhofer is Mr. Seilel of the main association, and many ministries “venor” in addition. Let us merge everything: an accusation, an investigation committee – the cleaning work will become relatively violent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8010	Next speaker: Mr Neudeck. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8031	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens' request for the setting up of a Committee of Inquiry on the award of e-cards once again gives us the opportunity to point out the social-democratic failure on this subject. For many years, you've been playing around on this subject and haven't done anything! At the time, you put the ministers in charge, you put the chairman of the main association and you defended it very much. Then, in the final decision, Federal Minister Chief came to work and led to a positive end, and he also asked the Court of Auditors to review, so that nothing would happen. We have not yet received the third report on this subject. The Court of Auditors is still examining and will also examine the issues that have now come on the tapet during the last few days and weeks due to the media reports. Ladies and gentlemen! If we were to vote in favour of this Committee of Inquiry, I believe that this would be a mistrust against the Court of Auditors currently under review, and for this... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] - You think that's so funny? – Thinking You'll have to go over it once in a while! Mr Cap, you've already gone because you didn't know there was another topic! But in principle the Court of Auditors is examining! – I trust the Court of Auditors and will support this... – After you are not! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We too!]] So you do not agree to the request for committee of inquiry?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Oh, yes!]] Two reports you want? – And then you choose the one that suits you better?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Two reports: Court of Auditors and Investigation Committee!]] But, Mr Cap, I have now noted that you do not agree with the Greens' request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] – He just said he didn’t carry that! So we cannot accept this motion for a reluctance against the Court of Auditors. That is why you have to answer this green hipshot alone, as Mr Cap has said he does not agree either.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8110	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Members of Parliament to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[18:48:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-02-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8146	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 786/A to 793/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3919/J to 3941/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 1. March 2006, 10 a.m., will be convened in writing. I would remind you that following this meeting in local VIII, the main committee is listening carefully: in local VIII! – will be tagging. This meeting is closed.
