ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1519	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. Deputies Dobnigg, Silhavy, Dr. Plassnik, Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Dr. Aspock and Ing. Hofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1550	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister of State Defense Günther Platterwird by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartensteinrepresentation. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1577	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 to 8 of the agenda, I am beat in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Paragraph 1 is the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (12 of the Supplements): Sozialrechts-Amending Act 2007 (19 of the Supplements). Point 2 is the report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 28/A by Mr Mag. Molterer, Ursula Haubner, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the General Pension Act, the Pension Act and other laws (16 of the Supplements). Points 3 and 4 are reports by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the requests 62/A by Mr Silhavy, Mr Steibl, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the family allowance law and the Childcare Act (20 of the Supplements), and 65/A by Mr Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the family allowance law and the Childcare Money Act (21 of the Supplements). Points 5 to 7 are reports by the Budget Committee on the requests 30/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz (17 of the supplements), 35/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues in relation to heating costs compensation fund law (18 of the supplements) and 80/A by Mr Jakob Auer, Dr. Matznetter, Mr Neubauer, Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann, Bucher, colleagues on 7. BFG-Novelle 2006 (15 of the supplements). Paragraph 8 is the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 18/A by Mr Kopf, fellow Members, on a federal law amending the Emissions Certificate Act (14 of the Supplements). First, let me vote on points 1 to 3 and 5 to 8. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the removal of the time-limit in respect of these items to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let me now vote on item 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal of the time-limit on this subject. – This is the required majority, and this is also included in the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1662	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4 as well as 5 and 6 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? – That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1687	A proposal on the design and duration of the debates on the whole agenda was agreed at the President-in-Office's Conference. Accordingly, a total of four hours will be proposed for the debates throughout the agenda, so that the following speaking times will arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 60 minutes, green and FPÖ per 44 minutes and BZÖ 32 minutes. This meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this proposal in order to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:07:44]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (12D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Heeresversorgungsgesetz, the Vaccination Act, the Crime Sacrifice Act, the Pension Law 1965 and the Federal Railway Pension Act (Sozialrechts-Amending Act 2007 – SRÄG 2007) (19 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 28/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Ursula Haubner, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the General Pension Act (3. Novelle on the APG), the Pension Act 1965, the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz, the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz and the Relevationsgesetz (16 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1747	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We shall now proceed to the debate. First, Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Gusenbauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1777	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are taking a very important social policy position today. With the increase of the compensation allowance – called the ‘Minimum Pensions’ in the Volksmund – we set a substantial social policy milestone to € 726 per month, because this will mean that no pensioner, no pensioner in Austria will have a pension that is below the poverty line. I think that this is a very important act of social solidarity, especially in the period of high economic growth, in which Austria is becoming more and more rich. That is why I am glad that we are going to take this decision together today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must always ask ourselves the question in these decisions: Who cares? And to what extent? Who are these people? – About 220 000 people are affected, of which over 150 000 are women, including very many farmers, small self-employed women, including workers who, due to their living conditions, have lower insurance periods and therefore have a self-employed pension which does not apply to the compensation allowance. I think it is very important that this large group of people – over 200,000 people who have worked hard for their lives! – at least it is granted that they do not live in poverty at age. This is very important because these people live there and there under very, very difficult living conditions. I have met many of these people who have written down what they spend their money on a daily basis, how much money is actually available to them for life. And if we give these people an increase of 36 € per month – by 36 € per month, by more than 500 € per year! – then that means very, very much to these people, because it is a real improvement in their quality of life, a real improvement in their household income and therefore a real improvement in their social conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the increase in the compensation allowance has always been held together with the discussion on how to combat poverty in Austria. There are, of course, different methods to be used, because there is a difference whether someone is still in working age or is already in retirement. Someone who is in retirement is dependent on the state that the society stands up for the existence of fair pensions. A person who is still in active employment It has the opportunity to make a contribution to his income and to his income. Therefore, the means and ways to combat poverty in Austria must be different. It is a difference whether I am fighting poverty in old age – what I can do with increasing minimum pensions – or whether I am fighting poverty in active working life – because it is urgently necessary that every type of poverty reduction can find the way back to the first labour market. Therefore, social measures to combat poverty in younger people must always be inseparably linked to the prospect of returning to the labour market, while in older people the minimum pension actually needs to be found. Therefore, I slowly find a picture of how we can make Austrian society “watertight” against the worst poverty. If we decide to carry out a form of social security in working life which guarantees the existence of people, but at the same time constitutes a trampoline back into the labour market, if we manage to agree a general collective agreement with €1,000 minimum wage for full-time employment in Austria, and therefore there are incentives to go back to work, and if we take the third step together today to increase the compensation allowance to €726, then it will result in a total package to combat poverty and to develop greater social justice in Austria. I think it is a very, very important signal, both inside and outside, that in times of globalisation, in which many people have the impression that one can no longer help against the great powers of the world economy, the sign is set: Yes, a policy of social justice, a policy of fairness is possible, and Austria will set an example of this with the decision we are taking today. – I am very glad that we will succeed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should be very precise about this. Mr Oellinger pointed out yesterday in the Committee a few cases of hardness, i.e. small pensions ranging from €705 to €711, where, on the basis of the classification, they do not get the same as those who have a slightly higher pension. I therefore believe that we should use today's day to find a formula for these hardships, that there is equal treatment here and that inequalities arising from the system are eliminated. I believe that this is not a big step, but should only lead to what we are trying to achieve, namely that there is a level playing field here. If we succeed today, I think this is a very successful matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1851	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1872	Madam President. My dear! Members of the Federal Government! Dear colleagues! This Federal Government sets out a government template in the good tradition that poverty reduction is an important parameter of the Austrian social policy of this Federal Government and that it is a priority for the group of pensioners. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ]] You have been mentioned in detail, Mr Aubauer will comment in detail on behalf of our group. I would like to take this opportunity to address two current issues discussed in the public, in the context of social security. As a premise, I would like to say that safeguarding the standard of living must take precedence over the use of social benefits by means of own employment! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] That means in clear text, translated: We are here to make the social network hard on the ground. We are there for those who want to work but cannot do it for various reasons. – That means in reverse: We are not there for those who can work but do not want to, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All that is going on in basic security debates must run under this pre-text, and I think that discussions in the course of the coalition debate must also be based on needs-oriented models. Let me also come to a question which is already being debated in public, which concerns the solidarity of the individual social groups among themselves. It should not be forgotten that in all our systems, from tax law to social transfers, we have already implied a high degree of solidarity in the system. What else would progression in tax law mean than that those who have more also do more for social security? What else would it mean if social transfers were not staggered by fixed amounts but brought in percentages, so that those who have more also do more so than those who have less? In connection with pension debates and the fact that we are now calling for a new class struggle in connection with the pension reform, as we have done for Europe with the common pension account, I would like to point out that we have gone down from the principle of the principle of insurance for all systems and have developed a new pension perspective, while safeguarding trust – and that is, I think, an important pillar of all policies. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! People are now being given to the prranger by those who actually need to know better, but they have obviously forgotten that there are many contributions to pension insurance already – pension insurance contributions, dampened increases in high pensions in recent years. Trust protection is a very important element of our policy in the Austrian People's Party, and if you plan interventions in existing pensions, which is not our business, then you should say that before the election and not after that. That is also a matter of fairness in politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1960	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1982	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I can only repeat what I said in a debate: I would like to thank all those who have made it possible that there is an increase in the compensation allowance to an amount that is quite okay, because it is about that with the amount of €726 14 times a year – probably not for everyone, but for most – with which one is somehow protected against poverty. At the same time, I have already said that in committee, please take a brief look at what it means that 200 000 to 250 000 people are involved! That's not a few. This is also a not very good ID card for the pension system, if there are so many who still have very low pensions despite decades of work. – But once again to the address of all those who participated – ÖVP, SPÖ –: Thank you for supporting this! I also have to say on this occasion: Mrs Bundesminister, you do not receive any thanks, because you, as the Federal Minister, in the run-up to the debate on pensions, would have had to go to the public with the proposal: We must increase the compensation allowance to the poverty insurance rate! – That would have been your job, you are the Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs. Federal Minister! – But I have not heard from you in the debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That you say afterwards, Mrs. Federal Minister: Yes, we are there too!, is beautiful, but for that you are not the Minister of Social Affairs. – This is the point, ladies and gentlemen: We also expect a Federal Minister for Social Affairs to be preoccupied with social issues for those who are weak in society and throw themselves into the break for her, and not after that: Yeah, we're there too! - That's too little! [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when are you in politics?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the next item on the agenda, we have the opportunity to discuss it – I will not do that now – as the Federal Minister has done on the example of child allowance or family allowances – that is on the other hand! Now we're discussing pensions. I repeat: Yeah, we're on it. . I would like to take note, Mr Gusenbauer, of the fact that, on the part of the ÖVP and the SPÖ, it is obviously intended to close that gap in the area of compensation allowances which I have made aware of, because otherwise it could happen that there will be among those who are now receiving compensation, some who do not receive the 1.6 percent increase plus the €60. At the same time, I say: We would have wished that there would not only be an increase in the compensation allowance to € 726 for those involved, but also this one-time amount of € 60. However, I do not hide that you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, have done something to improve this small group, at least in the area of compensation beneficiaries, which the compensation beneficiaries can look forward to, and which we can also be proud of as greens – I say – because we have called for the increase of this compensation allowance to the poverty insurance rate from the very beginning. What we have not yet achieved – and time is not enough for that; there have now been contributions to debate, which have also addressed the subject of basic security – is an independent pension for all people of old age, regardless of how long they have worked, because we are Greens of the opinion: It can't be that old people – even though you know that they can't work anymore, that they don't have a chance for the labour market anymore – simply have to deal with the fact that they don't receive a pension or a very low pension – not even the compensation allowance. It is not enough for me if the proposal comes from the BZÖ for a mother's pension, which is to be obtained for the sake of grace, if you only work with Mr Landeshuptmann or with someone else's good, and if so to speak, make a signature – that is not enough! We want an independent pension for all – that is feasible, that is financially possible! – but no mercy for old people!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2035	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2057	Thank you, Madam President. [[Call the SPÖ President!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I'm still overcrowded today: Somehow, in the light of the remarks made here by this speaker on the economic and, of course, implicitly on the social situation in that country, I have taken the lead. That was a whole cast – I would like to say – of anointing words, of self- praise in the XXXL version, of mutual shoulder knocking. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this gives rise to a proper goose skin factor – at least if you give faith to your version, and if so all those who are apparently sitting on their own hallucinations, who perceive increased poverty in this country, perceive the misery, perceive the misery, the unemployment, and who have to experience that the poor in this country are getting poorer and a few richer and more privileged in this country. But that's the reality we're dealing with. [[Abg. Riedler: You've been there for four years!]] That's exactly the reality – and not the pieces you're producing. We experience that, of course, it is the pensioners who do not belong exactly to this group of privileged ones. You have a very different role to play, namely that of a bitter from the service – that is the position you have provided for the pensioners. It was created a group that is obviously to be short everywhere, where one can only get short. And within this group of underprivileged people, there is another group of underprivileged people, and these are – as they are called in the Volksmund – minimum pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, all the parties here – and this is a good thing – have called on the government to increase the compensatory allowance rates. That's a good thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to point out to you that this took place at a meeting of this House, which we requested as a special meeting. In a phase where you have still been concerned with your circumstances, we have taken the issue in hand, requested this session to finally create justice here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it's good that we all agreed to do this increase. – So far, ladies and gentlemen, you can only say that. It is also so good that the Committee on Budgets initially made a promise, because there was also a unanimous decision here that not only the compensatory allowances should be increased, but one will also make a one-time payment for 2007, also of course for the beneficiaries of these compensation allowances. – There has also been unanimity. Why you have decided to do so – whether it be the remains of a remaining social conscience, whether it be actually a form of loutation – is that left to you, but let us say: So far, so good. But it will be interesting to see the government template – in black/orange – because one can only wonder more because it is precisely the group and part of the group that we are among the poorest of the poor, which should be one of the weakest in our society, in turn, out of this grant. They look through their fingers, they don't get anything de facto. – It must already be said that it is an art of social policy interpretation to bring about this distortion in the name of social justice. So you've got those, my own. Ladies and gentlemen, you have now given up such a piece of bread, the Patzerl Butter, that you could have put it on them so that it tastes a bit better. – And whoever would have really hoped with you that there are remaining remains of social conscience, has been disappointed in this area once again. And there you can only say, my Ladies and gentlemen: So far, so bad, and not: So far, so good. It cannot be a question of costs, ladies and gentlemen. What we want costs €14 million. That's what I'm telling you: These are just a few bike hats with your beloved Eurofighter. In this way, you must be sure that you are obviously the party of Eurofighters, while we are fighting for every euro – that is, where the social weak are concerned in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At SPÖ you don't know exactly whether it's more Eurofighter or more social fighter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] I hope that today she decides to be more social fighters than Eurofighters in the future. You're pretty close to the chicken. In any event, FPÖ wants to have a one-off payment for the compensatory allowance recipients in addition to this increase in the compensatory allowance rates. That is why we are making the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, we call for a separate vote. We will then see how each of you acts in this separate vote. If you're serious, you'll agree to these things.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2187	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Kickl is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2282	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2303	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Kickl, if you miss out on so much, you must be careful that something remains of your policy! I do not think that this is very extensive now because these statements do not serve to deal with it. It is now about increasing the compensation allowance. Mr Oellinger, you have criticised Mrs Haubner and the government. I can already tell you that from 1999 to 2006 we increased the compensation allowance in Austria for single people by € 101, i.e. by 17 per cent, and for married people by 25 per cent, with the result that there is the third highest minimum pension in Europe before today's decision. [[Abg. Oils: Stop me!]] [[Abg. Oils: You didn't do anything there!]] [[Abg. Broukal: 17 percent is below the inflation rate, Mr Westenthaler!]] This can be shown and is a success – and it is also good that we have done this! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I also say quite clearly to you: The criticism you have on the Minister of Social Affairs can only be influenced by bad conscience, because you do not want to take responsibility in this country, because you make it comfortable in the opposition series and also explore that this minister – and I do not let anything about it! – has also shown in her term of office that she has the heart at right place that she has enforced benefits, pension benefits, a pension reform, that we have passed disability equal treatment laws, that we have, for example, also compensated the “trumble women” who deserved that we have introduced a child allowance or have increased family benefits by 30 percent over the last five years. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You're sitting on the armchairs...!]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes! On the right!]] This is a flawless balance sheet of this government, the Social Minister and also the BZÖ Group in this government. Let us not let them be made ready by you, Mr Oillinger. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] But now to Mr Gusenbauer, who calls today's decision a social policy milestone: Yeah, that's right, that's right. It is actually a very good, socially balanced measure. But you said in your speech – I wrote it down –: There is now no pensioner or older woman who falls below the poverty line. – I have to correct you – there was the debate yesterday, and we have tabled a request: There are these people very well. Some 170 000 mothers over 60 years of age do not have a pension at all because they have raised children during the postwar period and therefore had no chance of acquiring retirement periods at all. I would ask you to consider whether this is a fair situation for these mothers and why the Socialists' Group rejects the mother's pension, the mother's allowance that we have made in the form of a request to help these people. I said that yesterday: This is not about social assistance, but about a social commitment that we have as a younger generation, because our father generation has been raised and raised by these mothers, who are over 60 years old and who have no pension claim and are the poorest in that country, with the use of the greatest difficulties of the post-war generation. We want a mother's money for these mothers! We are going to make this request again and again in Parliament, until social democracy also insists that there are those mothers who are over 60 years old and have no pension and no entitlement. We don't forget these people in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's do the test! You said: The provisions of this Regulation To make land waterproof against poverty! – It is not waterproof, as the example of mother money shows. The fact that it is not waterproof is seen by looking at where social-democratic governments work, such as in Vienna, where one fifth of the population lives in Austria, but two thirds of all Austrian social aid recipients live. This is Vienna! [[Abg. Broukal: Yes!]] Mr Broukal says yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] You can say that this is good or bad, depending on the way you view it. I mean, it's bad. Do you know what's particularly bad about that? – If there are so many recipients of social assistance in the red Vienna, at the same time a red government – this fear I have just come to the government – increased hospital costs, increased garbage charges, increased waste water charges, increased electricity and gas, increased all charges, and resulted in a wave of inflation in the red Vienna – and this in the case of such a high number of social assistance recipients – then they must partly contribute to these costs. [[Mr Broukal and Mr Mag. Lapp]] I have this concern when you go to the government and lead the government again. Now something to do for the compensation allowances is okay. I think that you agree with our lecture. That's a good performance. However, there is a danger that you will forget this very quickly and get back into the pot very quickly, for example when it comes to introducing an unfinancing basic guarantee for all those who have not worked at all a jobless income costing hundreds of million euros, which will then have to be financed again by tax increases, which all, even the poorest in the country, will have to carry back – and that is bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oils: Which pots did you get into?]] That's what we're talking about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have opposed something in this – and, of course, you have the right – time of globalisation with our social policy measures. Today we want to discuss the increase in the amount of care and the heating allowance, which the Social Democrats also reject. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Lapp and oillinger.]] We should also say that to the public. When it comes to really taking measures to increase the amount of care, to introduce a heating allowance, this rejects social democracy, then suddenly there is no support. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The aim of this globalized cold in this world to combat the social warmth of the home country in Europe is only to live up to this waterproofness against poverty and not only to announce it from this speaker’s mouth, but also to increase the amount of care and the heating allowance later in the morning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lapp]] We would like to invite you to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2507	The next item is Mrs Bures. Desirable time: 5 minutes – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2528	Madam President. High house! Mr Westenthaler, your crocodiles are completely inappropriate. With politics in recent years, you have unfortunately driven thousands of people into poverty. You are talking about this and have made a policy together with the EIA over the last five years, where 160 000 people have become acutely poor through your burden policy, which you have pursued, through your policy that has not focused on employment and growth. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's about mothers!]] Actually, it's immense what you're doing here. I'll invite you to: If you are actually willing to fight poverty in this country, then support the basic need-oriented security. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Wrong speech!]] Then we can make it from one day to the next that in such a rich country as Austria, thousands of people no longer have to live under acute poverty because we distribute wealth more justly. Unfortunately, you have not done this in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There has been a policy in recent years that has gone the wrong way. They have threatened social cohesion in many areas. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The election campaign is over!]] In the last five years, they have never achieved a balance between pensions. In recent years, prices have risen twice as high as pensions. That means: Their policy was one that has driven many people – especially the older generation – into poverty. That is why I am very glad that it has actually succeeded in taking a step to get people out of the risk of poverty – especially the older generation. Around 230,000 people – two-thirds of them are women – have lived at the poverty line, and they are now getting 36 € – a little more to live, a little more than they have received from this government in recent years, through which everything has become more expensive for them and the pensions have become less valuable. It's 5 percent pension increase – and that's a good piece! We should continue this path consistently. It is not about class struggle, as Mr Neugebauer said, but about social justice. It is about that not, as in the past, a few rich people should become richer, but that the wealth is more justly distributed and those people who need it most help from us. Today we are doing this with a massive increase in the compensation allowance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's really nice that we can do it together today. It is proof that social democracy has succeeded in bringing a social aspect back into politics. But we see this not only as a social policy measure, but also, of course, as an economic policy. Then: If people can afford a little more, this will lead to stronger purchasing power and, as a result, more growth. This should also be the case with the older generation who deserved to have a pension from which she can live. But we also want to achieve this for those people who work hard, who have a full-time job and earn only €700 a month after the collective agreement. We are therefore in favour of a general collective agreement with a minimum wage of € 1,000. If you work 38,5 hours, you should get at least € 1,000 minimum wage for that. – This is the consistent way that social democracy has taken, and we will continue to do so. Unfortunately, you have left this path in recent years by running a policy that has led to a few being served – you may have – but the majority of people had nothing of it and felt nothing of it. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... union!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This group of measures is also concerned with boosting employment. It's not about playing people against each other, saying: The people who don't have a job don't want to work at all! There are 300 000 people, including many young people, who do not have a job, due to the failure of the policies of recent years. [[Many calls to the ÖVP.]] We will give these people hope and opportunities again. We'll give them an income from which you can live. We will give the elderly another pension, with which you do not have to live at the poverty line. We'll give boys the chance to get a job or a training place. That's our goal! And that is exactly what the majority of Austrians expect of this house. Today I am pleased that we can decide on 36 € per month in addition to the poorest of the poor and for the generation that has built this country and which we are obliged to thank.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2638	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2659	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I brought you the latest attraction from the Parliament Souvenir shop – a snow ball. [[The speaker keeps them up to date.]] She delights, for when the snow is turned away, a clear view of the Pallas Athens, the goddess of wisdom, becomes clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, it is wise – and we all agree – when people who need it most get a pension increase. It is about the very small pensions of 200, 300, 400 €, which relate to those women who previously had no chance of acquiring a higher own pension – perhaps because of child rearing. The taxpayer then jumps in and finances the compensation allowance up to a certain limit – and that is what we call the minimum pension. You know this system, which is a proven system. But: What is the special and the way in which the new regulation is to be implemented? – For the first time, the minimum pensions rise beyond the poverty line. That means: The minimum pension for married couples is increased to €1 091, for singles from €690 to €726 per month; this is an increase of €36, which is fourteen times per year. No pensioner is considered to be poor in Austria. This is a sign that we – which is addressed to the address of the FPÖ – are “social fighters”, as you have said. - We're the social fighters! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the accusations of the SPÖ editor: I ask you to remember! Judge yourself! Take a clear look at the Pallas Athens! [[The speaker holds the snowball up again.]] The former SPÖ-led government has increased the minimum pension by €45 in six years, but the government bowl has increased the minimum pension by € 136 in six years, i.e. three times. [[A lively welcome to the ÖVP]] In Schilling the figure is almost 2,000 s per month more. So where are the social fighters? [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] For years, the Federal Government has called for the increase of the minimum pension over the poverty line. We have now achieved this goal: no poverty in the age of Austria, and this applies to more than 230 000 people. It is clear that minimum pensioners must turn every euro around five times, and that is certainly not an easy life, but we show: We take seriously the concerns of people in retirement! We want the disciples to get a secure pension. The Schüssel government secured pensions by 2050. Therefore, a Christmas wish to the future government: Don't turn the pension reform back, otherwise the important pension security effects will pump – just like this false snow here in the glass ball. [[the speaker holds the snow ball in height and turns it around]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2756	Mrs Mandak is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2780	Madam President. High house! Mr Westenthaler, you said that the Minister had the heart of the right spot. In recent times, I have sometimes wondered how far her heart beats on the right – especially if I have looked at the provision of childcare allowance and family allowance for all those families who live in Austria, have a right of establishment and are not Austrian citizens. In fact, the Minister with the supposed right-hand heart does not matter whether these families have the money to be able to spend their children well. In fact, it does not matter to her whether they receive family allowances and therefore childcare allowances. – That’s really how it looks! A minister who makes such occasions is not worth being called a family minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr. Kickl of the liberals, when you talk about social justice, I get a button in my stomach. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How does that look?]] Their social justice ends exactly where citizenship ends. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Your social justice – or what you think it is – applies only to the decent, sincere Austrians – as far as possible in the suit – and everyone else should look where they stay in Austria. That's how your justice is defined! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What is true is that with this item on the agenda, which is about increasing minimum pensions, we are actually achieving an improvement. Only: I warn you to act like it's all in the clean and everything's really good. This does not affect the risk of poverty. The big difference is that, Mrs. Aubauer – in order to really keep a clear eye – at the moment when these people are in danger of poverty, they may get over the rounds, but nothing must happen to them, otherwise they will be in poverty. Since no equipment must be broken, the washing machine must not be broken, there must be nothing bigger. In our opinion, this claim is too small. That is why we demand that the risk of poverty be prevented. However, today's increase does not prevent it. Mrs Bures, I think it is wrong for this law to take people out of the risk of poverty, as you said. In fact, that is not the case! They also said that a minimum income for all who are inside the collective agreement is the desirable objective of the SPÖ. I can only say: Harm, damage! I would have liked the SPÖ to include in the government agreements the requirement that all workers receive a minimum income, not only those in the collective agreement. Then: There are more and more workers who, unfortunately, are not in the collective agreement, although they would like to be inside, and thus get the minimum wage. They thus create a two-class company in the field of work that drifts apart. I therefore call on the SPÖ to ask for the minimum income as such in the coalition negotiations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our second criticism – Mr Oellinger has already referred to him – is that you refuse to pay once and for all those who are under the compensation allowance. To this end, we shall put forward the following amendment to this agenda item: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Act referred to in the Title, as amended by the Committee's report, is amended as follows: First: In Article 1(6), paragraph 630 of the third paragraph is replaced by the following: Secondly, In Article 2(6), paragraph 316 of the third paragraph is replaced by the following: Thirdly, In Article 3(6), paragraph 306 of the third paragraph is replaced by the following: Fourth: Articles 9 and 10 are completely absent. This means that everyone in 2007 will receive the one-time payment of €60 and not exactly the poorest will be excluded from it. I hope you will agree to this request. Since you are concerned about combating poverty in Austria, I expect you to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2861	Mr Mandak, I would like to ask you to clarify the following: You have orally made a different request when he tells us in writing. Here's what it says: Articles 4 to 10, including 10 – and you have said Articles 9 and 10 are missing. Skill Perhaps you can make another oral presentation, so that there is no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2883	Thank you, Madam President. – I’m correcting: ==References== The point in the request reads as follows: Articles 9 and 10 shall not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2901	I'm sorry, I have another written request. Perhaps this can be clarified, and the next speaker or the next speaker of the Greens will then make the right request. The application is therefore deemed not to be submitted. - We'll make this clear. The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2931	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Westenthaler, you have criticized my colleagues Kickl for adding so many points that are missing. Mr Westenthaler – You're just coming into the plenary – we're just repairing what you've pumped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You were there too!]] I'm just telling you one thing: This House has taken a completely different decision from what the Minister of Foreign Affairs presented in the last episode. And we're just fixing what you messed up. We want – and that is what I say for all the spectators, because this has probably not been clear before – with our request that the minimum pensioners and compensation payers receive the single payment just as much as everyone else, because this is more than deserved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be said at all that it is already remarkable that in this House today the pensioners are no longer mentioned at all, according to the motto: That is yesterday's story, that's eaten, and all the decisions taken unanimously by the Council of Senior Citizens should not be mentioned in practical terms! Away is the idea that 1.9 percent of the senior pensioner's price index, which is no longer mentioned today, was demanded in the Council of Seniors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you really do not act socially today. Dr. Gusenbauer, I have already told you from this position: At the Pensionist Association, they assured the people there, namely, 400 delegates promised to work for the interests of pensioners – for what Karl Blecha asked – but they were betrayed here. It is! Karl Blecha made this very clear in a press release. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The pensioners were again clearly betrayed by politics this year, and, like every year, they have become a bitter in Austria. Mrs Aubauer, if you stand out here with a snowball and think that your policy of the wisdom of Pallas Athens would be the same, and say that no pensioner is poor anymore, I must tell you: Thank you, bowl! We “gratulate” all of us to Mr. Chancellor Schüssel, who made this possible. I can tell you that if you earn €8 000, obviously the look may be somewhat saddened by the bullet. If you know that 300,000 people live in poverty in Austria and a 1 million people live on the poverty line, I have to tell you: [[Abg. Wheeler: What do you deserve?]] It is very cynical to go out here and claim the opposite! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we will make our request once again, and I can now bring it to the fore. The Federal Government is invited to take all measures to ensure that the following pension adjustment can be made for 2007: First: The total monthly pension income is adjusted up to 1 350 € with 1.9 percent, above which with a fixed amount of 45 €. Secondly, Persons with a total monthly pension income of less than €1 350 will receive an increase of 0.3 percent per month. [[Abg. Rädler: Is the application correct?]] I am looking for all those who in this country really think it is serious with the pensioners to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3021	Mr Neubauer, you, too, did not make the request identical to the one I have before me. I would also ask in this case that the correct request be made at the next word. The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3046	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The compensation allowance for the year 2007 will be wide increased above that rate when it is the case with pensions. This has become a tradition in recent years. The compensatory allowances have been significantly increased from 1999 until now than the consumer price index or the food index has increased. While consumer prices increased by 15.7 percent from 1999 to 2006 when we are now in the EU, compensation allowances rose by 17 percent for the same period for the single person and by 25.5 percent for the family directive. Now we increase this once again, by 36 € for the single person, by 36 € for the family law rate, and this represents an increase in the compensation allowance rate for single person 5.33 percent. That, ladies and gentlemen, you have to keep in mind! We have an effective anti-poverty instrument here, which has raised the risk of poverty. It was important that we did that. You can always demand the impossible, you can always say: Yeah, okay, we can do more! There are people who in the past were not compensation recipients but are minimally superior, and if one now raises the compensation allowance rate more than another, then one or the other also benefits from the compensation allowance. This is true once, not at all, but one must definitely raise those pensions that are very low. Today, there are still people in Austria who have earned little in their working life, and you, Mrs Bures, have cut income in Austria. – However, income in Austria does not make the government, we do not do this here in the National Council, but the social partners negotiate it, and the mandate for the workers is the ÖGB. Please, contact the ÖGB that wages will be properly negotiated! When I look at what came out this time for those in the trade – an insanity! 2.35 percent! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Take a look at the trade situation! And then you complain that there's too little consumption?- Oh, my God! These are all consumers. 450 000 people are traded in Austria, and if these people have a low income, they can no longer spend. - That's it! You have to strengthen the purchasing power. If one strengthens the purchasing power in working life, the consumption increases – no question! – and the provision for the pension is also guaranteed, because, of course, higher income also increases the pension, no question. That's how it pulls like a red thread. In this respect, the employee representation, the trade union union association, is simply too weak – too weak because they are constantly engaged in internal discussions, because they have been slid into trouble. That's fact, you have to react there once! The fact is that, since we have been responsible for government, in any case over the last six years, the compensatory allowances have been increased by far more than before when you presented the Federal Chancellor and the Social Minister to Social Democrats. That's the way it is. Some 230 000 people are affected by the measures now proposed, which benefit from them. Of course, additional costs are also involved. €76 million will be allocated to these 230 000 people. – This is social policy, you can cut off a disc from us! In the future, they will be able to borrow from us all the examples that indicate how to make real social policy, because “social democracy” does not yet mean “social policy”.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3106	The next item is the report by Mr Riepl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3127	Madam President. Mr Dolinschek, your last comments on collective treaty policy, of course, force me to say a few sentences. I only remember your colleagues in government, your Minister of Finance, what this one, as the metal industry in agreement with the economy last year – listen to me, Mr Dolinschek – has completed a 3.1 percent increase in wages, your colleague, who has been sitting with you in the government, at this conclusion. [[Abg. Dolinschek: He has agreed!]] Do you want the newspaper clips? Should I give it to you? – He has awarded his degree abroad, he has said: That's far too high, it can't be, it's damaging the economic location!, and so on. Putting yourself here now and dissuading the trade unions that they are too weak, while at the same time your colleague, your finance minister, criticizes that there is once a proper wage clearance – that is, that is, already proper courage. I would like to congratulate you on this courage, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fight against poverty, ladies and gentlemen, has always been a major concern for social democracy. Today's decision to increase the minimum pension rate to € 726 is, I believe, a major relief for – the number has already been mentioned – 230 000 people in our country. The fight against poverty – I say it again – has not been an important concern of the former Federal Government over the last six years, when you look at it objectively. When I look at how much Caritas have repeatedly criticized, I have repeatedly pointed out that 460 000 people in Austria live in poverty. Over a million people, i.e. 13.2 percent of the population, are at risk of slipping into poverty. Every year there were these warnings, clues – they were negated by the government, it was actually done nothing. Now we are finally so far that we can improve a little here. I'd say high time! Mrs Aubauer! That with the snowball is of course also a very interesting thing, especially when you note that the wisdom and the goddess of wisdom are at the door. I remember: A member of your club once regretted that the goddess of wisdom and wisdom is before Parliament and not in Parliament. We have experienced in the last six years orange-black government that wisdom has often remained outside, not here. – This should be pointed out on this occasion and in relation to your example in relation to the snowball. Mr Neugebauer knows what I am talking about, especially as he rightly criticized this at a demonstration at Heroesplatz at that time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rasinger: Franz, you've been better before!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: But you didn't bring anything together!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer said yesterday: We need a balanced budget, we need stable state finances, debt is the most unfair of the young generation. – I am still a poster, an advertisement from the ÖVP in memory, “future without debt” stands on it. Mr Finz, you are too quiet for me today in this debate. You have to be asked a little bit, and I would like to ask you a little: Is it true that today we have 23 billion euros more public debt than you started six years ago? [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] Is it true that road, rail, Federal Railway, ASFINAG has accumulated 20 billion euros of debt? Is it true that the family compensation fund is going in the direction of €2 billion deficit? Is it true that unemployment insurance is slipping into the deficit? – You have the opportunity to say something about it today, I ask you to do so. Get up and say something about it! [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Dr. Finz.]] In addition, the sale of the family silver is still coming, and with the gold there is something else now, you hear. A quarter of the gold reserves are said to have been sold? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:... National Bank!]] You are not responsible for this – aha. The Secretary of State has said that he is not responsible for the gold reserves and for the value of the gold of our Republic, and therefore certainly the Minister of Finance. I wonder who the administrator is, who is the political person. You don't? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Independent National Bank!]] So anyone else. All right, you can say anything. I ask you to say that, because I think people have a right to it. Do you know how this gold happens to me? Example: There is a family, the child has four gold ducats, the father takes one away, doesn't tell anyone anything about it, and suddenly one finds out, there are only three left. – Do you know what that is called? I don't know what it's called, I don't think it's appropriate that, without anyone saying anything, there's still a quarter of the gold reserves away. That's 105 tons of gold, I notice. [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: Don't your representatives sit in the National Bank?]] I mean, the people in Austria who are sitting in front of the televisions now somehow have a right to know what really happened to our gold and what it looks like with the debts. Sage She's got something to do with it. Sign up to speak and say I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3269	The next item is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3291	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, We are now dealing with the subject of pension adjustments, increasing compensation allowances, an important step in pension insurance. – As one can see from the speeches of my previous speakers, this is a highly emotional issue because it is one of the important social issues that are often very emotional and are seen very differently. However, I think that we have found a good compromise with this proposal, and I am glad that a unanimous decision will also be made in this context. The money for social benefits must be generated and drawn up by someone. Let me therefore also thank those who, with their taxes and taxes, can only make it possible for us to provide exactly these social benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think they deserved it! Finally, we should always remember that spending is much easier than achieving it. Social issues are always very emotional, because of course they have a lot to do with justice, and they are – and they have also shown some speakers before me – also always incredibly tempting for populist demands. What I really don't like and therefore would like to expressly address: Social issues should not always be exchanged with other topics. Social matters cannot be exchanged against security, social matters cannot be exchanged against economic policy; these are things that belong to a large whole, such as social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will be with 1. In January 2007, I would like to relinquish my mandate and therefore say a few words about my previous work as a parliamentarian. I was allowed to work here in Parliament for seven years, and I would like to say that I was a parliamentarian with enthusiasm. It is a demanding and very demanding activity, but it has made me extremely happy. In recent times – so my impression, my feeling – the image and work of the politician is becoming more and more critical, and I think that is a development that we ourselves are not innocent. This is also a worrying development, because our work is a very important, very demanding work, which, as Mrs Aubauer has shown with her snowball with the Pallas Athens, also requires wisdom. If we ourselves make this work bad or are involved in making it bad, this does not serve political work. But politics is important because it creates framework conditions for people in our country with whom they have to work and live with. – We should keep thinking about this when we throw each other’s “friendships” at the head. I have met people in all the political groups who have just this claim to be wise – and that was one of the most beautiful parts of parliamentary work. I would like to thank all of you for your cooperation. I have many wishes for Parliament: I wish above all a good spirit, I wish you all, despite all ideological contradictions, a willingness to talk, compromise and mutual personal respect. This is the most important thing in democracy, and that is the most important thing for us. You all have a lot of positive energy for your activity and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3360	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, we too thank you for the good cooperation and we wish you every good thing for the future! The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. His welcome time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3384	Madam President. I only have the task of correcting the request that was previously misread – and I apologise for it, it was my fault. It is essentially about the fact that not only compensation recipients, but also members of so-called small pensions, pensions under the Vaccination Act and so on, do not receive the one-time amount. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I repeat: It is about the fact that, despite the changes and improvements you have now made, even the members of small pensions or the compensation beneficiaries will be granted this €60 one-time amount. We're fine, it's not about a privilege.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3452	The amendment by Mr Oellinger, which has just been read, has now been tabled, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3528	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3549	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We've heard a lot about snow and much about gold. We are not responsible for the snow in this Republic, for the gold very well. Some people are talking about Austria's biggest gold robbery. We are really interested in this, Mr State Secretary! But you are not the Ronald Biggs of Austrian domestic policy, since Mr. Finanzminister Grasser will have to answer for what happened to the National Bank's reserves. From the gold robbery to the pension clause. – We have until the 16th century. In November, the social democrats are negotiating to give the pensioners what they are entitled to, that is, 2.2 percent. We also have a request for the meeting on 17 November. ==References== ==References== On November 17, we agreed with all the seniors of all political couleurs, with the Social Democrats, with the Greens – on 17 November. November, Mr. Gusenbauer, with your pact with the ÖVP at 3 p.m., you have taken the pensioners into your pocket and decided to raise them by 1.6%. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, today we give you the opportunity to repair this social cold and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, that is what we have agreed on, that is what the senior associations of Blecha want to go down, that is what pensioners in Austria need. Have courage and agree to our request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3617	The motion for a resolution, which has just been drawn up by Mr Graf, has been tabled, also supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3687	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3708	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! I believe that the degree knife for all of us should be the opinion of the Being citizens, and from this very point of view, we have heard over and over the last few weeks, months and years – not only me, certainly you too – that life has become more expensive, but that pensions are becoming less and less valuable. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – This is being repaired today, and not just that, Mr Westenthaler. If it suits you, you have been there since May, if it does not suit you, you will be there longer – depending on your preferences. Stay credible, for credibility is one of the most important elements that we politicians have to show to citizens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before I forget it, because it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to announce an amendment which is being distributed just about the people, which Mr Ollinger mentioned. There may be 100 to 150 people affected, but no one should fall through the social network. It is about the pensioners with pensions between € 710 and € 715, who could lose up to a maximum of € 56 due to the loss of this one-time payment. We want to fix this. If the request has been received, I will bring it in immediately, because I am the last speaker of my group. I have spoken of credibility, ladies and gentlemen, and we should respect the achievements of the older generations and not give more or less adventurous speech from us, but remain credible. Because what we say before the election, we should also implement after the election. And before there is a new federal government – Mr Westenthaler, you have never gathered anything like it at all – there is already a massive improvement for minimum pensioners during the negotiations. The SPÖ keeps the promises and fulfills them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of women's minimum pensions in particular. You know exactly, women work, cook, clean, wash, still provide the children with a very, very high degree of attention to the men. At 55 percent, they also make a significant contribution to ensuring that the gross domestic product looks the way it looks: More than half of the benefits come from women from paid and unpaid work. And when women get older, the question arises as to how the women are then insured. It's no secret when I say that at the highest pensions the men are naturally ahead: Double as many men as women receive the highest pension. And you will not be surprised if I tell you that the minimum pensions – unfortunately, unfortunately – are the women's front: More than twice as many women as men receive a minimum pension. Of the more than 1 million women in Austria who are over 60 years of age, only 440 000 women have their own pension. It's high time something happened! Finally, the other parties have understood this, and it is equally important that we implement other major projects. Therefore, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since it is distributed and I have explained it to him, Madam President, I hope that the request has been tabled. It is, as has been said, that the few people who would have fallen through the social network, because they would not have received this one-time payment due to the low amount of the pension, also get it, and thus there is also a gap. I believe that this is a big project that we have now begun, to which many other projects must follow, no question until we have a new federal government, in the sense of the people of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3793	The amendment tabled by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who had just been tabled by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, tabled the amendment by Mrs Dr. Gusenbauer, Neugebauer, Dolinschek, colleagues and colleagues have been explained accordingly in his main points. He's on trial. I leave him on the basis of the extent according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3910	Next, Mr Donabauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3931	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen on the televisions! High house! The debate on pensions is a very emotional matter every time. Today, we do not decide on the adjustment of pensions, we simply decide today to redefine the compensatory allowances and a few accompanying measures – in order to clarify the thematic orientation here. Secondly, Mrs Bures has said that credibility is the greatest factor, the most important in policy. If I've been listening to the contributions since this morning, I'm not always so convinced that credibility is what everyone here wants to represent. I cannot imagine that we are all told and presented that a lot is going well in our country. We have a good development. We have good yields. That's all right. We have a good social system, which is generally attested to us. And that is why, I believe, it is not very appropriate for us to keep talking about poverty here. There is poverty, but real poverty rarely reports. And it will be our task to track down real poverty and bring us in where people, for whatever reason, come into a life situation that they no longer deal with themselves. That's something we have to do, but we won't do that with pension law alone. Further, it is often presented here how bad the policies of recent years would have been. No, we have been here for years, for decades, a tangible development, even during the great coalition. Not everything has been done, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, because you lacked courage in 1997 the pension reform has remained in the pipeline. However, it was not fully implemented between 2000 and 2006, but many things, I think, could be developed. If we stand here and talk about pension policy, I would like to say one thing to Mr Kickl: Please, you're a young man! Here, to produce and say, the pensioners in Austria are bitters in front of politics: Mr. Kickl, think about your position! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I say to you: As a parliamentarian, I have a very great commitment here in voting on this law to those who expect and receive pensions. But I also have a responsibility to the contributors and, above all, to the young people. And that's why please remember that our good pension system is really building on the yield performance of the economy as a whole, but above all on the generation contract! Please don't go here and don't license, but think about all our citizenship! If it is said again and again today that this compensatory allowance adjustment would not be all right, I tell you the following – listen to me, young man! –: [[call to the FPÖ]] If we had adjusted the 690 € with 1.6 percent like all pensions, then 701 € will come out. If you have 60 € once- Add payment, you will have a total additional payment of 214 €. If you make the adjustment from 690 € to 726 €, as we do now, in the permanent right – because the 60 € are not a permanent right – then the referees get 504 € more, that is all 289,44 €. I invite you, I agree, and I would also like you to remember that these are still exempt from prescription fees! That is, we look at these people in particular, because we are also committed to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3992	Next, Mr Haberzettl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4023	Estimated President! Dear members of the government! High house! Today is probably the day of repairs. [[Call the ÖVP:BAWAG! BAWAG!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Cerberus hits!]] Not only does the infamous child allowance of Mrs Social Minister have to be repaired, although, as it seems, against her will, but also the 2004 pension reform with which the so-called parallel bill was introduced. This should determine the pension entitlement according to the old pension system as well as the new pension right at the time. This made it necessary not to determine the best 15 years of pension insurance periods as before, but the law makes a lifelong calculation necessary. For pension insurance, the problem arose of having to take 40 years of retirement into account in the return process – an administrative effort that we have warned against the adoption of the General Pension Act in 2004. Well, we know that all the objections were not taken into account at the time. In other words: The Federal Government still in office has raised this problem with the parallel account itself. Because, of course, pension insurance in the last two years has not been able to collect the necessary data retroactively. That is what all the critics of this federal government predicted at the time. – I can quote from our opinion at the time: "The collection of the data for the pension account will lead to a non-representable administrative burden for insurance institutions. Apart from that, it should be feared that the data for the past cannot be determined in the required quality in the absence of such records.” High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what happened. That is why the transitional period will now be extended again, i.e. until the end of next year, so that the parallel calculation can be started at last or perhaps by 2008. To be positive, the government is drawing lessons from self-indebted errors at least in the last few weeks. Of course, it would be even more positive to assess if not only the specific problem with data collection would be repaired, but the pension reform as a whole. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Railway Pensions, gel?]] Finally, over the last six years, there have been three pension reforms, all of which have been aimed at reducing the benefits of state pension insurance. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true! The goal is to make them safer, for the boys! Obviously the SPÖ doesn't think of the boys!]] I can make a statement on Mr Dolinschek's comments: A trade union cannot work and negotiate so much what this federal government has been able to do in recent years to take away workers and pensioners. This is impossible for a trade union movement! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the union pensions, Mr. Colleague? Do you have to shorten them?]] Her unfair and unsocial pension reform, Mrs Social Minister, and those of your predecessors in the Black and Blue Government are the sad highlight of a social policy that has increasingly become a non-social policy in your time of government – and was primarily aimed at reducing benefits. The most unsocial features of the pension reform: double reduction payments for corridor pensions, no pension corridor for women, a completely unsatisfying hacker scheme and a much worse heavy-worker regulation, which was a policy according to the motto “longer work, less pension”, and the victims of this kind of policy are women, unemployed and non-pervasive workers. [[Abg. Rädler: An old speech!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do the “Hungarians” now pay the union pensions?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we now have the opportunity to eliminate these atrocities in the pension area in the course of the negotiations. Create a social future with the SPÖ! [[Abg. Rädler: A chuzpe!]] That means that there must be a fair design of the hacker scheme. That is to say, there must finally be a fair system of heavy workers, and this eye-catching, which is now taking place in the case of heavy workers, should be ended. [[Abg. May. Molterer: My God!]] However, this also means that hard-working women must be able to enter early retirement due to heavy work. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That the union did not secure pensions, but shortened – and silently!]] This also means that heavy workers can retire without any deductions. This also means that heavy work must be taken into account when calculating disability and invalidity pensions. Finally, there must also be a very reasonable definition of what is to be considered a serious work at all. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be a hard work in the coalition negotiations to reach a consensus on a fair pension scheme. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And the BAWAG is out abroad, and the pensions are shortened!]] But I am also convinced that we will succeed, because we hope all of us believe that Austria can afford it and that, after decades of hard work and great achievement, the older generation has a secure evening of life for our country, which it deserves. [[Abg. Timer: Eternally moved! Bullshits! Social Romance!]] However, this also requires self-conception that the current legislative change is only the beginning of an improvement in the content of pension legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4212	Mrs Haubner has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4235	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haberzettl has not made a complete review of the item on the agenda and an outlook for enlargement in the area of the pension system. I missed one point, namely that he did not talk about union pensions, because then that would have been complete. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today is not the day of repair, but today is a day where we are going a step further, a step forward in a development that began six years ago, where we have taken responsibility for the future, for solidarity also between generations. [[Abg. Oils: Unfortunately!]] In order for this social cohesion between generations to survive and continue to work, particular attention must also be paid to the older generation. And we have gone this way correctly and consistently until today, and this shows up in many areas for the elderly. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] On the one hand, we have realized that people must be very active, very confident and very self-determined. And here we have taken very important steps in the Council of Senior Education, in the field of lifelong learning, in the field of education projects, in the field of prevention programmes. A second area that we have set up quite properly, especially for the older generation, is: How can access to care and health care be ensured in the future? There's still a lot to do, because that's the biggest challenge, especially in the care sector. I very much hope that the future government will really take the right action here, because we have already started right. [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] In this legislative period, we increased the care allowance for the first time after ten years, and I say that was also an initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] We have developed new ideas in the field of care at home, old age, for which the federal government and the ministry are also responsible, which are now also to be incorporated into a care system, such as the care check or the improved care insurance for women who care for relatives at home. The third area that concerns today, because an important segment is being improved today, is that people of old age can live with adequate financial security. And there are, of course, those who have micro-pensions, and those who refer to the least-pensions – here I repeat what many of my previous speakers have already said – are, of course, the women today. Why are the women? Because women used to work part-time because of family obligations, which has led them to have so small pensions that they cannot live today. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not only earlier, even now!]] And precisely to those we increase the compensation allowance. That is why this is another important step today. After the first out-of-tour increase in the compensation allowance for individuals made in the previous year, the increase will be made again next year. I think that's not only right and good, but people will feel it too. As they felt in the previous year, they feel it this year, because they receive a total of € 540 for the whole year – an amount that there has been as a total compensation allowance in the 1990s. It must be imagined that this was the case in about ten years ago. The problem raised by Mr Oellinger yesterday in the Committee and again today concerns about 150 people who have or can have a disadvantage of between €0.80 and €4 per month. That is why I also support the fact that we are making this disbursement, and that is why my group has also responded to this amendment. This is correct and necessary, because there should be no disadvantage in this area, in addition to the extra-tourist increase. [[Abg. Ollinger: Absurd!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a good tradition in Austria compared to other countries, where there are zero rounds for pensioners, that there is an annual statutory adjustment according to the CPI, and that Parliament has the opportunity to increase extra-tourist, in addition to this. We are therefore oriented to the immediate needs of the people, in line with them, and that is good in Austria. I believe that we must also have a social interest that in the future there will be no people in Austria, and in particular no more women who do not have old age insurance. That is why I hope that the request made by my group regarding mothers' money will also play a role in the government negotiations, so that in the future there will be a safeguard for those about 170 000 women who do not have their own incomes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this joint decision today in Parliament because, although we have different access to different areas, Parliament is signaling that the concerns of the older generation are very important and sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4337	Now, Mr Dr. Stumpfully, I would like to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4358	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's day in Parliament should actually be a day of great joy. All of us together, all the political groups here, decide – I am of the opinion of Dr. Gusenbauer – a social policy milestone. We are continuing the policy of recent years to always increase minimum pensions above average. This is a day of joy, a common decision. [[Abg. Oils: To the level of poverty!]] I say quite honestly, I am a bit irritated by the debate that is being held here. If I listen to the speeches of the speakers from the Socialist Group, the pure election-retoric, pure “Napalm election” is! [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bures, if the policy of recent years has been so bad, I ask you: Then why can we go on 1st? In January, do these great milestones of social policy costing a total of €600 million? – We can only do that because we have made a successful financial and economic policy, which is why many other countries envy us! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Haberzettl, I think it is very strange that on a historic day for the trade union movement, on which the ÖGB can only be saved, because its greatest assets – the BAWAG – are sold to a fund you said months ago: [[Abg. Rädler: That's it!]] “Husbands” are these, “capitalist locusts”!, come out here and criticize the successful policy of the government! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] You, Mr Haberzettl, are members - I say this without emotion, quite soberly - of the red functionalist class that has made sure that we no longer have a central savings bank today, that we no longer have a Landesbank, that we no longer have a credit institution today, that Bank Austria has been sold abroad – and that now BAWAG and Postsparkas are thrown into revenge by a foreign investment fund! This is the functional clique you belong to, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I really think it is adventurous to get out of here on this day and make such a speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I don't know very slowly: Do you want a great coalition with us – or do you want none? – With this election battle rhetoric, we will not achieve a great coalition; I think you can say that very easily! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is immense!]] As Mr Van der Bellen looked so critically – I said it yesterday in the Committee on Budgets: I originally wondered why a party like the Greens, who successfully won third place in Parliament, says from home: No, we don't want to rule. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We do not want to have anything to do with the FPÖ, we do not want to have anything to do with the BZÖ. – I know now: You don't want to take responsibility, Mr. Van der Bellen. They want to know everything better, to criticize everything and to demand everything. But politics is a little more: Politics is to take responsibility for the future and not just to know everything better and to criticize everything! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Van der Bellen, I think we should really discuss what policy means. But to say: Please, we have become the third strongest party, but we do not want to assume responsibility – responsibility not! – we just want to criticize, to know everything better and to demand more than we have!, it is not. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Let us not forget – Mrs Baumgartner said it: All that we distribute – in which we all agree: we want more for the pensioners, we want more for the families, we want more for the disabled – all this has to be developed. If we always say that we want to strengthen Austria's economic location, then economic location means jobs, income opportunities and social security. This is a successful policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4496	Mrs Mikesch is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4518	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the pension reform has provided long-term funding for our pension system. to ensure that the European Union is able to act in accordance Today, we are taking another important step with the increase in the compensatory allowance rate. Social injustices result from those who receive a little more than the compensatory allowance rate from a private pension and therefore do not receive a right to exemption from fees and exemption from self-retention et cetera. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Pension harmonisation and the associated abolition of old pension privileges have brought justice within pension systems. Women's situation has also been significantly improved by the measures of pension harmonisation. For example, only seven years of contributions are necessary for women born after 1955. Four years are charged per child for the pension with an invoice amount of 1 350 € per month. Since 1999, the measures for social weakness have been particularly forced. With the tax reform of 2004 and 2005, more than one million pensioners were relieved with around €450 million, with half of the pensioners no longer paying any tax at all. In contrast to Germany, where pensioners do not receive a pension increase for seven years, or, for example, to the United Kingdom, where there is no pension increase by 2012, we have decided on an exemplary pension increase for 2007, which is well above the inflation rate. All these facts show that in recent years we have not only created a socially balanced policy in the field of pensions, but also taken into account the balance of the interests of generations. The long-term financing of pensions is thus ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4585	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, duly tabled and is under negotiation. Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4609	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Most of my previous speakers have said that In my speech, I would like to refer to the second request and thus to the parallel account in the new pension law. For 15 years now, I have been dealing with social security law and have experienced numerous pension reforms at this time. My impression was that most of them are in common, that the will for reform was an end to the will. The result was a lack of courage and visionlessness, based on short-term pension insurance, only partial changes to pension insurance law – and this is exactly why pension harmonisation differs from the reforms that have taken place so far! The aim of pension harmonisation is to ensure long-term pension schemes and is particularly suitable for achieving this objective. However, this required a fundamental reorganisation of the existing pension systems and a complete system conversion of the calculation method. This system change has been implemented in such a way that there is no unfair hardness. To this end, a three-part distribution of the insured persons was carried out: All insured persons prior to the 1st century. Born January 1955, the new pension right has been excluded. This ensured the necessary legal certainty. Those persons entering the new insurance system are subject exclusively to the new law. A fair solution could also be found for those insured who have already acquired entitlements, namely, under the old law, but who still have a longer period until their retirement. For them, the current parallel accounting system was developed. This will avoid an abrupt transition to the new pension right, particularly for reasons of trust protection. I am right for my previous speaker, Mr Haberzettl, to say that this parallel account has naturally led to an increased administrative burden, because it means that pension insurance companies can now be determined three levels of benefit. However, Mr Haberzettl spoke of an “irresponsible administrative burden”, and I think that, in the light of the constitutional protection provided, an increased administrative burden is very appropriate. Mr Haberzettl should actually know that pension expectations also acquired are very safe. Of course, we also need to ensure that we do not produce a disproportionate administrative burden in relation to the result. I therefore think it justified to waive the parallel account if the proportion of insurance periods acquired under the old law or under the new law is less than 36 months.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4658	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Maier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4679	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is interesting to pursue this discussion. I think I am the twentieth speaker now, and everyone speaks pro, because we are glad that we decide; but what has been brought into the discussion here is quite remarkable. I have heard that the minimum CV was brought into the discussion, even jobs for young people have been addressed in some form – so great things. But the most remarkable thing was Mr Haberzettl, who, as one of the leading ÖGB officials, would have to know what he is talking about. If he has spoken of pensions and the safety of pensions and himself knows that pension promises cannot be financed in his own organization and now need to be taken back, then he should not make himself and put new things into the room of which no one knows how to finance them. That is why I am a little sorry, because the debate, particularly by the social democracy colleagues, on the question of pensions, is somewhat too short for me. It is also allowed to let a little imagination take place in itself. There is a three-pillar model for pensions, but I really lack the ideas as to how we can expand the second and third pillars in order not only to finance the state pension column. I didn't hear anything about this. I would think that in the context of future discussions one should also go in this direction, because finally the ÖGB has shown how it is not going. That you need money and first have to have the money to spend it, this wisdom should also have recognized you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kurt Eder: We know that anyway!]] There we do not need the goddess of wisdom, but that is simply a matter of the accountant. In this direction, we should think, because otherwise, to believe that the pension reform should be turned back in its cornerstones, that would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4728	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4749	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for his excellent report. – He is right: Today we have the manuscript of the Social Democrats. This should be expressed in detail here, for it will be from 1 January 1994. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] There are no pensioners in the poverty zone with the increase in the compensation rate. It's a milestone. Over 80 percent of the ASVG-pensionists will receive more than 1.9 percent increase. It's also a milestone. Today it is also repaired by all the so criticised baby decree of the Social Ministry. That's good too, just before Christmas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But who has heard the last speeches, especially some of the ÖVP Group – coalition negotiations, coalition negotiations –: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. You don't hear one, that we've been saying over the last seven years: Swamm over, it wasn't so bad, it was okay anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Successful!]] You won't hear from us. They will continue to face our criticism. If you leave behind a drastic reduction in the foreign exchange and gold wealth of the Austrian National Bank, an increase in the budget deficit to the extent that it is high-economy and the sale of the family silver, and all of this will define what we will have to negotiate in the next few days, then you will hear from us. We had to look for years at Mr. Grasser's self-indulgence and listen to Dr. Schüssel's self-indulgence, and we're just tired of it! You will listen to this in the future: The last seven years must not be forgotten. You should really write that in the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4798	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4819	Ladies and gentlemen! It is really a day of joy for the Austrian pensioners. On the contrary, we can make a substantial increase in pensions to other European countries. – Yes, Mr Cap, we are happy to see back to the last seven years. We can afford this because we have done a good job. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Yes, we can afford to do so because we had the courage to reform our pensions and to harmonise them as far as possible. Yes, Mr Cap, we are proud to see back these last seven years because they have been very good years for Austria. We have therefore made a contribution to the fact that we have economic growth today, which is what we all envy in Europe. We are an example in this European Union! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You know, Mr Cap, we are also happy to compare the last seven years with the seven years before. Let us stick to this question of currency reserves! [[Abg. Strache: You've always been there! You of the ÖVP have always been there in the government!]] Yeah, it's true: The gold reserves in the Austrian central bank have become smaller since 2000. But, Mr Cap, in the seven years preceding that, under a red finance minister, 240 tons of gold have been sold. – Only by knowing what we are talking about, Mr Cap. Yes, Mr Cap, this day is wearing the socialist manuscript, which is true because today the trade union bank BAWAG has to be sold. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] This is the socialist manuscript, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sold abroad to a “heussecke”. And the pensions in the ÖGB are not insured. This is the socialist manuscript that wears this day. [[Abg. Brosz: This will be a funny coalition!]] Mr Cap, so that this is also clarified: As you call into the forest, the echo is going to be back.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4900	Mr Strache has now spoken. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4921	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The last two speeches were simply significant. You have to speak again, if you listen to the bubbling of red and black, where there is actually a red-black-orange coalition proposal here today, where there is the interplay of a new form of coalition, namely the SPÖ supports the minority government of Black-Orange also on this question, and then there is an unnecessary chatter. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, I'm telling you something: The Austrians, who watch today and are able to follow it live, know that you have been there for the whole of 14 years, like a "Soletti": "Always there" was the Austrian People's Party. You're pretending you weren't responsible at the time. Of course you were in a coalition at the time! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Of course, we should also address the following, because today it was a topic: If there have been 30 trucks to the National Bank secretly, probably in a night and fog action, to pick up 105 tons of gold, so that they will then be sold by 1.7 billion €, then you can only ask yourself: Is the Ronald Biggs of Austrian internal policy now the Karl-Heinz Grasser – or why does it need such a night and fog action?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – That’s right, please, not explainable! There would probably be a need for a special meeting of its own to highlight this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, of course, I am also giving the SPÖ this along the way, which is also the subject today, namely that the ÖGB spares the BAWAG to a turbocapitalist company called “Cerberus”. – Well, you only need to look into Greek-Roman mythology, which is called “Cerberus” actually means the hell dog standing in front of the gate and there guarding the entrance to the underworld and no one wants to let out, so to speak, a lost soul. [[Abg. Großruck:... “Ewald”...!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. May. Stadler]] This is already an evidence of poverty in Austria's trade union and social democracy! – The FPÖ has always expressed a very clear opinion on this: Not to ruin BAWAG, not to ruin it in the sense of turbocapitalism, but to try to find an Austrian solution and save BAWAG. Unfortunately, you failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4985	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for attention so that we can carry out the votes quickly – there are a lot to do. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Social Rights Amendment Act 2007 in 12 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Members of Parliament, Mr Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled the same amendments. In addition, Mr Kickl has made a request for a separate vote on each point of his amendment. Finally, Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I would like to refer to the parts affected by the amendments and the request for separate vote, namely the series after, and finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. to vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have requested the deletion of paragraph 3 of Article 1(6) of Article 630. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – That is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as Members of the European Parliament, have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 3 in Article 2(6), paragraph 316. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have requested the deletion of paragraph 3 in Article 3(6). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of Article 4 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. The members of the Group of the European People's Party and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, requested the removal of Article 5 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval for Article 5 as amended by the Government's proposal. – This is accepted by a majority. The members of the Group of the European People's Party and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, requested the removal of Article 6 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is the minority and rejected. Those ladies and gentlemen, who advocate Article 6 as amended by the Government's proposal, I am looking for a positive sign. – This is the majority and accepted. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have requested the removal of Article 7 of the draft law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – That is the minority and rejected. Those ladies and gentlemen who support Article 7 as amended by the Government's proposal, I am looking for a positive sign. – This is the majority and accepted. Mr Oellinger, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have each tabled an amendment which has the substance of the deletion of Article 8 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of Article 8 as amended by the Government's proposal, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have requested the removal of Article 9 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and rejected. Those ladies and gentlemen who support Article 9 as amended by the Government's proposal, I am looking for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In addition, Members of Parliament, Mr Oellinger, colleagues and Members of Parliament, have requested the removal of Article 10 of the draft law. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and rejected. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of Article 10 as amended by the Government's proposal for a positive sign. – This is the majority and accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 12 of the supplements, as amended by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Dolinschek, Mr President. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, on the adjustment of pensions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mikesch, Mr Bures, Mr Dolinschek, Mr De Dolschek, Mr De Clercq, on social justice in the form of exemptions from fees, self-retentions and other social benefits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – That is unanimous. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 7.) Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the General Pension Act, the Pension Act and other laws, including title and entry into 16 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[11:10:00]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 62/A by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Ridi Steibl, Mr Ridi Steibl, on a federal law amending the Family Allowance Act 1967 and the Childcare Act (20 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 65/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues on a federal law amending the Family Allowance Act and the Childcare Money Act (21 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5244	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first to speak is Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5277	Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite exactly a year since the so-called foreign law package was decided here in the National Council, with the votes of ÖVP, BZÖ and SPÖ. The SPÖ was warned against certain social consequences of this law. The Caritas have warned that other organisations that are active in the social assistance sector, if I may call it so, have warned them last but not least the Greens here in Parliament. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have warned that, among other things, this was only a consequence of the foreign law package, discrimination and discrimination against certain children and certain mothers will take place, which goes beyond the previous, legal status before – from children and mothers, I expressly emphasize that they are legally resident in Austria, which have a so-called residence permit for Austria. We have warned against building up real poverty traps with this so-called package by the legislator, ÖVP, BZÖ and SPÖ. But all these warnings were struck and ignored. The Greens therefore expressly welcome the fact that ÖVP and SPÖ have now leaped over their shadows and with today's novel to the Family Aid Act or Childcare Money Act correct, eliminate certain so-called hardness cases – not all so-called hardness cases. And ‘so-called’, I also emphasize, because it is by no means about 150 cases, as Minister Haubner has once said, which have repeatedly said, supported by Minister Prokop, at least at a certain time, but this is about thousands of children and their mothers, who are now being better placed – essentially by the fact that family allowance and child care allowance are generally granted from the birth of the child, provided that, of course, family allowance and child care allowance are granted at all. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Call a case! We want to know a case!]] In other words, if the bureaucratic obstacles are large, if the bureaucratic obstacles are finally overcome by a mother with a non-Austrian passport, in particular by the establishment and residence law by a mother with a non-Austrian passport, and the so-called NAG card – the establishment and residence card – are finally in her possession, then family allowance and child benefit are paid retroactively until the child is born. This is an important and essential change and is diametrically opposed to what Minister Haubner not only wrote and committed in her adoption in August of this year, but she has refused to think only about a change in the law and has insisted on her adoption. With this novelle, the legal basis is removed from the Haubner decree of August – at least on this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second important new regulation – and this is about very many cases of children and mothers – is that the circle of entitled persons is extended, namely to a part – not to all but to a part – of the so-called subsidiary beneficiaries in Austria. That is, in short, people who have not received full asylum, but who cannot be moved to their home country for certain reasons, because they are threatened by torture, death or others. [[Abg. Scheibner: Those who have not received one, Mr. Cot! Not: “No fullness ”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Those who have been rejected!]] These are vulnerable workers in need of protection according to § 8 of the Asylum Act. This is also an important change in this novel, which is being decided here today. – Clearly, the BZÖ is also against this extension of the circle of those concerned by the hour. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because what you say is wrong, my colleague!]] In addition, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has called this point a non-equivalent point, namely that this group of people in Austria has so far been excluded from the scope of family allowances or childcare allowances. So far, so good, ladies and gentlemen. All of you, I suppose, have received a letter from President Küberl – Franz Küberl, President of the Caritas Austria – a letter dated 10. December – President Küberl appears to be only subject to the ban on Sunday work – in which he shows eight main problem groups of cases, which are not individual cases, but each concern a whole series of people. – The Caritas must know because they are constantly dealing with these cases. In my opinion, of these eight problem groups, we say, with a generous assessment, that three are actually more or less adjusted by this novel, the five others are not. I have no time to go into it, but, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I ask you to say in your opinions then, as you see it, whether it is contained in the novelle or not – I do not think – and how you intend to deal with this problem. – I quote literally: “At present mothers who have neither a weekly allowance nor can resort to a co-insurance are not insured without KBG’s reference! Their newborn children are not insured either. With retroactive granting of the KBG reference, this deficit cannot be corrected.” Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! Not insured in Austria, but perhaps only for three months, for six months or a period in this order of magnitude – that is probably not tolerable, and I suppose, even in your opinion, not. How do you think you can correct that? The agenda today contains an amendment by the Greens, who would also largely clean up such cases – not all in turn. But I have already announced that, at third reading, we will also agree with the initiative proposal of ÖVP and SPÖ because it includes a significant improvement in the status quo. Ladies and gentlemen, is this decided today because Christmas is at the door? - I don't think so. The irony of history wants it to be that, with its famous and well-known decree of August this year, the Minister of Social Affairs, Haubner, who is against today's innovation, has simply provoked and forced innovation if one wants to do so, namely by the pressure of the public, which has been slowly created over the weeks. My express thanks to the media, newspapers and other media, the week after week have reported cases that have arisen and exist in Austria on the basis of the Haubner Act and the Foreign Law Package. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All wrong! All wrong! Just like your case!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Call a case!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One case!]] On the basis of this public pressure, ladies and gentlemen, and for no other reason today, we have fortunately decided to adopt this novel of family support and child benefits. On the other hand, the Haubner decree is borne by a spirit that I can only call child-enemy and mother-enemy – of course as far as children or mothers do not have an Austrian passport. The Haubner decree is borne by the foreign exchange, which already already has a restrictive foreign law package as far as possible even more restrictively to interpret and produce hard cases where they would not have to be created from the law at all. So what's bad is getting worse by the Haubner decree. And not even before the violation of fundamental rights, the Haubner decree frightens back, for example, from violations of data protection. Ladies and gentlemen! Until this day, as far as I am aware, the Minister of Social Security, the Minister responsible for Social Security in Austria, is not willing to withdraw from her decision. It is not willing to initiate appropriate laws. ==References== She left us on November: As long as the BZÖ is in the government, this decree will not be changed! – Well, that hopefully has an expiry date, but I mean: The spirit, which speaks out of this law and in particular from the Haubner decree of August, is unbearable and particularly unbearable for a minister of social security! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A minister for social security who is completely disinterested in the situation of hundreds and thousands of babies and mothers in Austria, let alone in the elimination of this abuse, is unbearable in our opinion! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5465	The Members' request Van der Bellen, Oillingers, Friends is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5559	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very relieved that today we will be able to fix in a relatively short time a decree to be taken by Mrs Noch-Bundesminister, especially the inhumane effects of this decree over the last few months. This decree has rightly led to great public outrage, and we are rightly expected to ensure that this inhumane regulation is taken back and repaired. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Whom you have decided!]] This decree has meant nothing more than that women, young women who have been legally living in our country for many years, work here, pay their taxes, get a child, suddenly get no child allowance, no family allowance, not because they do not have a claim in themselves, but because they do not manage to create the necessary documents very quickly. That can't be! That can't be, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I've always thought throughout the public debate: What do you feel about it? What do you feel when you read what the few pages of paper you have published mean for people's lives? What do you feel if you are told that a mother can only feed your child with a piece of water and flour because she has no money at all? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I can't believe what you're saying!]] What do you feel when you read that another mother can only wrap her child with plastic sacks because she can't afford diapers? What do you feel when another mother tells you again, she came up after a few months: For God's sake, I didn't have insurance for myself and my baby!Unknown term type: "%s".? And every one of us who's had a baby at some point knows how to tremble, if there's only a little bit going on with the child, let alone something annoyed. That's not supposed to happen. I'm surprised you didn't say: For heaven's sake, what a mistake happened to me! How can I undo this to stop this suffering immediately? – How can Do you watch for weeks how young mothers with newborn children have to worry about this? How can you see that you cause tears, sleepless nights and so great despair? The public has expected you to act quickly. You didn't. They have been asked to withdraw this inhuman act immediately. Unfortunately, you have remained rigid and very hardhearted, Mrs. Federal Minister. And do you know what a lot of people have been outraged about? – That you, Mrs Federal Minister, have been elected by the Austrian electorate many weeks ago by you personally and your policy that you have done in recent years. You are only more assigned by the Federal President to carry out business provisionally, but you no longer have such serious decisions to make! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] You don't have to do this anymore! I understand that the Green Group expresses its distrust to you. I would also like to express my full support for political distrust, but we will not accept the Green Group's request. The voters have already expressed their distrust to you. You have been elected for such a policy! [[Abg. Scheibner: How many mandates have you won?]] And if we do not agree here, it really does not mean, Mrs Federal Minister, that we express our confidence to you, but that we are firmly convinced that the distrust expressed to you by the electorate weighs enough. And there will soon be a federal government that will no longer belong to you – and that with good law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unlike you, Mrs. Federal Minister, many people in this country have responded, shaken about what they had to read in the newspapers. There has been a great wave of willingness to help, and I would also like to express a very warm thanks to all people from this point of view that they have so spontaneously, immediately and generously donated, donated money, donated property benefits. It is always impressive how in Austria a wave of helpfulness is triggered. And these people rightly expect us to stop this abuse and fix the matter here in Parliament once and for all, whatever we do today. The simplest solution would have been to withdraw it. You didn't do that. The next simplest solution would have been to speed up the regulation of the Minister for the Interior. That would have simplified a lot. It has come, but late, and today we are repairing it here in Parliament. This will mean that in the future all mothers who are legally living here in the country will be entitled to child benefit immediately after birth and family allowance, and this will also mean that the victims of your leave will receive retroactive payments in the last months following today's decision. The eligible guardians in Austria are also better placed. The UNHCR has rightly brought this to our attention. And parents who adopt children, adopt foreign children, will also benefit from this decision today and thus better put. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a coincidence that we decide just before Christmas, today here in the House, in the last session before Christmas. Nevertheless, I am very happy and relieved that we are able to get the most together, unfortunately not quite, the many young mothers with newborns who have not known in recent weeks how to live the lives, the worries, and that we are able to make it before Christmas that these mothers no longer have to have sleepless nights. I think there should actually be agreement in this House in the future that party-political small money should not be changed on the back of newborns and infants.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5665	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5687	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is interesting to me, because when I remember, I have to say that both SPÖ and Greens did not want the introduction of child money at all. You didn't want to think about mothers in our country in any way, help them, or pay them a child's money. You rejected the child's money! That's very interesting. [[Calls to the Greens.]] At that time, you even expressed the opinion that mothers don't need any child money at all. That was your original opinion. If it had happened after you, mothers in Austria would not have received sufficient support at all. So this whole debate is a bit of a farce, if you look out today and say: Not only citizens, not just EEA citizens – no, everyone who comes to us should automatically have the right to child money and family money! [[Abg. Oillinger: You're wrong-informed!]] If it goes after you – and this is exactly the bill that we have today – then every vacationer will soon receive a family allowance and a child's allowance if he is staying in Austria for four weeks. Everyone who comes to us should automatically be entitled to all social benefits. – That’s the way you want to go. And to that we say "Freeman" no! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need to rethink! FPÖ says that the social state primarily has to be there only for citizens – otherwise the social state is at risk! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oil: To servas! This is a racist social state!]] This is not racist, but there must be differences between citizens and non-citizens. There should be, first and foremost, the right of social benefits for citizens and EEA citizens, because it cannot be the case that every non-EU citizen who comes to us will be entitled to all social benefits from the first day! [[Abg. Oils: Not everyone!]] This cannot be financed and is to the detriment of all citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in the very situation, then, that suddenly the social state will no longer be eligible for funding, that the Austrian citizens will suddenly have to experience a reduction in benefits on their backs, because the money is no longer available. The number of persons involved in social assistance has increased in recent years. This is clear from the example of Vienna alone: More than 30 000 additional social assistance beneficiaries per year, because in the “red” Vienna with absolute SPÖ majority, the comrades then said that every non-EU citizen should be entitled immediately. That is the background, and that is exactly what you want to build up on Austrian citizens! We believe that we should finally create cost-truth, including in the area of immigrants, namely in the area of guest workers. We do not want immigration anymore – we are probably different from you. We say: There is now an immigration stop. Those guest workers who come to us should also have temporary social insurance for temporary periods, and there should also be a temporary unemployment benefit when visiting workers become unemployed. But it can't, as a rule, be that we feed the guest unemployed for years from our social pot, so to speak! [[Abg. Oillinger: We don't do that anyway!]] It can't be! This means that we should generally reconsider the system, generally rethink foreign law, generally rethink the social security system. This is precisely what we are talking about, and that is why we want to conduct this debate today, because there is a need for a fundamental change. We want a host worker social insurance, in which a basic medical care is also a matter of course, but not so, as obviously the other parties from red to black to green plan, that every immigrant should have a right to a municipal apartment from the first day, to all social special benefits, and even to all that should actually be granted to citizens. That's the difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are discussing today in this area, a few numbers, so that you know what sizes it is. It is currently about 170 663 children's benefits. We have 141 553 Austrian children's benefits and 29 110 foreign citizens who receive child benefits. Of these, 22,047 are third-country nationals and 7 063 are EU citizens. I don't want to say, This is to be a citizenship law and an EEA law. But why should any non-EU citizen have the right to family allowances and child allowances? This is an invitation to social tourism! Every mother who lives and learns about the Third World today will say: That's the schlaraffenland, that's where we're going! – And that’s exactly what you want! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is what the Austrian People's Party wants, because it has made the request today. – “People’s Party” should not be left at all Your party name, because this term is no longer appropriate for this ÖVP at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is highly problematic that the inclusion, as provided for in the application, should be granted to the eligible protectionists, namely those asylum seekers who have been rejected – who have been rejected because they either committed asylum fraud or have perhaps even been on the road as drug dealers. [[Abg. Oils: Have you seen a baby as a drug dealer?]] Those asylum seekers who have been rejected for legitimate reasons are to be the beneficiaries in the future! That's the background! In other words, there is no one case that you can mention here today that would be affected. There is no single example, not a single case of hardness that would otherwise be present. And that's exactly what you have to point out. You just showed out here today that there is no such thing as a single case of hardness, and you have not been able to present a single case. And that's exactly what it's all about, that's your goal. With you, everyone who comes to us should be entitled to everything! If I emigrate with my children today: Can I expect another state to take over the costs of children or family expenses? – Of course, if I emigrate as an Austrian citizen today, for example to Turkey, I have to stand up for my children myself! This is a matter of course! You can't expect the state to take care of everything! And if you speak of guest workers today, you should also see them from the point of view: Don't ask what the host country can bring you, but ask what a guest worker can bring to the country. – This should also determine the thinking. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That should determine our thinking, and that is why we also address this question in principle, and not only within the framework of this law, which we also consider to be the Husch-Puff law. It is also in our eyes a Husch-Fuch-Law. At the time, our MEPs, Barbara Rosenkranz, were right to vote against the Foreign Law. We want a general reorganisation of foreign law, but also in the field of the social state. And this very principle debate is not going to close us. Others seem to depend on multicultural dreaming and believe that we should invest our tax money not in the area of family promotion, but rather in the area of immigration. We have a different opinion about this. We believe that our tax money should primarily be returned to citizens that there must be investment for family relief programmes, namely Austrian families should finally be supported so that they can afford more children again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Why do Austrian families today have fewer and fewer children? - Because they can only afford one or two children. That is what we must do if we have social responsibility. That is where we have to start so that Austrian families can afford a third and a fourth child again. And that's been missed for 20 years – it's been missed by red and black for 20 years, because you've known we've had a birth neck for 20 years! For 20 years now, you know that fewer and fewer children are born in Austrian families, because families can afford fewer and fewer children. For 20 years, you have not invested the tax money enough in family relief programmes, but in the area of immigration. And at some point the Austrians – and they know more and more – realize this, and they really have a problem with letting them down like this and bringing about such a social failure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should remember a few numbers. Alone in the XXII. There have been 118,808 asylum applications in Austria – Austria is a top international leader! –, 40 188 open, unprocessed asylum procedures currently in Austria! The Federal Republic of Germany, with ten times more inhabitants, has only 50,000 open asylum procedures. This is also interesting, and on the alone one realizes that something is wrong in our country, in this Republic, also from the Federal Government. This has also happened to abuse, and precisely where abuse happens, where people are rightly rejected, you want to let this person benefit! Those who have submitted an application as asylum seekers and have rightly been rejected belong to Austria and do not think socially! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore generally saying that there is a need to rethink in this area, and we demand that identityless and illegal are in principle due in that country where they came from. That's a basic thing. If you attack them in the event of a cross-border crossing, they will have to be brought back to the safe third country. That's crucial! Biometric detection measures for asylum seekers must be used across the EU. The Federal Government should have done this even more. Asylum seekers have to be housed in facilities outside of agglomerations, not as you do, in Traiskirchen or in St. Georgen or elsewhere where the population is confronted with the problems. [[Abg. Marek: Have you ever been there?]] Yes, I was there! I have looked at this, and I have also seen how the people are afraid of it because they have been plagued on the streets because drugs have been sold. – Yes, this is a scandal for which you are responsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If there are criminal foreigners – whether asylum seekers or not – then they have to be rejected, then they have lost any right when it comes to the FPÖ, and until then that the “traumatisation” you have provided in the law up to now is a completely unnecessary exception and is rejected by our side. I mean, a traumatization can be treated not only in Austria, but also in other countries. So there's a lot to do, and the multicultural fairy tale country you're dreaming of has long failed. I mean, you should go seriously and think about it, too, because it is not in vain that displeasure in the population – and more and more Austrians, who also trust to articulate their displeasure, are trying to criminalize them when they express their democratic opinion and say that something has actually gone wrong in recent years. We will in all cases not let the FPÖ put us to death on this question, we will represent the Austrian interests here!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5930	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. She wished herself a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5951	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, your speech was dangerous in the near of a horrification. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, they have never heard of a generation development that there are more and more older people and fewer and fewer children. Children are welcome if they are legal here in Austria, and no one wants a social tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Once again to the law which is passed today: When a child is born in Austria, the mother or father is legally established in Austria and has a residence permit, it must and is treated as a child with Austrian mother/Austrian father. With the legal amendment to be adopted today, access to family benefits – childcare and family allowances – is reformed. For families established in Austria and for persons entitled to subsidiary protection – these are persons who are allowed to stay in Austria for humanitarian reasons – and whose children have now been made a clear rule in the Family Tax Compensation Act for the retroactive payment of childcare allowance and family allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a further relief by Mrs Liese Prokop, Minister of the Interior, by the amendment to the Implementing Regulation on the Law on establishment and residence: A birth certificate, a registration note, a residence card of the mother is sufficient for the newborn child to obtain a residence permit. By the way: This also applies to Austrian citizens and children. I probably have to submit forms where I live et cetera to receive family benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare and other family benefits are the best insurance for families with children. A recent study by the Institute for Higher Studies shows that in the old EU countries, Austria, the highest financial benefits for families are provided to Luxembourg, and even the SPÖ has admitted in the negotiations that we have the best social benefits in the family sector. To do so, allow me from the “Wiener Zeitung” of 9. ==References====External links== The quote comes from “Andreas Unterberger’s Not Completely Unpolitical Diary”: “While the ORF and the various left-wing politicians are constantly touching us with stories of how terrible the fate of the affected families is without child money, they had not addressed any deficits of this kind before the introduction of the child money. Although a lot more mothers had to come out without this help. The current insurgents, on the contrary, even criticised the fact that Black-Blue has also granted children’s money to uninsured mothers like students.” – Quotes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: President Prammer was there!]] Now for comparison: In 1999, there were 80 000 care providers and about 170 000 child care workers in 2006. And if Mr Caritas President Franz Küberl, whom I very much appreciate in some areas, now changes his mind in writing about the excellent network that does not exist for certain families, I would like to give him the way that we have a social network for families. He's supposed to be happy about what we decide today. In one point I would like to contradict his letter here as well: A release from the obligation to submit a residence permit for the child, as the Caritas demands, is not in question for us, since the procedure for the newborn children is already much easier, as we will decide today. And the presentation of a residence permit must actually be possible! I think we are on a good family policy path, and I would like to end by just losing a few words on yesterday's discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs: The statement by Mrs Terezija Stoisits on the Committee on Social Affairs that we Members would have an ugly parliamentaryism is not just annoyed, but she must be rejected. I think all Members – no matter what party they come from – work here according to best knowledge and conscience. Mrs Stoisits, this language is not worthy of an incoming popular lawyer! I hope, however, that the Greens will also take part in this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6015	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6036	Mr President. I think the 5 minutes will not be quite enough to deal with all the things that have occurred here, too. Mrs Kuntzl, you have already said a correct sentence: You said in your speech... – No, one, colleague Riepl! [[Abg. Riepl: Many!]] One that's enough, and that's bad enough! You said not to carry out such conflicts on the back of babies to change political change. - Right!, just: Why Make Is that what you are, Mrs Kuntzl? Why are you doing this? – I will give you the answer: You and some others have waited in your group and also the united left outside of this Parliament, have waited a year since the decision-making of the Foreign Rights Package, where you had major conflicts in your party and in your group at that time, until you can finally address this issue again, and want to re-connect this package of foreign rights package through this detour – babies abuse for their own political goals. This is really the background to this campaign, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] When Mr Van der Bellen spoke here – he is not here right now; the green banks are at all a bit shaky; so this issue is apparently not so serious and important – when talking about it, thousands of cases are always spoken of. And I'm telling you quite honestly: When I heard thousands of cases and babies now affected, I also said: Wait! If that is true, then there is a need for action. And we really researched there: Where are the thousands of cases, ladies and gentlemen? This has also been discussed in the Committee, Mrs Stoisits. We said: Bring the cases! Not a single case that could prove what you are saying has occurred, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth! Where are the “thousands of cases ”? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not a single case! Stoisits has not been able to cite any case!]] If, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, there are foreign citizens at risk of poverty in Austria, then this is probably to be solved in other ways, because if I interpret the foreign law laws correctly, then a corresponding maintenance – livelihood, employment – is necessary for the stay, for the residence permit here in Austria. It can't be so, it can't be an argument that someone only lives in poverty because for a few days or weeks he doesn't get any family allowance and no childcare allowance! There's something else wrong, ladies and gentlemen. This argument, too, is only protected. And, of course, you also point out the child care allowance as an argument for a change of law – a childcare allowance that you have rejected. That means: For the Austrians you did not want to decide, but now you take it as an argument and evidence to accuse the Minister of Social Affairs of unsocial behaviour. Mrs Sozialminister Haubner, we have also taken a close look at this: A mistrust against the Social Minister is being filed here because she... – What has she actually done, Mr Oillinger? Throw what? You're going to tell her what she's doing? [[Abg. Oillingers: You've heard that anyway!]] No, it didn't actually come out exactly why. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Van der Bellen said it!]] A mistrust request will probably be to be filed if, for example, the minister or a minister acts unlawfully... [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Good! Ah, illegal behavior! Wonderful! Then I'll explain this to you at once: What law did the Minister of Social Affairs break with this decree? Tell me! What law? [[Abg. Oillinger: The fundamental right to data protection, for example!]] You know very well that this decree has been passed on the basis of the laws. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Of course, because the original decree has spoken differently! The original adoption of the Minister for Social Affairs was in the direction that one naturally values the legal residence, no question, including that of the children, but that, if this legal stay has been established, these social benefits can also be paid retroactively. You know very well that the Ministries in question, including the Ministry of the Interior, have alerted the Minister of Social Affairs to the fact that this original decree is illegal. Now, of course, you can say that the law is not all right. Okay, we can discuss this, but the accusation that the Minister of Social Affairs has acted unlawfully is wrong. It has also had to change its original decision on the basis of the information from the Ministry of the Interior, because it has been said that only this decree is in conformity with the law. These are the facts! [[Abg. Oillinger: She has the decree to answer!]] In accordance with the law There are already mistrusts here in the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. Oellinger: Has the Minister of the Interior written the decree or the Minister of the Social Affairs?]] Mrs Stoisits! You should consider what this is a parliamentarianism. This is political campaigning, and you can still do that, the left can still do so in Austria, you have to admit. You can do this: politically camping, fear-making – and for that you are not too bad, even infants, even babies. Wonderful! To do this, you can only “gratulate ” you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Unfortunately, I have to say that the amendment tabled here by SPÖ and ÖVP goes exactly in this direction. It's not as bad as the Greens demand, because with them it would really be so that everyone gets these social benefits, whether legal or illegal. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's not true!]] Mr Van der Bellen, you mentioned this: The so-called subsidiary protectionists should also receive this. – Who, then, are the “necessary workers ”? These are those who have “not completely received asylum ”? Can you get “complete” or “half” asylum? There can only be one principle, Mr Van der Bellen: If someone is politically persecuted, then he has to get asylum and is in the basic care anyway, so he does not need child care money and no social benefits! - Or he's not. Those you think are those who have not received asylum, because they have misused the right, they should be postponed, but only because they cannot be postponed, for example, because they do not know in which country because they have thrown away the passports. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The Asylum Law!]] You want to give these social benefits to them now! – We do not want this, Mr Van der Bellen! There we differ, and we are proud of this distinction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Why don't you accuse the ÖVP?]] The illegality – and I have to tell you about the ÖVP – is promoted by the current regulation, because that was the sense of giving social benefits only to those who are legally staying here, and that this is also required of the children. [[Abg. Oillingers: Children and babies are not legal?]] It is, of course, a measure of integration, that there are incentives for children to be legally notified, that the appropriate passports are organised and that this will also be ensured accordingly. And that's what you're gonna do now. Austrian citizens are disadvantaged because this measure is aimed only at foreigners. If Austrian citizens adopt a foreign child, these rules do not benefit them. We would simply have regulated the law in such a way that, if you are legally resident, you can pay these funds retroactively. You have rejected this in committee. However, I would like to ask another question of principle. You can say: If the law is so, then it should be implemented. But I also ask the principle question: Why do you have to give all these social benefits to every foreign citizen in Austria? The European Union is always very strict in all these things, but even the European Union says that a five-year legal stay is required for third-country nationals. Then you have to give all these social benefits. And why is this different in Austria? At the time of the foreign rights package, it was said: The Constitutional Court sees this differently. I mean, that was more of a compromise within the SPÖ, so that one could agree here. I am in favour of integration, not a question. I recognise the need to give appropriate rights here. [[Abg. Ollinger: What about Westenthaler?]] – Mr Oillinger! You can save on this plate in your statements! I recognise that there must be the relevant human rights standards, not a question, but the social state is there primarily for those who are here for a long time in Austria who are citizens and who have also made their contributions to the social system here under EU law for at least five years. Then we would not have all these problems, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a sensible solution in the sense of the cisterns, but also in the sense of Austrian citizens. The campaign that you have carried out here, also against our Minister of Social Affairs, who has acted perfectly correctly, is more than transparent!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6320	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner has just been tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner, Dolinschek, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6368	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6389	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The debates of a number of previous speakers have shown me that it is not a matter of making a clarification in the law whether, after receiving the legal residence permit for a child, benefits should be repaid retroactively from birth, but it is about: Whether this foreign rights package should be changed or not And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a very serious discussion for me, which has also taken place in recent days and weeks. One has not spoken of this small segment, but in a very populist, but also very emotional way, one has mixed cases from asylum procedures, from procedures or situations where people are here in the short term, where people cannot carry out documents – for whatever reason – and has stylized them to a topic of the young children in Austria, the babies. [[Abg. Broukal: Right!]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, as a family politician in recent years, is not my responsibility and not my interest. That is why I say once again – and I said it yesterday in committee: We have a law to which – I stress it once again – three parties in this House have agreed and this provides that family benefits, family allowances and family allowances are bound by the legal residence permit in accordance with NAG. This is the situation, and I have the law as a minister. If Parliament considers that this law is not in order, then Parliament is on the move. [[Abg. Broukal: That was a government template, wasn't it?]] I have this law to comply with. For the decree, which is always spoken of: Take back a decree that is intended to be a “service guide” for the employees of the financial office and the local health insurance fund who have paid out these benefits and who are not a foreign law expert to withdraw a notice as an operating instruction in this way, nothing changes the law. That's the situation! I think we should hold on to all these emotions. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a family minister, I stand to see that all those who have a legal, solidified residence permit with us and can prove it receive family benefits. I am in favour of the fact that EU citizens are of course also being equated, and of course I also stand for the Austrians who live here. But I am not in favour of everyone coming to us and taking advantage of this, whether he is here for three months or four months, whether he is here illegally, and especially if he has an ongoing asylum procedure. For an ongoing asylum procedure secures people in the form of basic care, and this was also decided here in this House. Therefore, it has nothing at all to do with family benefits, child care and the like. I'll come back to the so-called gap. Many have been told that there is a great gap. In the discussion we were already so far, that it was said, for these children there is no family benefits at all. – That’s not true! We have a processing period of a few days to six weeks. [[Abg. Oillingers: That's not true either! They say the untruth!]] This processing period, one can now say, is too short, is too long, but we have it, because it is necessary to prove here, too, that people including their children are legally living here and also in the future have their food point here. The fact that there are cases where it takes longer is also clear. We have looked very closely at why this takes so long for some. It can't be that I'm bringing a child into the world in May, and then in August I'm thinking that I'm actually entitled to benefits, but my papers don't have together yet. That's what every Austrian mother has to do. Each Austrian mother must, if she wants to receive family allowances if she wants to receive childcare allowance, go to the Authority and claim her entitlement. [[Abg. Broukal: Five years!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That too, I believe, is a form of responsibility that we can demand from all citizens of this country. That seems very important to me. [[Abg. Oils: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have a very good network of family advice centres, which also advise those who come to us. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, they all screamed!]] Here I wonder: Where are these consultations, timely consultations that are necessary to enable a person to know why and when he is entitled to benefits? [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true anymore!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a country of high social benefits, especially family benefits. Look Take a look at the overview of the family promotion from the IHS! First of all in Europe is Luxembourg. In the second place is Austria. I say not only can we be proud of this, but we can be glad that it is so that we offer families with children a great appreciation in this form too. [[Abg. Oillinger: But then you almost starve toddlers on the other side! That's where I'd be ashamed!]] It is quite clear that a child in Austria benefits more than a child in Spain, for example. That's what we all wanted. It has already been said: The childcare allowance was the most controversial project in the past legislative period, and there were real ideological struggles here. Now, in criticism, it's strange that everything is focused on child money. Mr Scheibner has already said that if you have a legal residence permit with us, you must prove that he has an income. It used to be the case that the social assistance was sufficient. Now you have to prove an income – just like any other Austrian who, of course, is happy when he receives childcare allowance when he receives the family allowance. Here, too, we've made it the same way. Let us look at a standard family in 2001 – and I take a classic example: Father or Mother Alone MeriterIn, two children. At the time, this family only received benefits of € 3 904 per month or year, with family allowance, child allowance and care allowance, of course, only if you were employed. And a standard 2006 family, which means the same case again: Alone earner or single parent, two children, we have used a 2-year-old and a 6-year-old child to calculate, as in the first case, now gets €9 224 with the child care allowance. It's right and good that way. But we really need to see that these benefits get those who also have their food point and their life interest here. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm not talking about the tax relief at all. In 2001, the tax relief for a family in this formation brought €364, and now it brings €569. [[Abg. Oils: Save yourself that!]] My Dear Ones Ladies! I also spoke to the Caritas and I also received this letter. We will go through these cases together. But the Caritas also told me that the number 9 000 does not come from her. That's why I'm asking for one: Let's not talk about numbers that just don't vote, because we can't put everything in a pot! If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, express my distrust today, I have to take note of this. But you also express my distrust as a minister acting in accordance with the law. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] They express my distrust as a minister for a family policy which in recent years has brought financial benefits to such an extent that we are in the forefront of Europe and that we are giving above all those families that have not yet received them, including women and mothers who are not employed. [[Abg. Oellinger: You weren't a minister yet!]] They also call me distrust of better social security for women. Because in the discussion, it goes down again and again that the child care allowance includes periods of health insurance, periods of pension insurance, and even the completion of new – that is, all things that are within the meaning of the families that are legally living with us. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't do anything for that!]] And you are also expressing my distrust for a family policy that has introduced a lot of things that are about to relieve the need for people and support families in difficult stages of life. Therefore, I say to clarifications that are necessary when it comes to repayment – here there has been an amendment tabled by my party – yes to an equal treatment of the Austrian parents who adopt children from abroad – here we are doing something right and good – but no to an extension of the rightful circle and no to a easing of provisions that after a year, I believe, have ultimately proved well in the sense that those of our optimal benefits that are at home here have here a fortified residence permit that has the center of their life interest here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6607	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6628	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Minister, and if there were only four children, it would be four too much. You yourself have said that we are not talking about numbers – I agree with you –; we must see the people who, in my opinion, have come into financial troubles because of their inhumanity. I really find the debate we have held here today or which we have had to listen to very adventurous. If one has listened to the colleagues of the Liberals and the BZÖ, Mr Scheibner, then one has the impression – and I am just saying this because it really happened to me – that it is not, as you have said, a campaign against the woman minister, but it is a campaign which is about who of you is the better anti-foreign party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This has happened to me in your remarks. Untruths are mixed together. In my opinion, Mr Strache's speech has really been disillusioned. He spoke of asylum seekers, he spoke of himself as legally ceasing people, he spoke of all. They do not differ at all in your speeches. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Watch out!]] In this baby's decree, this non-social child's decree by Minister Haubner, we clearly speak of families, of people who are legally resident here. This decree is simple, I say now, very bureaucratic, it is much to overburden, it is evil if you want to say so, because it is clear that every child, Mrs. Minister, born in Austria by an alien, will only benefit from the family allowance and the child's allowance if the respective families have a residence permit. The children do not fall from heaven; the children do not bring the stork. And it's almost ridiculous to say that babies are entering Austria illegally. I really can't imagine you can think like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Haubner, you are a mother yourself, you always emphasize it, and you are a woman yourself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How many children do you have?]] – I also have children, I have two children. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – No, this is not nonsense, Mr Stadler, but with you, there are different kinds of children. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If anyone's here illegally, he'll be there illegally!]] There are children of Austrians, and there are children of non-Austrian citizens. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The right to claim is not the child, but the rightful person!]] But for us there is no distinction, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The call of the organizations, the Caritas, the Volkshilfe, the Church institutions and also the Federal President has clearly shown that many are against your decree. The helpfulness of the people in Austria has shown that your populist policy, your polemics on the back of foreign children, of foreigners and foreigners in Austria Thank God for not falling to a fertile soil. I am very proud that I am happy that the Austrians are like this, and I appeal to you and also to you, Mrs Rosenkranz: Give humanity a chance, give people a chance and above all give mothers a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6757	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I put the clock on the desired 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6779	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister Haubner, don't you feel a little lonely on the government bank? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have been aware for a few days now that there will be a discussion here in Parliament about the fact that a group of the National Council is mistrusting you with well-founded arguments. I ask you: Is it a great proof of trust if you do not even stand aside from your colleagues in government from the BZÖ today? I'm not talking about the ÖVP being absent. I'd have to sit here alone today as a minister. [[Abg. Scheibner: You will never have the problem!]] Mrs Bundesminister, your speech just before that has enriched the arguments, the reasons there are anyway to express to you the political distrust of what we are doing, and Alexander Van der Bellen has just given that reason. You have said that you are opposed to what SPÖ and ÖVP are planning to do to improve family and children's rights in Austria today, for example, eligible for protection, so-called small asylum. [[Abg. Street: Small asylum is not an asylum!]] That's what the Minister said to represent social issues here? Should I say, because you don't, Mrs. Minister! As a minister, you represent the concerns of certain groups, and in these particular groups you differ primarily whether they are Austrians or foreigners, and with foreigners you take the right to say that one is sympathetic and good to me, but rights should not exist. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! There's no difference between the greens!]] This, Mrs Minister, is now an additional argument, where I really express my full distrust to you, because this inconsistency on this point is, so to speak, the bulging on the i in the arguments. Mrs Minister, if it is not the arguments of the Greens that you take seriously here or even take note of, then as a member of the government, you should take note of at least international documents, international directives, which have joined Austria, which are always ratified and signed with large brimborium, such as the EU Directive on the International Protection of Refugees, where there are also subsidiary protectionists and which clearly states that there is no difference in such services. And we do it! And you're not different from rhinestones at all. Whether the BZÖ arguments or FPÖ arguments are, that's quite a coincidence. It's always the same in the core. I have to say, I am really looking forward to the day when no one will sit out of this right bar on the government bank, because that gives me hope that things will improve. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is what I said yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, especially Mr Steibl, who criticized me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs Steibl! Today I repeat it quite deliberately and clearly: What does a parliamentarian mean by missing parliamentarianism? – That’s what happened last year! Contrary to warnings from the Greens – well, that is our job – and against warnings from civil society, the church organisations, from experts who do not work for Mrs Haubner directly, but who have a certain degree of independence, a foreign rights package has been decided here in Parliament, where we have said that is wrong, that needs to be corrected. Now there is the insight to correct, but now take [[Abg. Strache: The law is too harmless!]] You do not know that the criticism expressed before was correct? – And this is bad parliamentaryism! And we also want to avoid this with the amendment, which Professor Van der Bellen has already explained in broad outlines, Mr President, which we are going to bring in today. Dear colleague Scheibner, I think you don't read newspapers, because if you read newspapers, you'd have been able to read the case stories. I also thank all those who have brought this to the public. You could have read this on the Green homepage months ago, but you can't read it because these cases and case reports have been read on our homepage for a long time. And now they were thanks to God also in the newspapers. It has been articulated by Cardinal Schönborn about the Federal President, about the closed civil society. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Politics comes to a right conclusion, but it does not pull it completely. And that's my criticism. It will be, Mrs Minister and dear colleagues of the ÖVP and the SPÖ, because this is a common request, from the lack of regulation that we decide today, to re-establish cases that will be dealt with by Parliament. Only one thing needs to happen, only one mother needs to have a child in the time period when she is waiting for the extension of her residence permit, her establishment permit. Then, under certain constellations, it is already entirely outside of this protection mechanism that it had previously had. Passing requires only that a mother has a serious birth and that all of this bureaucracy cannot do, and then she stands there and in the most extreme case without health insurance for her baby and for her. [[Abg. Strache: The basic medical care is always ensured in Austria!]] And this has happened in the past, this year, and that will happen in the future. We'd like to fix that before. This is our address, and we ask you to agree to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6898	I can only say to the Green Group that I have been struck by the fact that you are tabling an amendment. But this has not been done. If so, then one of the next speakers has to do it. The next item is the report by Mrs Marek, with a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6928	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Terezija, we discussed this yesterday in the Committee, I do not want to go into it again, but I am glad that the Greens are so perfect and always know everything and are completely flawless. But I think we will see the quality when the Greens eventually get embarrassed to be able to take over government responsibility. I can only say: Where work is being done, mistakes also happen, and it can simply happen in such a large act as the Foreign Law that it is only in practice with the handling of the law, with the implementation of the law corresponding points that have remained open that become obvious, and there one simply has to act. That is our understanding of responsible policy, and this responsibility we assume today and here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Although it is not the majority of cases, I must say: Every single case – and I would like to agree with the red speaker who said this before – every family that comes into a difficult situation for this reason is one or one too much. We want to help them, and we simply want to get under the arms with today's decision. I recognize the intention to grant social benefits to foreigners who are legally resident in Austria who have a legal residence permit within the framework of the new foreign rights. That was the purpose of the Foreign Law that we have decided. There was still a lot missing to be able to handle it exactly as it was planned. We'll make this clear now. However, it is not okay – Mrs Haubner, the Minister can and will not spare you this accusation – an ambiguity in the law, as is the case here, to interpret in such a drastic manner in the election campaign that it simply becomes extremely difficult for the affected for ideological reasons. I also had people in the speaking hours, where there were really bad cases. You personally would have been very affected if you had these families with you. I would simply like to remind you that you have made a conscious purchase of these hardships in the election debate and have deliberately approved them. And that's not all right, Mrs. Minister. [[Demonstrative applause with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am still very sorry that you are continuing this refusal even after the election, regardless of how it went out. I also find the position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which I can only say after the speakers who have spoken of the FPÖ since then - extremely right-wing, because what you are doing here is indecent, is contemptuous and contradicts everything we believe in in the rule of law of Austria. [[Demonstrative applause with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (significant to the speaker) Is this a green one?]] And if we take this decision here today and include foreigners who are legally resident in Austria in the childcare allowance, including family allowances, then this has nothing to do with multi-cultural dreams, as Mr Strache said. As part of today's decision, I would like to greet the Dulabic family in Graz very warmly. They got early twins in March, a dramatic situation, but only in August because of your decision and your interpretation, Mrs. Minister, got money for the first time. That was a dramatic situation. One of the twins had to be operated three times. The girls are well up and thrive. That's not your fault, Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm sorry. But now we've repaired it. They are now being helped and so are the many other families in Austria who are legally living here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7000	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz, with a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7022	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Green Clubman admitted it by thanking him for that. In the last few days and weeks we have experienced a huge campaign, which – the word has fallen – as I mean, in a very dubious, indecent way, it has now mobilised the strongest feelings before Christmas, a campaign that has run through babies, toddlers to achieve certain intentions. And this is on the table today. They extend the circle of social benefits. We're not! We will, of course, vote against it. [[Abg. Oils: Uh, clear!]] But you do. It's not about the so-called baby's decree. This word creation alone already shows the emotional – because you know that the Austrians are human, and you wanted to abuse it – that you raised here. What is really against it? . You, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and also of the SPÖ, of which I may assume that you are under obligation to the State and, above all, the Social State, have extended to calls from outside, from the UNHCR, the circle of those, the family benefits, that is, a core benefit of the social state. Yes, you did. That is to say, you have taken in the eligible guardians, as far as they are not in the basic supply. Now I could ask: Who knows exactly what a subsidiary protector is? I'm not gonna throw it before you. Not everyone can know. Members who are not directly concerned with this issue – of course I know what that is – do not have to know. [[Inter-call]] But I'm telling you: These are people who come here under the pretext of getting asylum, despite the extremely liberal legislation of Austria, still do not receive asylum, but cannot be postponed because..., and there are now several reasons. One is because they have destroyed their papers, another is because we do not realize that it takes back its homeland, and a third is because, for example, there should not be the principle of double punishment. So what does that mean? For example, someone – this is a common case, and you know that when you deal with this issue – will be fined in the drug trade and will be fined here. If he comes back to his country, and very often that is Nigeria, then there threatens him another punishment for this crime. A so-called double-punishment is thought to be inhuman, so he remains there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How many mothers do this concern?]] I would just like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to what kind of rule of law we are sending. If an economic refugee who wants to improve is coming here, applying for asylum and not getting it, but otherwise being on and on and on, a person who is okay, then he will be sent back. But if he has committed a crime for which he is punished at home, then he remains there, ladies and gentlemen, not even though he is a criminal, but because he is a criminal. Do you know you're sending this signal with it? - Good. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We're talking about pregnant women!]] But what is the real core here? The question is: What is the social state? What can he do? And what's threatening him? I can remind you once again that the social state is not a treasure of gold that lies somewhere, and the good, you, divide it and allocate it to it, and the evils, the human beings, we, do not allow anyone to participate in it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How many women are concerned?]] That's not the social state! The social state is, rather, the agreement of a solidarity community to stand for each other in certain situations, at age, of course, of sickness, of unemployment, of a different kind in the event of other fates, and even if one's own work does not produce enough to be able to live rationally. That's the social state, a convention! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also said that everyone who participates in this solidarity gives up part of his income and thus receives the assurance that, if he needs it, he is entitled to the same. That is, the social state is a cycle, a very sensitive, lavish cycle, which cannot be changed at any time from weighting. That's where it has to be. Those who enter at the present time, and those who take out at the present time, that must be in a balance. That means I can't stretch it out without measure. It's not possible. The social state is, and we all know that – you only decided today by amendment to grant the single payment to the members of the so-called minimum pension; first you wanted to save yourself, because it is missing in all corners and ends, yes, the € 13.9 million – because of immigration over the last one and a half decades has been enormously overburdened. We experience it with every so-called pension reform, which is actually a reduction. We experience it on many other points. Behind the currency, the social state needs to be rebuilt and modernised, there is actually a decomposition. And that is not something that we alone claim to be, but that also says significant economists. Actually, no one says anything else. For example, I could call Miegel, I could call Birg, but I mention Hans-Werner's sense, because he's been a frequent interlocutor in the "spiegel" lately. In the Federal Republic of Germany, your worldly comrades are not as nailed as you are. They say it's not together. What did you say recently? – “You cannot bring millions of people into the country if you leave the institutional conditions as they are today. The equalising wage policy, the development of the social state... and mass immigration: These are three things that just don’t fit together.” – That’s a fact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we run the process the way it runs: Freedom of establishment for every social state benefit, regardless of whether a citizen is a citizen or not, will result in the social state gradually being eroded, depleted, and will not give it any more. Expanding the social state means abolishing it. It must be limited by definition. It's not possible otherwise. Nor is it social to risk the social state as a whole. We will point out the rationale without interference from all the campaigns and all the accusations. The social state can only survive if it is reserved for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7131	The next speaker was Mr Keck. I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please. – 4 minutes. [[Abg. Keck: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 4 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7168	Madam President. Excuse me, Mr President. Minister! The emotions are going up – therefore also the promiseor – but one must also say that for seven years our Social Ministry has been holding a new name, called “Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection”. – This name is not worth the tablet it is written to. [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, stop!]] It's not the ministry, my own. Ladies and gentlemen, who are doing this label failure, no, it is the minister who is in charge of this ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] It is precisely these days that Mrs Minister proves that under her leadership neither social security nor the protection of generations can be hoped for. This is sad, Mrs Minister, because not only in the SPÖ has the social policy and thus also the work of this ministry a high priority, but also for our population this ministry is very, very important. After Sickl – I think you remember the luckless castle owner – and then this ministry again takes its head by you, Mrs. Minister. You have now finally profiled yourself as a “unsocial minister” with this decree, which you have issued. To make it clear to you what I am talking about, Mrs Minister – because it is said again and again: We need examples! – there are many examples of your decision, I call one: A colleague, he is a Croatian, is born in Austria, has attended the school and has lived in Austria for almost 30 years. He's going to work here and get to know a woman. She is also a Croatian, also born in Austria, lives here, works here. [[Abg. Strache: Why isn't he a citizen yet? Why is he not a citizen after 30 years?]] They live here with us, and they are looking forward to their first common child they will have. [[Abg. Street: After 30 years he has a right to be a citizen! Why isn't he a citizen?]] Both pay reliable taxes, they are integrated with us, Mr Strache, they are compulsorily conscious, but they are still being punished. [[Abg. Street: After 30 years, this person has a right to citizenship!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Probably he didn't want to go to the federal army!]] You are being discriminated against and punished by your decision, Mrs. Minister, for you have made sure that the first thing you have done is to pay the childcare allowance only after the NAG card has been presented – that may take up to six months, because anything can happen – and that, for me, this is the bigger thing that has happened – the newborn child would not have been insured. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Citizenship includes not only rights but also obligations!]] His parents would have had to bear high private medical costs with this decree, as he came, if they could have afforded it at all. Only when the so-called left, as it is always called here, cried out, did that change. The doctors said they're going to take over these costs. If we hadn't done that, it would have stayed that way. Minister! UNHCR, Caritas, SOS fellow human being, the President of the Federal Republic and the Cardinal have told you that. [[Abg. May. Hauser: If someone is here for 30 years,...!]] I'm wondering, Don't you listen to these institutions? You don't listen to these people? You don't care about these opinions? Because of a few hundred euros, which are often the last protection against slipping into the poverty trap for the families concerned, do you risk social peace with such a decree? With today's change of the Family Allowance Act and the Childcare Money Act, we correct your non-social error. Ladies and gentlemen! On the polemics of the BZÖ at the Committee meeting yesterday: There, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Dolinschek, has indeed said that if there were no such decree, it would be illegal to bring children across the border so that they can cash the childcare allowance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that happens!]] Mr Dolinschek, I am already curious about whether, from today on, when we decide this law, towers with hundreds of strollers, because that is only newborns, about babies, can come across the border to be able to cash children's money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] I can only tell you: This adoption should help only a false ideology and exclusion, deintegration, to break through. This is really a party-political ideology of the BZÖ, and we will fix this wrong decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7309	Mrs Haubner spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7331	Dear Mr Keck! You have now mentioned a specific case here. However, I would like to say: If a Croatian fellow citizen, who has been in Austria for so long, who is stuck here, receives a child and lives in a community of life or marriage to a woman, the child is of course insured with him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] - That's one. The second is that the mother-child pass is valid for all children here in Austria, regardless of how long someone is here where he comes from.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7364	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. I put the clock on the desired 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the task of giving you first of all the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, introduce friends. What is the point of this amendment? – In principle, all children here legally resident in combination with their parents having their food point in Austria – have their food point in Austria! – to receive child care and family allowances here too. So these two points are covered by the application: Children legally reside in Austria and parents have their food point here. – This is the clarification and explanation of the amendment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I am also in favour of the answer to you, Mr Strache. Holidaymakers do not have their food point in Austria. [[Abg. That's probably what you want! That's what you want! Everyone who is not Austrian should get everything from you! All rights, but no obligations!]] Mr. Strache, sell. You don't want the public to be stupid! You have a food point in Austria, if you live here, if you have an apartment, if you work here, if you stay here for a longer period like the Austrians. [[Abg. May. Hauser: That was a record, please!]] That's it. But this has nothing to do with vacation at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You want to give it to everyone!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The food point is also available in Austria, if you sit in the heel’n!]] May I tell you something, Mr. Strache? – Little children are never illegal. It's not about the drug dealers that keep making you shimmer through this again and again. [[Abg. Rosary: The child is not entitled to refer!]] Surely it's not about drug dealers, because little kids don't deal with drugs. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But legally applicable adults are always!]] All young children who are legally resident here in Austria should therefore have the right to social benefits, like everyone else, if their parents have the food point here in Austria as well. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Get the babies now...?]] This principle, which was also represented by the EIA, for which I am very grateful, which the SPÖ has also represented, should not be shaken! We do not want to have a more-class right, as you want, where there are Austrians, to receive social benefits where there are host workers, who then almost no social benefits, where there are between EU citizens who are likely to have to receive a little more – you have already forgotten to say that they are in principle equal – and where there are other groups that should not receive anything at all. [[Abg. Street: Citizenship rights we want!]] [[Abg. Strache: I didn't forget that! You haven't listened to that once again! That's where you have to open your ears!]] – We don’t want five or six classes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I would like to speak to you, Mrs Federal Minister, also to the motion for a reluctance, also to what Mr Scheibner has called for. I must say quite honestly, Mrs Federal Minister, I would not have trusted you with the communities in this decree as a person. I have always experienced you as someone to speak to – clearly, already with certain points of view, but who has not experienced this harshness of Mr Westenthal, even this perfidy on certain points, as she has publicly formulated Mr Westenthaler. – Deport 300 000 people, that's perfid. That wasn't your way to talk, to argue. But I tell you, Mrs Federal Minister, that what's in this decree is on the other hand, it's evil. Mrs. Federal Minister, first of all, you: It's only about one to six weeks. – So to speak, the difference between the application and the time from which you receive the child's allowance. [[Interference of Federal Minister Haubner.]] You know as well as I do, this refers only to the request from the Financial Office for Family Aid, but not to what these groups otherwise have to do! You yourself, Mrs Bundesminister Haubner, write in your decree – in this evil decree, I can only say it this way: Due to the complicated procedures of foreign authorities, there is considerable time-consuming discrepancies. – Too considerable time discrepancies! And you tell us here, it only takes a few days anyway?! – Yes, this is really on the back, Mrs. Federal Minister! That has nothing to do with reality. They are trying to provide Parliament with untruths as well. We won't take that. Read your decree! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point, Mrs Bundesminister: One can criticize a lot, one can criticize the bureaucracy contained in this decree, the malice contained in this decree – and I would advise everyone and everyone to read it – because this decree in principle classifys all applicants covered by the foreign law package as suspicious. But I'll tell you one thing: If the authorities are entitled by this decree to demand from applicants that, in order to be able to prove their food point, they also disclose mobile data and data on bankomat withdrawals if the authority so requests, and the Minister of the State authorizes the authority to request it! – then this is unwarranted! And that's where the train runs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's illegal! The Federal Minister is not entitled to do this. This is a constitutional right, and the Federal Minister could only change this constitutional right to information and data protection by means of a law – that is not the case. There are clear conditions, but the Federal Minister says: Yes, if there are people who are concerned, they will make it voluntary anyway! – No, that’s not how it is, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister really deserved that she be denied confidence, and that is why I would like to inform you of the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is really appropriate and highly necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7620	I announce that the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger has just been tabled. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and have also been explained in his key points; he is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7789	The further motion for a resolution tabled, Mr Oellinger, is already under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. Your speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7813	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is an exciting debate that we are having today, and it is a very sensitive issue on which this debate is taking place. We have heard very positive about the Austrian family benefits. And if we hear that we are in second place, then of course it makes us proud, but if there are deficits – which have occurred on the basis of this decision of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs; and we all did not realize at the time when this law was passed, which cases are hidden – then of course we must try to repair it. And that's exactly what's going to happen here today. I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Rosenkranz, who has spoken here of criminal asylum seekers who should in future be considered social benefits through this repair, and who also questioned the eligible protectionists and asked how far they should get into these benefits: We are talking here of newborn children, of children who are really in need of protection, the need for help, who are defenseless and who, of course, are also entitled to family benefits if they are legally living here in Austria. They should, of course, also be entitled to benefits with respect to the mother, where up to now there have been great difficulties, bureaucratic obstacles, which have prevented these benefits from being collected immediately, and which have led to huge financial losses for these families, in particular in the area of child benefits, because after a long time entitlement to family benefits and, above all, to child benefits. It is about the little children, it is about closing a legal gap here, and that is why we welcome these repairs that are being made today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7850	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 11 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I notice today in the debate: With the exception of the FPÖ, no one is dealing with the real facts at all here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You're obviously all living here in a dream world, and if you put your head in the sand, everything's gonna be all right. Especially on the part of the SPÖ, the Greens, but also the Blacks, it is noted that they are madly pushing on the tearing gland in their words. Allow me to say: I just missed the fact that there is sobbing violin music here so that we all have to start crying. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: Do you know you're in the National Council?- Oh, my God!]] What about the haubner decree? - Well, what do you want me to say, Mrs. Minister? You've actually been asleep for a few years, and now you've finally made a decree in a Husch-Fusch action that's made so diletant that it really delivers the multi-culti visions also ammunition. [[Abg. Steibl: You are in Parliament!]] If we look at the exact figures presented yesterday by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Committee, we can see that the cases that have not been completed are about 500, and the ministry is well-known. I tell you quite honestly, in view of these figures, your hysteria is really not understandable here. It is really a hysteria that you are here – combined with a social romance; especially you, Mrs. Stoisits! - give it the best. That reminds me of a kitsch film. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is not even an event legislation!]] You're really pretending to be the Republic before the state emergency! You're going to set up tragedies here that aren't! Do you know what a tragedy really is? – A tragedy is this immigration policy, which we have here in Austria – a immigration policy that our clubman has already beaten in his speech today. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] For this reason, we request from the FPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it would be a good thing if you all agreed to this request, because then we would finally have a cost-effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7984	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8048	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8069	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have now followed the debate. Dear colleague Oellinger – he has escaped from me – it is not exactly elegant when the Greens now – and this is my personal impression – want to beat political capital out of this situation, trying to blame the entire misdeed, so to speak, on the legalism of foreign law. This is a shame, because we are changing the law on child care and the family allowance law today. Actually, in the argumentation of the Greens, one gets a little the impression that it's more about agitation and not so much, dear Teresa, to a constructive co-operation. Colleague Strache – he is not here either – today presented his demands very emotionally. I remember a little bit – I've been in this house for quite a long time: I almost heard this wordident of one of his predecessors 15 years ago about here. So that's an old-fashioned theory. One thing you have to say, ladies and gentlemen: It's about people, and it's a fact that those who are legal in the country that work here are also included in the social system and therefore also entitled to benefits. The position of the FPÖ is therefore really incomprehensible and not exactly one that is characterized by human kindness. Mrs. Bundesminister Haubner, you said that you were concerned that this debate could lead to advocating the foreign rights package. I appreciate that the foreign law package will be evaluated in such a way as any law – and there has been at least agreement in the coalition talks – and it will be looked at and developed in the EU comparison according to best practice models, which I think is positive. This is a sensible project and also gives the opportunity to correct any mistakes, any weaknesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the execution of this legislative matter could in all cases have brought more discretion to the competent minister, especially through a duly worthless interpretation of the law according to the intentions of the law. Without a doubt, this would have been possible in the sense of the persons now concerned. Unfortunately, the current Minister for Social Affairs has actually missed this sense of mind and has chosen the path of populism. Why do you think? – Because, of course, the BZÖ is fighting for survival. It seems that the BZÖ, colleague Scheibner, is again increasingly attached to this supposed trump card of the Ausländerresstiment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only “seems”! You're right!]] That seems to be the case. It's clear, ladies and gentlemen: Fortunately, the population has seen it differently – the corresponding articles have already been addressed in the newspapers – and there is a wave of willingness to help within the population. The situation reminds me a little of the time in Advent a few years ago when Minister Strasser wanted to put asylum seekers on the street at the time of Advent. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] I think ladies and gentlemen, the thing is being repaired today. The ÖVP has become aware of public pressure – that is good, that is to be supported. [[Abg. May. Molterer: From whom did the proposal for initiative come, Mr Parnigoni?]] It is a fact that we, ladies and gentlemen, are on the part of the SPÖ for legal participation in social services in Austria – illegal, of course not, that is not a question at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the phase of the political cold is over and that, as social democrats, we are at all events contributing to the return of the people concerned to their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8132	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8153	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Parnigoni said he was missing constructive cooperation with the Greens. – Mr deputies, if you understand that you agree to a human rights-absorbing package presented by ÖVP and BZÖ – as the SPÖ has done – then you are right to let this be missed. If one understands that we also point to shortcomings in today's repairs, which we will have to repair – and that is not only what we say, that is also independent experts – then I would say that is constructive, and that is what we have done. If you don't pick it up, it's your responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the comments we have heard from FPÖ and BZÖ today, we can only say: If you are not involved in word fights with each other – what you would like to do anyway – or in other fightings, your favorite sport is the mirror fighting. They paint a terrible, great horror that you invent freely on a mirror and fight it violently. Have fun with it, but let's spare it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: By attacking the Social Minister...!]] What you mean by justice, what your concept of fairness is, it has become quite clear: People who have not been born in Austria but who live here, work here, pay taxes here, contribute their social benefits here, should not receive social benefits! This has been very clear from you. We say: No, every person who gives us a solidarity here, every person who is integrated, every person who has a legally established stay, should, of course, receive as much social benefits as Austrians, who have all of this. How you deal with the truth or what your version of it is, it has become quite clear. You won't really want to tell me all the serious that armies of pregnant or breast-feeding women are secret drug dealers! - Where are we?- Oh, my God! Please stay on the floor and throw Don't tell us that we have something to do with babies – it's about the gap from newborn to NAG card reception, that is, about the age of zero days to about six months in current practice – as babies! There are no young people coming to the world! They're not adults coming to the world! And we want to take care of the babies who come to the world while you say they have no right to social benefits. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: The right-wings are the adults!]] To the Minister of Social Affairs, who seems so surprised that she can be distrusted. Mrs. Minister, my colleague, Mr Oellinger, has already already executed to you that your decision is not only malignant in his intention – I would join him – but is also unwarranted. That alone would be enough reason for the distrust request. If I have listened to your speech, I think you obviously do not want to use the expertise you have – I hope so. They have told us all today that, for example, there must be equality between Austrians or not born in Austria, but here living people, when it comes to child care, because it is bound to an income. Please call me an Austrian, where the child care relationship is linked to an income! That was just your innovation you were so proud of. Then you also stand by and do not make this the condition for non-Austrian women! You, Mrs Minister, have produced today – after you have been shown to mention not only the Greens but many other organizations and affected cases, where there is hardness, where there is an unfairness, where no childcare allowance, no family allowance is paid, no health insurance is provided – and have you said that no one case is known to you?- Oh, my God! One cannot have such a great memory wound from one day to another at best. If you also claim that you have the basic provision in asylum anyway, then you obviously do not know that there are people in the asylum-seekers' status, who are not in the basic care, and secondly: Let us stay on the ground of reality! They say if you get something to eat anyway, a bit of money to buy something to wear, you don't necessarily have to have childcare money to care for the baby accordingly, and don't have to be sure that baby and mother are at least sick. How do you imagine that? Take as an example a woman who brings a child to the world too early, works here, legally stops here, pays her social benefits, is alone and loses the job because she has no baby care and needs to care for the baby and no one else has. This is after six weeks, i.e. after the end of the weekly allowance, without health insurance for himself and the baby. We know that premature births are particularly susceptible to disease. Is this the fairness, justice and humanity that Austria has to offer to all the people who live here? I would therefore ask you, at any rate, to withdraw your decision immediately and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Your xenophobia should stop at least in front of children!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8243	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Ollinger, Mrs Freunden, has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8308	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8329	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We from the BZÖ stand for this right of foreigners. We stand by and keep this line because it is a foreign right that is an effective means against the carefree immigration policy of the nineties – we see it because of the lower immigration – and because we see today that in the SPÖ and under the leadership of the SPÖ after the 1. In the immigration policy on October, it appears that a clear paradigm change is already taking place. [[Abg. Street: 300 000 immigrants have you to answer in five years!]] [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Ackerl from Upper Austria tells us that he even wants to see all the asylumers before the 1. They have come to Austria on December and have no asylum status at all, legalize it. We abolish the asylum law, the Upper Austrian SPÖ Council demands. Madam President, Mr Prammer lets us point out that you now want to start by evading the rights of foreigners and making massive changes. This is the SPÖ leadership policy! I am not sure, Mrs Prammer, that the voters will be on 1st. October wanted you to take a step back to the nineties, where hundreds of thousands of people came to the country and, so to speak, immigrated into our social system. – We do not want this, Mrs Prammer, and we want to prevent it, and that is why we stand on these laws, on this right of foreigners! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: 300 000 additional immigrants have been there in the last five years!]] Family benefits and social benefits are mainly to be provided to Austrian citizens living here, working and paying in social security. Yes, they are there for that! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] I will give you the right to do so, Mr Strache. Only: You also have to pay attention to the legal framework, and they are saying that a five-year stay makes it possible to benefit from these benefits because you are permanent. That is why our request, which we have tabled, is also factually correct. In fact, your request, which you decide today in your first major coalition decision, is not correct at all. This request makes it possible for not only illegal foreigners to be paid out family and social benefits, but also – and that is really incredible! – rejected asylum seekers. I see this as a scandal – in the light of the fact that you say you don't have enough money for 170,000 Austrian mothers who don't have a pension at all. You go through this scandal in the light of the fact that you reject the five percent increase in the care allowance for Austrians, whom we have requested today, on the grounds that there is no money for it. On the other hand, decide They today provide social and family benefits for rejected asylum seekers, among whom, of course, they can also be drug dealers and convicts. They also go through the background that we cannot decide today on heating aid for Austrian families who would need this money – because you are against it. This is a scandal, and that is the first really great scapegoat of this approaching great coalition here in the High House. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot be loud enough! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Greens now come with hard cases, and the best thing about it is that no one case of hardness could be put on the table – by the way, neither from the alleged quality newspaper “Kurier” nor from the ORF. All the cases mentioned are wrong, do not refer to the adoption of the Minister. The Greens have introduced a case by a family that supposedly does not pay any family allowance, the famous baby Estella case, so I call it now. They have said that the decision will be taken and that no family aid will be paid. We looked at this. Do you know what the truth is? – The mother is a rejected asylumant and therefore has no claim to this service. The father is an Austrian citizen, receives family allowance, and has not sought child benefit until today because he is above the limit of commitment and deserves enough. [[Abg. Oillinger: Should the father also stop working?! That's beyond!]] That's what it was. Your example! You want to put the blame on the Minister now, although the decision cannot be taken. That is the method you work with: with false arguments, with false examples, with cases that do not apply! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm because we're thinking about what happens to hard cases. I like to look at that. I'm the first one to say, In the case of deportations and asylum, hard cases are to be looked at. I was in Upper Austria also before the election and knew the case of the family in Grein, which is integrated in the country where the children go to school, where the community is for them to stay here because they are all integrated because they observe the laws because they work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] I'm in favour of this family not being postponed, but getting the right to stay. But I am equally in favour of you working with fair arguments and not acting with false examples and then making a mistrust against the Minister of Social Affairs. [[New call for tender May. Stoisits]] That can't be! That is why I say to you: Yes, social benefits, family benefits in the future are stronger for the family and for those foreigners who are long in Austria and are residing in Austria – but not for all, because then we cannot afford heating subsidies, provide no care money and do not pay any mother's money. We are reliable partners for the Austrians in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8468	That was the last speech in this debate. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the family allowance law and the child care allowance law into 20 of the supplements. For this purpose, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which has the content of the amendment to Articles 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who stand for it to be a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection in accordance with Rule 74(l). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. 2. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of this House of the constitutional provision quoted here. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the restriction of family benefits to third-country nationals. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the preparation of a study on the cost-effectiveness of immigration and the impact on the social state. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Oellinger, Mrs Van den Broek, on the withdrawal of the illegal adoption of child care allowances from the Court of Justice of the European Communities. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 21 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. [[13:07:55]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 30/A by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz (17 of the supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 35/A by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law establishing a heating compensation fund (Heizkostenstahlungsfondsgesetz) (18 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8652	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Haidlmayr spoke. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8682	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the historic chance that the care allowance will finally be valorised regularly since 1996. This opportunity to improve people with disabilities is not being used in this House – not used because SPÖ and ÖVP are against it. And that is a pity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The improvement in the care sector would be a necessity that we have been aware of since 1996, and this has not been done. There are several reasons why they do not agree with each group. Mr Stummvoll and Mr Molterer said today in their first speech that Austria's policy was good and we could afford to give more. And the Lord stupidly said yesterday: We no longer give in the field of care, because child money is not valorised either – so you won't get anything! That the SPÖ rejects it, I think it's much, much worse. I made the effort yesterday evening and I was being printed by the spokesperson for the disabled at SPÖ, Mrs Lapp, from November 2002 to December 2006. There were 68 word donations in the form of press releases only for the valorization of the care money. Lapp: Care allowance – social incompetence if not increased. The “European Year of People with Disabilities” was very disillusioning for Austria: Care money is not valorised again. Government leaves the disabled on the waiting bench: no valorization of the care allowance. And so on and so on. I could give you a lot of press releases here. Today we would have the chance to get a care money increase – but the SPÖ says no; that is a quick shot. If after four years the demand for an increase in the amount of care – including the SPÖ – is a “quick shot” to increase the amount of care now, then I think there is nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8739	Mr Dkfm has made an actual correction. Dr. Stumblingly reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8764	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr has just said that I meant yesterday in the Committee on Budgets that the care allowance will not be increased because we do not increase family allowances either. – That’s wrong! The right thing is: In yesterday's debate, I pointed out that there are transfers that are evaluated annually, and others that are not evaluated annually, such as the child's allowance and the care allowance. I also mentioned that we would all allow the disabled more care money, the families higher family allowances, the pensioners higher pensions, but of course we have certain limits of financial viability.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8797	That was exactly a word message. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That was a correction!]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8829	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are dealing here with a BZÖ application. The BZÖ is the government party that took place at the last election on 1 January. ==References====External links== They will probably have already packed the moving boxes in the ministries – and now the BZÖ becomes brave and demands a heating grant and the valorization or increase of the care allowance. In recent years, when you were responsible, you have always lamented the fact that the Minister of Finance does not give you an agreement that you will try to negotiate it in the government, and in the end you have brought together only once a two-percent valorization. This is really a very thin balance sheet. And now that you already have a foothold out of the door of your soon-to-be ex-ministeria, looking at all your moving boxes, give a farewell concert, which is really a sad one. Disabled people and people in need of care do not need grueling words, but they are concerned with making policy a clear concept and a clear package. Dear colleague Haidlmayr, it can't be that you say now: We have now made a valorization of the care allowance, and that is what it is all about, and all disabled people in Austria are supposed to be satisfied with it and, as it were, to be satisfied with it! We are pursuing a different policy! It is extremely important for us to have total packages tied, because we are thinking in detail. We are not concerned with setting up a demand with a fever, but we have clear ideas. This is from the 24-hour care and care, the support of caregivers, to the expansion of mobile services. Of course, the valorization of the care allowance is still an important point. You mentioned before, Mrs Haidlmayr, that this is a very big concern to me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Apparently not!]] And you can be assured that I will continue this path in the coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8871	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8893	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It does not deny a certain irony, one must almost say, if the ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ now discover their social conscience, something in the form of a demand for a heating grant. [[Abg. Scheibner: Until half a year ago you were there too!]] From the friends of the ÖVP, on whose lap they have been so to speak, they are now being thrown off pretty slowly, and I understand that this is hurting, especially since you are going to go into the annals of this Second Republic as something quite different. The colleague Westenthaler is much, much less social revolutionary than one of the fellow architects of a balance sheet that is sad. There are the following to be mentioned: Record unemployment, record immigration, record poverty. And there are certainly a few more things going on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why doesn't anyone listen to you in your own party? Only two people listen to you!]] Of course you also have to say: The request you have made here is as diletantic as well as over-happy and as muffled as much as you have done politically in the past and are also responsible for it. It's once more being than appearance. But let us not be like this, Mr Westenthaler, I even agree with you that: After all, you have realized that you have brought people into a situation with the course you have to take with you, which clearly makes it necessary to send them for all basic things. At one time the energy belongs to it, as the fuel is pretty slowly part of it, and it will not take much longer until the apartments belong to it. You led the people there. I would also like to say one thing: There is the interesting question – this is also to be addressed to the SPÖ and the ÖVP in this context; one has to look at it a little more fundamentally –: For example, how is it possible that the electricity price on the stock market, where the large energy supply operators are covered by electricity, is now 30 percent lower than it was in November 2005, and nevertheless companies, such as the black EVN in Lower Austria, make a power price increase of 8.6 percent. The Reds in Vienna are no better. There is a electricity surcharge of 6.3 percent from 1st. January – and all of this, although these companies are excellent and have great operating results. However, they do not seem to pass this on to consumers. We are certainly in favour of helping in the form of support, such as in the form of heating costs, if they are sensible and thoughtful – but not if they are halfhearted if they are not thought through when they are opaque. In fact, what you present to us here is nothing more than a fund in which you may want to “hold ” some that you haven’t provided so far. That's what you've been up to perfection in the last weeks and months – up to the brutal perfection! – have operated, but it is not a real solution to this problem. That is why we will not agree to this request either. If you have anything to do with getting a proper solution, you can talk to us at any time. But a pre-Christmas hustle to a peace of conscience, we will certainly not support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8945	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8967	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Federal Care Fund was introduced in 1993 and can be referred to as a social policy milestone. He has developed himself over Vorarlberg – I expressly call the head of state Purtscher at this point – and over Upper Austria – I expressly call the head of state Dr. Josef Ratzenböck – where at the level of the country this federal care allowance, which was then developed in this direction, has been introduced and has proved to be true because one has seen that there has been a social gap, and it has finally been filled with spirit and life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to do this today with €1,573 million, and I can also inform this House in Schilling: These are at least 21.5 billion schillings, which are spent for our elderly people or caregivers with the care levels 1 to 7. Demographic development shows us that in the next few years, we will be getting more problems that we have to solve, but which, in my opinion, are quite soluble. The number of over 60 will rapidly increase, and I therefore believe that it is a very essential task of the Federal Government and, of course, of this Parliament to develop an overall package of old-age care. Of course, this overall package will also discuss and decide on the relevant valorizations, increases and the like. It is always too little, Mrs Haidlmayr, but that is, I believe, also the task of the opposition, and so do the Greens. The Greens have deliberately said: We do not assume any responsibility in this House, we are not willing to think about any kind of government. - That's her right. That is why it will probably remain in the opposition role in the next five, ten, 15 years. That's all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] One may, Mrs Colleague, point out the social desires and needs here, but the difference between a federal government and an opposition is that the opposition represents a programme of wishes – every achievement in itself is justified! – but the government must assume responsibility, dear green opposition party, and that means then select from those areas which are declared the most important. Finally, they must also be eligible for funding. One thing has to be clear to us: Social policy, dear green opposition, has its limits where the costs must be repaid by our children and grandchildren. That's exactly that limit. More simply, for your understanding: Only what is there can be distributed! And here it is precisely up to us to put in place the appropriate measures by means of wise government decisions. I therefore believe that it is very likely that the increase in the care allowance will also have to be considered. We know it was 5.73 percent and 1. January 2006 increased by 2 per cent, and consideration should be given to: How do we deal with this in the future? But this must be part of an overall social package and must be developed together so that the priorities here in this House can be agreed together.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9027	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9048	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I wanted to say something about Mr Kickl's comments, but he apparently found this matter to be so important that he suddenly left the house. I just wanted to tell him that when he wrote speeches for Dr. Haider, he formulated better than he did today when he himself stood out here. Not even his own group should have been interested in it, because in part only two or three people were present in his group during this debate. - Okay, that's your problem. It seems to us that this debate is more important than social democracy, which is also the last leftovers of a group here today, which obviously does not even seem to be interested in what is going on in the form of care and heating aid. – Interesting! Should one also tell people that when it comes to the SPÖ, it is simply not there. [[Abg. Broukal: But you're missing half, you'll see!]] We discussed this in the Committee. I was in the committee. Very good. I went to the committee... [[Abg. Broukal: I'm here! Where are your people?]] Mr Broukal, the country's great social rights reformer, has now also spoken. Mr Broukal, if you're sitting here in this clumsy round, it's clear to me that you may be looking back at the golden times of the ORF, where many people have been watching you. That's not the way it is today. You're sitting here pretty alone today and leaving, and apparently that's your problem. [[Abg. Broukal: I share this fate with you, which is more conciliatory to me!]] We are concerned that we continue to discuss the miscarriage that has been discussed and forgotten in the election campaign – it is a forgotten matter from you from social democracy, but also from the other parties – because it cannot be that a request for legalisation of illegal caregivers alone is the solution to the need for care and the care abuse that you have called out. [[Abg. Broukal: Where are your people, Mr. Westenthaler?]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That can't be it, that can't be the only measure, but something has to happen. Yesterday, many relief organizations, the Volkshilfe, the Caritas and the Diacony, demanded that the care allowance be increased. They have explicitly called on the parties and politicians to increase the care allowance. Now one can resort to a defensive position, as the SPÖ has done in the Committee: Come on, we'll make a package anyway! – It happens sometime in March, April, May. Or we're doing something. And I took Mrs Haidlmayr's argument very seriously: that it is about doing something quickly, with 1. Januarys to decide to put into effect so that the increase in the care allowance can be made by 5 percent. In addition, it was very interesting to listen to the Committee and also to hear expert opinions. I have listened very carefully to what Mr Haidlmayr said, and I am really glad that there is also an agreement here from the expert side – and she is a well-known expert in this field. What does the SPÖ do in the meantime? She again argues party-politically. She says here in the high house: Well, if the policy of matters warrants it, then we can agree to find other majorities. – There it is gone again, the SPÖ – not only physically today from the High House, but also in terms of content – when it comes to giving the people who care for people more money to the families they need urgently. When it comes to this, the SPÖ is not there, then she fails and then she has already forgotten what she has promised in the election campaign. That's the truth what you're doing here today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The money – and that is now the argument of the ÖVP; Mr President, we discussed it yesterday in the Committee, I must also say it here – this €84 million for this increase in care money – maximum, there are also estimates by Mr Haidlmayr that it may cost less, but up to €84 million – is always there, if we do it on the other hand, within a short period of time, of hours – and I am in favour of we have agreed, that is a right measure! – to raise the one-time amount for pensioners of this country from € 40 to € 60. That costs 150 million more, and that goes overnight. – Right and important and okay, but if you pay €84 million for the families who need and apply for care money because they simply can't afford the care anymore, the cost argument is strained, I consider that to be a little bit bold. Similarly, if you look at the figures of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the additional revenue in 2006 compared to 2005 in taxes: Wage tax €703 million, income and wealth tax €524 million, sales tax €666 million, mineral oil tax €3.3 million. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Gross!]] That is, we managed well this year, the country has a good productivity, and it came much more, net about € 1 billion, in revenue through the tax. It must be possible for us to loosen 84 million € for 5 percent increase in the care money – for the poorest in our country, so that they can make it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is similar with the heating allowance. Fortunately, winter is not as strict as expected. But this has not changed anything in terms of heating costs or energy prices. Unfortunately, energy prices have not fallen, but they remain at the top of the last few years. And they have to be paid, in the end, from those households that are not as good as they are. They are also hot, even if, as in the first weeks, it is a milder winter. God forbid if winter becomes even more severe, January, February, March. This can become tight, which will be tight for many families, and therefore we think it is right to grant a maximum grant of €150 per household for the affected around 1.6 million households with a cover of €2 500 in the family. This means that, in the end, there is also equal treatment in the various countries, because winter is probably as cold as in Lower Austria or in Vienna. There are all the same possibilities. [[Abg. Broukal: I don't think so!]] You don't believe that? Then you would have heard in the ORF in the weather editorial and not in the internal policy, colleague Broukal, if you did not believe that winter in the Styria is as cold as in Lower Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say: That's it! Therefore: We have social responsibility! Here too, the SPÖ has agreed, even here it is not willing to agree. Today we see exactly whether it is lively parliamentaryism or whether it is social measures: The SPÖ will act differently from before the election! I hope in the next four years people will see you through and then turn you back from the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9180	Thank you, honourable Member. For your information: The rest of your group's speaking time is only 1 minute. The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelegger. [[Calls:Spindelberger]] - Erwin Spindelberger. Sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9212	If the issue were not so sad, I would now have to laugh at the comments made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Now that, after the elections, the BZÖ has assumed a hardly perceptible size here to discover the social vein, that is a bit funny for me. It is very cynical if you simply celebrate the social policy of recent years. I think you should look at the past, what has been pumped, prevented and stunned in social policy over the last six years – thanks to BZÖ and former FPÖ Social Ministers! Your policy has caused us to carry out these repairs today because 1 million people live on the poverty line. Their policy has led to a 20 percent reduction in pensions in the future. And no matter how diletantic you have worked in the last six years, your application for heating compensation funds is also. Pure dilettantism, because there is no legal claim to the heating aid! You did it yourself, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler – now he goes out because he can't hear it anymore –: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm here!]] They only pay the countries a federal grant if there is also a national heating aid, and where there are higher contributions from the country, there is also a higher federal grant, where there are lower contributions, the federal grant is also lower. That is to say, those people who would need more will not get anything through this diletantic request either. That is why we will reject this request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say that our biggest challenge as a SPÖ will be to repair all that you have been baffled in the social field in the last six years. Unfortunately, none of the ÖVP masters of Maier, Stumbling or Molterer are here anymore, who have said in this context today: You can't spend the money you don't have! To do this, I have to say: If I look at what you have listed, starting from gold harvesting to billions of losses at the ASFINAG, the ÖBB, the Eurofighters, there has been a scrapping pile of €200 billion left behind. And since the gentlemen are not here, please do something: Do not put the words “economic policy” and “budget policy” into the mouth anymore, for you all have no idea of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9261	Thank you, Mr Spindelberger. The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. The Group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9285	Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say one thing: A few years ago, we had presented a report by the People's Procuratorate, unfortunately not here in the House, but I know it was Mr Kostelka, it was Mr Bauer and it was Mr Stadler – who was missing from this debate, because he would have been the connoisseurs in this case, and rightly against the absurdities of this request by the BZÖ – who at the time have found that a heating grant makes sense only if he is administered by uniform directives and not by the countries and according to their criteria. Do you want to grant a heating grant where, for example, only heating aid for fuel oil is granted in individual Länder, but not for other fuels?- Oh, my God! That's absurd, that's grotesk! They would have had to take note of the People's Procuratorate's report and work it through; he's good. You didn't do it: The request is bad and therefore rejected!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9312	Next word reported: Mr Wöginger. You have also set 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9334	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! The issue of heating aid is important to us by the ÖVP, but we have a different access to it, and I would like to explain it very briefly. The heating aid is regulated by the federal states, and this should remain the case in the future. The Federation does not always have to interfere in the regulations of the countries. Most federal states have increased their grants for heating costs, but – and we see that as well – these grants are differently high, and there are no uniform funding directives. Vorarlberg is the most positive example with 208 €, followed by Oberösterreich, my home country, with 162 €, Lower Austria and Vienna with 100 €. Then the Styria – and I would like to mention this briefly – comes with heating subsidies from 60 to 120 € depending on the heating system. And there is also a strange constellation in Salzburg – colleague Eßl can explain this even better –: There are more subsidies for fossil fuels than for all other heating forms. – That can’t be it, and in our opinion that’s unfair! In Salzburg last winter, only fossil fuels were eligible; for the next one, this regulation has been revised a little bit. – This is what we believe to be questioning. In addition, there are some grants from the cities and municipalities, so our proposal is that discussions be held at country level, for example at the national conference, with the aim of harmonizing, standardising heating costs subsidies. In our opinion, this would be the right solution: Harmonization, but at country level. Vorarlberg and Upper Austria are examples in this context and provide a good basis for the harmonisation of heating costs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9370	Next item is the report by Mr Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9391	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen! All day long, social policy has already been discussed, social policy has been brought by – obviously – experts; it cannot be different. When the care allowance was introduced in 1993, social experts at the plant – I am firmly convinced of this – could not be different! – and they let work. They then found that one needs a care allowance in a certain order, depending on who needs to be cared for. This magnitude has not been understood and has not been negotiated in the bazaar, but has been explored and determined: How much extra effort does a caregiver have? How much extra effort does he need, and how much can the Republic pay him? In 1994 the following payments were paid, converted into euro: 181.7 € for the first stage, 254,4 € for the second stage, and so on, and so on, to the seventh level. We have already thought about it, but one thing has not been considered: ten years later everything costs a little more because our consumer prices are rising, which is why it is also consumer price index. And you haven't adjusted the value! We have, on the other hand, increased twice, so that we do not in any way correspond to the consumer price index. If we are all really great social politicians, then we should do something quite simple, namely: think about why prices rise, and think about it if we want to cover some costs because someone is a care case that for these prices also increases. Therefore, the contribution should have been adjusted according to the consumer price index. I used the 1986 consumer price index, which was the one set before 1993, and according to this consumer price index we had 123.1 points in July 1993 and 154.5 points in October 2002. That's an increase of 25.51 points. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: Has everything to be cared for become cheaper by this 25 percent, or did not the price increases apply for them? – Of course they did! Therefore, it would be the most ordinary – if we do not pay down – that we now set a care allowance in the order of magnitude corresponding to the money value, i.e. the consumer price index. No problem at all, simply! It would be a simple, simple, understandable and just social policy. We have originally tabled an amendment which has not been accepted. That is why we are now bringing forward a motion for a resolution which we hope will be present to you, Madam President, because it has not always worked out today. So you can still decide if we're going the right way. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we do, we're on the right track. – I'm afraid you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9462	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9516	The next item is the report by Mr Broukal, which is an actual correction, which he will certainly make exemplary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9540	Madam President, you're always a little bit in God's hand here, but I'm going to try. Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler claimed that it was equally cold in the winter of Austria and therefore it had to be heated equally much. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The claim is wrong!]] I'm actually correcting: The measure of this is called heating day. ==References====External links== District in Vienna, there are 3 387 heating days, in Klagenfurt with 4,000 already by 20 percent more, and in Lunz am See there is 50 percent more heating demand in winter with 4 500 heating days, Mr. Ingenieur!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9588	You want to take the floor for a personal response? This must be done immediately after the word is spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9613	Mr Broukal claimed that I would have claimed that it is equally cold everywhere in Austria. – This is his claim – you can read it in the Minutes – is wrong! [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not a personal response!]] I have claimed that it in the Styria and Lower Austria in winter in about – about! - it's cold. That was my statement. We'll both look at the minutes together, and you'll see who's right. Okay?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9666	The next word is Mrs Mag. Trunk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9687	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Westenthaler's ability to remember – which has now proved his last word – is sometimes not very extensive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: yours is not present at all!]] But, Mr Westenthaler, you are a fleeter! I know from my own experience that you have problems with the pronouncing of names – Trunk and Stunk and so on. You have massively evaded my colleague Erwin Spindelberger and his name. [[Abg. Eßl: That was the President!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was the President! That's incredible!]] I expect you, Mr Westenthaler – I do not need any protocols; You know what you have said – the minimumism, the courage to apologize to colleagues Erwin Spindelberger. And if you lack the courage, then leave it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs. Trunk, lock your ears once! Shorten your hair so you can hear better! What kind of nonsense you're talking about!]] On your current activities, on the requests – in good Austrian, Mr Westenthaler and the other BZÖ colleagues, you can say: In the evening the lazy ones will be diligent! - It's a fake activity you're doing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to send the people to the forest to collect wood!]] You've been talking about a nursing abuser today: First of all, your BZÖ Minister of Social Affairs is responsible for this. You from the BZÖ, formerly FPÖ, are responsible for the increase of poverty, you are responsible for increasing the number of fates of people who do not know every now or in other areas. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many times have you raised the care allowance?]] She and her ministers, Sickl, Head and Haubner – Sickl, are responsible for this, because sometimes she didn't know where she was sent, but the head and the haubner hit it – are responsible because the BZÖ has long been silent about Mr Grasser's non-social tax and financial policy. You have been silent about this, and therefore you bear massive responsibility for the situation in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now that the voters have given you an ice-cold exit, you will come up with requests that are there: Mr Haubner submits applications to Minister Haubner. – In reality, in practice, this is a distrust of Mrs Haubner and Mr Westenthaler against Mrs Haubner – a paradox in this Parliament, which we hope will not be back soon. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] In the past you have said on all these SPÖ applications, including heating aid: exclusively country competence! And the Secretary of State has even gone up to the wording: The competence of the poor is clearly with the countries and not with the Federation! That's it! – Mr State Secretary, this has been your attitude so far! [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: It's true!]] The SPÖ stands for a policy of social justice, not for a policy of alms and bitting and not at all the arbitrariness. For six years you did the opposite of what you then try to do on the evening of the day before leaving the Federal Government. Mr Westenthaler, you yourself know: According to this policy of cold hearts – you have not always been inside – you and your colleagues have got cold feet from the BZÖ. Nevertheless: I also wish you a happy Christmas. Maybe get it. You're gonna have any felt patches to make it warmer for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9843	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9865	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say to you, Mrs Trunk, about the debate on care money and heating aid: As far as social assistance is concerned, it is located in the countries. The heating-cost grant is also country-related. We took a measure a few years ago, because this is so different in the individual federal states. We have now set out the measure that we are now making a 50 percent grant – a co-financing with the countries – so that we can meet the Austrians in half a balanced way. [[Abg. May. Trunk: And last year, where it was ice cold, there it was land!]] The countries themselves are required to do something in this area. In Carinthia, they are also the social councillor who can take care of this. [[Abg. May. Trunk: The Gaby Watch makes this great, the Michael Häupl too!]] For the federal care allowance. Everyone who is active in social policy knows what is happening in the care sector, what is happening in the disabled, and the individual organizations have repeatedly called on us to increase the federal care allowance. In the future, there will be more people who claim federal care money, based on demographic development; Mrs. Colleague, you know that. We will therefore have to take on more money in this area in the future. The introduction of the Bundespflege in seven stages in 1993 was a so-called social policy milestone. By now, some 340 000 people across Austria are receiving the federal care allowance, and in the countries it is around 60 000. We come to almost 400 000 – the number is rising. The care allowance was increased only twice: once in 1996 by 5.3 percent and last year by 1. ==References====External links== These 2% were estimated at €30 million. 1 percent increase costs about €15 million, you also need to know. We are aware that we need to react here. And, of course, you also need, in the Council of Ministers, the principle of unanimity – the approval of the financial controller, which must simply work. We have tried to get a valorization here. We are available for this, we have also made a request that in future, if you assume that an annual increase of 2 per cent is taking place in pensions, you raise the federal pension in comparison to the pensions and now make an increase of 5 per cent. A Member has already said today – I think it was Mr Weinzinger – that: If you use the consumer price index over the last ten years, you get a little over 15 percent. - That's what we're looking for. The resources for those people who don't have it that easy, who have it a little harder in life, who are in need of care, will of course not be cheaper. That is why we should provide for this valorization – in addition to a now unique increase of 5 percent. This would mean an increase of about 84 million, of which we are aware; we have also listed the figures. Of course, this would also mean an increase in the budget for the following years. If we assume a pension adjustment factor of 2 percent, as said, then that would account for around 125 million euros, and for 2009 we would already be about 169 million. That must also be known to all of us, and that is why I say this here. In 2010, it is already around 217 million euros that will be spent. There is no way by, no question, we also have to do something for those who don't have it so easy in life, because society is finally measured by how it deals with those who cannot help themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9921	Next speaker: Mr Secretary of State Dr. Finz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9942	Madam President. High house! Mr Sonnberger mentioned what we spent on care money in 2006, namely € 1.573 billion; in 1999 it was € 1.355 billion. Especially because we made an increase in 2005, this amount has increased considerably. There has been a number of improvements since 2000 – and this should always be said when assessing the care situation – because the Minister of Finance, who obviously has to pay attention to the cash register, is also socially visible. And if something can be financed, he also says it. [[Abg. May. Trunk: That's why you're here now!]] For example: For caregivers who, because they are caring for someone, are no longer able to exercise their profession, there is a preferential supplementary insurance for the pension. Here the federal government pays the employer's share. Further: When the contribution-free co-insurance in health insurance was re-regulated, it was decided that caregivers are still co-insurance free of contributions. These are equivalent values if I have a health insurance and don't have to pay any contributions to it! Then family hospice was introduced – a milestone in the care of close relatives. These members of the family may also be paid to those members of their family if they take care of them. ==References====External links== January 2004 for caregivers the possibility if they are sick, want to make a vacation, or other important reasons to receive a allowance for replacement care for this time. So I think all these improvements should be mentioned in the assessment of the care situation. I would just like to say to the tax revenue mentioned by Mr Westenthaler: These are gross incomes prior to the distribution of incomes. We have to transfer to the other local authorities – to the countries, to the municipalities. It therefore remains net significantly less and therefore remains net much less to distribute. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9979	As the last speaker, Mr Eßl spoke. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10000	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we almost all agree that in trying to do something for people with low incomes, we are moving a little further. Of course, we by the ÖVP are committed to this. The heating aid is an instrument for this, but this heating aid is a matter for the country. There are different rules, and we should set the goal – each one of us – to influence the countries to create appropriate criteria here. There are considerable differences. It has already been mentioned today: This goes from Burgenland with 70 € to Vorarlberg with 208 €. There is different treatment in countries according to the type of fuel. The Styria and Salzburg are to be mentioned negatively. In fact, last winter Salzburg, with a social councillor Buchinger and a head of state Burgstaller, shot down the bird, which paid no heating allowance at all for those people who use renewable energy! [[Abg. Hornek: A scandal!]] Overall, I can say that for me the reasons for a federal solution are not yet available to the extent that one should approach it. The time, I believe, is not quite favourable, because we find that, while energy is as expensive as last year, it is much less consumed than in the previous year. I inquired at Salzburg AG: October minus 8 percent, November minus 12 percent. With us in Tamsweg, Fernheizwerk: October minus 12 percent, in November in about the same and in the first half of December minus 15 percent. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] So, in summary, I can say: A compensation fund of the federal government in this form is not the appropriate measure. My request, ladies and gentlemen, is rather: First: The countries which depend on the amount of the heating aid should raise them to a reasonable level. Secondly, Injustices and social inconsistencies, as they did in Salzburg last year by Chief of State Burgstaller and Landesrat Buchinger, must not happen again. I want those people who are hot with wood, and those who use district heating, to receive the full heating allowance in Salzburg – and not to be excluded from this grant again by Burgstaller and Buchinger. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10044	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10067	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think there is no party here in the House and no political group who would not like to give more social benefits to families who need it. But it is a fact that we must also be able to afford these social benefits. We've heard it all the time today: We have 160 billion euros of debt – and for everyone who doesn't find it bad: That's 2.2 trillion schilling! And for these debts we pay €7 billion annually. ==References====External links==* Official website Since the last National Council elections, the figure has already been €6 billion, if you calculate it and add it. I am speaking here, for example, of basic security and many other desires. Somebody's got to pay this back. If we can't do this or the taxpayers, this will be our children and grandchildren. That hurts, ladies and gentlemen. The heating aid to which we are dealing today is a matter of country – and that has already been said by my previous speaker. It would be desirable to harmonise the various federal states. In Burgenland, the heating allowance is €70; the red chief negotiator Hans Niessl is responsible for this. We're the final light, and I think that's embarrassing. But I do not think we can afford to do so because we have no money at our disposal in Burgenland, because the Bank of Burgenland is now going to hit. In the black Vorarlberg, on the other hand, there is a heating fee of 208 €. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] You can only be congratulated on this, ladies and gentlemen. The countries that are behind here should take a first step, then we could also double the heating cost subsidy from the federal government in some form à la longue. That should be known to all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10113	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 17 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in the allowance for care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 18 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[13:59:34]] 7. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 80/A by Mr Jakob Auer, Dr Christoph Matznetter, Werner Neubauer, Mag. Bruno Rossmann, Josef Bucher, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2006 (7. BFG-Novelle 2006) (15 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10208	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Before we go into the debate, I only note the remaining speaking time of the political groups: SPÖ 4 minutes, ÖVP 7 minutes, Green no longer speaking time, Free Party 1 minute and BZÖ also 1 minute. Mr Jakob Auer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10241	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Although it is rather unusual to speak on such an agenda item, I would not like to let this BFG-Novelle pass by here without notice or uncommented. This increase in the staff level of the Parliamentary Directorate, but at the same time also the possibility of staffing for an additional club, as I believe, is absolutely necessary – especially the latter. This is a recognition of the excellent achievements of our staff of the House who have the expertise to support us. That's not a question at all. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Nevertheless, a critical remark is also made: I would like to see an improvement in staff financing problems in equal speed and unity, as has been achieved by increasing the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the German Parliament is concerned, our resources with human resources are really micky, as far as the support of parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen is concerned. I would therefore ask you, at the forthcoming budget, to consider whether there could at least be a significant improvement here. I am not talking about the example of Germany that we have the same opportunities, the same opportunity, but a clear improvement should be imaginable. I therefore ask, above all, the club responsible, but also the Bureau, to consider Parliament in favour of the parliamentarians, so that a small improvement can be achieved here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10286	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 15 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this draft law also at third reading to a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:02:55]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 18/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, colleagues, on a Federal Act amending the Emissions Certificate Act (14d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10347	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The honourable Member, who has spoken, has spoken. Kogler does not come to the call, because there is no remaining speaking time for the Greens. That is why Mr Krainer is next to him. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10381	Madam President. The present amendment to the Emissions Certificate Act is available for two main reasons. First: The Constitutional Court has repealed substantial parts of the old law and the corresponding allocation regulation. This statement of the Constitutional Court was to be fulfilled. Secondly, This innovation creates a flexible reserve that enables industry and the e-business to grow further through an advance on the following period and at the same time become more CO2-efficient. Three reasons were important to us, three questions were behind this law. First: Is this law good for the environment? - That's what we're saying. As far as emissions trading is concerned, we have the second most efficient system in Europe, which the European Commission has decided on. We improve this, we continue to reduce overall emissions and increase CO2 efficiency. This is certainly good for the environment. The second question was: Is it good for the economy? Is it good for the business location? - It's also a clear yes. The law makes it possible to modernise the industry and to continue to grow. In particular, repowering can replace existing, less efficient installations in the electricity sector with much more efficient ones. For example, the most efficient caloric power plant in Europe with CHP is being developed in Vienna at the moment and with an efficiency of more than 86 percent. There is still no other country in Europe. The third question was whether it is socially fair. Firstly, the shift of potential factors dampens price, which is positive. Secondly, and that is the essence. We have also clearly stated in the Committee that the risk of price change must not be borne by taxpayers. Therefore, these three questions must be answered with yes for us. This law may be the last in this GP, but certainly not the most important. Since we were unable to present a final novel on Tuesday, there were good discussions between ÖVP and SPÖ yesterday and yesterday. There is also a thanks to all the political groups, the FPÖ, the Greens and the BZÖ, for making it possible for us to have this law in plenary today. And also a special thanks to my vis-à-vis for the good talks over the last two days, to Mr Kopf. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10439	Next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10461	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Very short: In Austria, it is currently the case that, as measured by the global increase in temperature, the quantity is produced three times. While the global temperature increase is 0.6 degrees Celsius, it is 1.8 degrees in Austria, i.e. triple. We have considered the proposal well and have asked experts about it, including from the Technical University in Vienna Dr. Reinhard Haas. We also drew up a report from Sir Nicholas Stern for our decision. Both are opposed to such an approach as is to be decided here today. Instead, they believe that with 1 percent of investments in climate protection in 10 to 20 years could be achieved five times. With regard to farms, the economy is preferred to the economy. There is also no differentiation to environmentally friendly or other investments. That is why we cannot give this request today's approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10491	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10512	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not unknown to the environmentalists of this House that we think it is very important to use market-economy instruments in environmental policy. The emission certificate system with the allocation of a certain amount of free allowances and the need to buy the rights of the above-mentioned emissions is such an instrument. I think we've had good experience with this in the first phase. We are now adjusting it a little bit and therefore we also need these new laws. But I think we're on the right track. Mr Neubauer said: The industry and the e-business have so far made the greatest contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases. If all the other sectors had made a similar contribution, we would have done much more. Nevertheless, the industry is again contributing to the reduction of GHG emissions. I therefore believe that you are here at the wrong point. If you do not want to agree with this law, which is precisely aimed at the economy that has already done a lot, then you are about to go to the wrong ones. I think that if we were to discuss other areas, traffic and similar, okay, but here I can't understand that because we are creating the basis for a very efficient and effective system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10555	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler spoke next. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10576	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased to be able to give my first speech here in the House – and I am still the last speaker today, also a good omen – on this so important subject. As my previous speakers have already pointed out, with the amendment to the Emissions Certificate Act, the existing law will be adapted. Emission reserves are designed to be more flexible and to ensure legal certainty for operators through the creation of recyclable reserves and to allow for equality of all new plants. So far as the facts are concerned. I personally consider this law to be very important for climate protection, and therefore the innovation to be decided today, since emissions trading links market-economy instruments with environmental objectives and thus establishes an innovative instrument in environmental policy. The previous emission-certificate reserve scheme of only one percent was not enough, some major projects, especially in the energy sector, are under planning. That's why we had to act. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has a pioneering role in many respects. It is on the right track in environmental technology and environmental promotion. No other country has such a high share of alternative energy sources and renewable energy such as Austria. In the case of biofuels, Austria is the EU leader. I would like to thank Mr Josef Pröll for this approach and also for the many initiatives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because for me as a mother, it is really a concern that my children still find an environment that is worth living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10625	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 14 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:13:07]] 9. Point Election of members and alternate members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10683	We come to the 9th and last item on the agenda. There are constituencies of the political groups for members and substitutes. Members of the committee are Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Gisela Wurm, Karl Donabauer, Fritz Neugebauer and as replacement members the Deputies Mag. Karin Hakl, Mag. Terezija Stoisits and Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann are elected. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall not vote against the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of Article 66(1) of the Rules of Procedure, but rather vote against the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The election of members and substitutes has thus been carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The agenda is exhausted. [[14:14:11]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10786	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 85/A to 87/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 195/J to 205/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council will be convened in writing. [[14:14:30]] Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-15-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10825	Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this calendar year, I will allow you to wish you all the best for Christmas holidays and for the New Year. We stand at a very intense, labor-rich and probably also exciting beginning of a new legislative period. The cooperation is still new and unusual for all of us. This situation, however, is one that is particularly important for us to be able to rely on those who work behind the “scenes”, namely the employees of the house, the employees of the parliamentary clubs and the parliamentary staff. Allow me to thank all of them warmly on your behalf and wish everything good! [[General condolences.]] There are also many ladies and gentlemen outside Parliament who have a lot to do with us, who work very closely with us. Let me just mention the representatives of the media! I would also like to wish this in your name beautiful holidays and a good New Year! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to a constructive cooperation in the coming year 2007. I would like to thank you, above all, for the constructive cooperation we are currently working together with. We had some time to get used to. The Second President of the National Council, Dr. Spindelegger, and the Third President of the National Council, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, I also personally wish everything good for the holidays. Ladies and gentlemen! It's nine days to Christmas. Take the opportunity to spend at least the Christmas holidays in peace, so that we can start the New Year with full force! Good luck! [[General condolences.]] [[14:16]] Before closing the meeting, I announce that at 2.30 p.m. in local VI, a meeting of the Investigation Committee on the procurement of fighter aircraft is taking place. The sitting is closed.
