ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e896	The 152. The meeting of the National Council is open. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House and the representatives of the Federal Government. I should like to point out that there is now also a Rules of Procedure for the European Days available to everyone. We now have a European day, i.e. it is dedicated exclusively to the discussion of EU issues. Deputies are reported as prevented by Felzmann, Glaser, Bayer, Schieder, Wurm, Bleckmann and Glavischnig-Piesczek. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e934	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrer is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll. The meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 9.05 a.m., from now on until 1 p.m. [[09:05:52]] 1. Point Initiatives for a social Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e979	The first subject was proposed by the Green Group. Mr Oellinger is the first speaker. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1003	Mr President. I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, which I and we Greens believe is an important one. I am pleased that you, Mrs. Federal Minister Haubner, will be accompanied by Mr. Vice-Chancellor, No. Vice-Chancellor. But in fact more people would have to sit on the government bench on this issue. I am missing the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, I am missing the Minister for Health and Women, who is responsible for a very large area of social affairs, and I am, of course, also missing Mr. Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, for he has already found words on this subject before the Presidency of the Council, which on the one hand are quite correct, but on the other hand he must certainly explain. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Schüssel was the one who said: Europe is to become more human, social and sustainable. - Yeah, we could sign that. But it was also Bundeskanzler Schüssel who said: "In some areas, such as the social state, we need to re-adjust. There has to be some slenderning and greater success.” – This was said by Chancellor Schüssel not in 2000, that is, before the start of pension reforms and other social slender reforms, but on 20 July. ==References== Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, I ask you where do you want to go? [[Call the ÖVP: He's not here!]] Are you still slendering the social state? Is he not already slender enough in the area of social security, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Murauer: The opposite is the case!]] Is not the problem we have here in Europe, in the various European countries, that in the social field, where it would be necessary, where the sheer is most visibly separated, more and more countries – not only Austria but Austria in particular – are going to carry out savings programmes in the interests of a site competition that is supposed to make this necessary?- Oh, my God! So I am on the subject, ladies and gentlemen: How is this Europe to grow together, how are the countries of the European Union, the regions of the European Union, the municipalities of the European Union to grow together when the municipalities, the regions and the countries are driven into an ever-increasing competition? – Companies should compete, but not countries, regions and municipalities! I would like this to be a social Europe. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us now turn to one of the issues where it is most evident that the development that European governments, including the Austrian Government, are responsible for, is going in the wrong direction: tax competition between countries. If, as has been done, Austria reduces its income taxes to 25 percent, if the Federal Republic of Germany has a nominal profit tax of 35 percent, if Slovakia has a profit tax of 19 percent, but under the control of effective tax rates, it is found that Austria is currently effectively having the lowest tax rates – not 25 percent but 16, 17 percent – together with Germany, then something is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] It can't be the future of Europe that we're going down a tax competition where it comes out that that country is the best where companies don't pay profit taxes at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You laugh, Mr Fassleven, obviously this is also your intention. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] We want to conclude with these exceptions, with this location competition, which is devastating for Europe's economic and social systems, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Jobs!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We need to grow together, not split up! We don't need the race down to zero, but we need a combination of tax systems, a common tax system, all of them... – Karl Marx?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Rädler:... Karl Marx!]] You're a joke! Come out and say that again! Please! [[Congratulations to Dr. Van der Bellen and Dr. Rada.]] Tax, the honourable Member of the ÖVP explains to us, has been invented by Karl Marx. - They're really the best. That belongs to award-winning! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We want taxes, ladies and gentlemen, which all European countries pay in a similar, reasonable manner and in the same amount, taxes, which are also collected on profits. [[Abg. Wheelers: All equal!]] – This is not too much to demand, because it cannot be the future of Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that only the middle class and those with low incomes pay taxes, while those who have very high incomes have very high profits, no matter in any European country, are exempt from taxes. [[Abg. Wheelers: 2.3 million Austrians pay no tax!]] Otherwise, Europe has lost its future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I hope you still share this view – but in view of these calls, I am somewhat uncertain. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Second point: There's not just the tax competition. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] – Mr Grillitsch, the next joke. That must not be true! If you are on such a serious topic – and this issue is serious! – Exhaust in making fun of it, then I'm sorry. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Your colleague, now you're a little bit mastery!]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany still has more knowledge and respect for the things that concern the European Union and the important issues of the European Union. Second topic after the tax competition... – Left link, okay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The second issue is the dumping of wages, ladies and gentlemen, a serious problem! We have a serious problem if we have such huge differences between the countries of the European Union and the minimum wages. The minimum wages in Bulgaria and Romania amount to €70 to €80 for 40 hours of work, in Luxembourg €1500 for 40 or 38 hours of work, and in Austria we have still not reached the €1,000 you have committed in the government programme – but not the social partners are primarily responsible, because you have written this into the government programme. We must work to address this problem, but we are missing initiatives from the Austrian Presidency. We want minimum wages to be raised from the low level to an average wage. We want minimum wages to be increased in the developed countries too. In Austria, the “standard” wrote in 2006 in 20 industries a minimum wage below 900 € gross. [[Abg. Rädler: Is that the “standard”, or is it true?]] 1 000 € Minimum wage is a foreign word for many. Where are the Federal Government's initiatives in this regard? [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is negotiating the wages, Mr. Colleague?]] Faith You really, ladies and gentlemen, are you paying enough for 40 hours of work with 670 € as a newspaper provider? [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell the ÖGB! But there's really the ÖGB in charge!]] – Show Not to others, you have it in the government programme, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: You want the collective contract wages...?]] Your government has said: We are committed to the 1 000 €! You can't deposit the responsibility of someone else, that's your government program. [[Abg. Scheibner: Should we determine the wages by law?]] And 670 € for 40 hours of work are clearly too little! This is happening in Austria. Something needs to be changed! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We expect initiatives from the Federal Government. It would be necessary to set out prospects at European level, initiatives for a social Europe, initiatives that help to combat poverty in Europe. What do we need to see? – The Commission identified the poverty programmes, which Austria has also sought and signed, or which the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible for, in 2006: Nothing's happened! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In the case of unemployment, nothing has happened – detto! We expect initiatives for a social Europe and no further spirals in the competition of countries, regions and communities among themselves. Europe is supposed to grow together, not disperse!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1262	In order to give an introductory opinion, the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, Mr Haubner, spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mrs Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1283	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Never before has the social dimension of Europe been discussed so intensively during a Presidency, and never has it been so intensive. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: What?]] One reason for this may also be that, especially in Austria, a social responsibility policy is a central task of this government. A recent Eurobarometer survey on the future of Europe has made it clear that citizens want a stronger social commitment from the EU. Employment and the safeguarding of social rights are priority concerns of all generations, especially young people. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that Member States are particularly responsible for shaping policies in the field of employment and social policy. It is precisely because these are national tasks that we need common values, common objectives and strategies at European level, in all the differences between national models, especially with regard to social cohesion, equal opportunities for access to education and also to the provision of old-age and health care. From these values, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a clear task for all Member States: combating poverty, promoting social inclusion and, above all, ensuring access to and sustainable financing and quality of pension, health care and care systems. These are also the main priorities that Europe must deal with, which we face and where every country has its homework to do. Austria has begun this homework in time with the pension reform, with the harmonisation of pension systems, with the system of sustainable care provision, with measures for care at home. We take social responsibility seriously and seriously in this area in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! Important initiatives have been launched under the Austrian Presidency; let me take three out. First: For the first time, there is a very clear message from the Social and Employment Ministers that the so-called new partnership of growth and employment without social security is not possible. This very clear and concrete definition of the interaction of growth, employment and social protection is also set out in the conclusions of the Spring European Council. It is also clear that the European Youth Pact, which for the first time set quantitative targets, must be implemented rapidly and effectively. We are currently working in Austria in addition to what we have done in recent years in national responsibility, in addition to preparing a binding national action plan to be presented to the EU in September 2006. In recent years, apart from the harmonisation of pension systems and the measures in the field of care and health care, we have set a course for families, especially in the tax system, but also, of course, where it is necessary and where the government can act, namely in the area of minimum security. I would like to point out once again that, as one of the few countries in Europe, we have a minimum guarantee for people of age and that this minimum guarantee has been increased to € 690 in this year. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Youth plays a key role. That is why, and during this presidency, the active involvement of European youth representatives in the youth ministerial meetings was very important, and we consider it very necessary. These were three main issues: employment and employment, education, especially the value and recognition of non-school education – Austria has been particularly involved in this area, and the recognition of voluntary work, and youth work will also be adopted in the next Youth Council. And it was mainly about discussing the future of Europe, because youth needs prospects and opportunities. In this respect too, Austria has set the course in time. I only point out the employment offensive for young people in Austria. [[Abg. Oil: Where? Where?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it was and is also important for us to involve all the actors, in this case young people, because listening to each other and actively exchanging is also a basis for the further development of a social Europe. We will therefore have a dialogue at European level in the future – which is also a result of the Austrian Presidency. Before youth ministers make their decisions, a very intense discussion and an intensive dialogue with the representatives of European youth will take place. Listening and acting – a perspective that we have given a very important dimension during our Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about initiatives and social Europe, we also need to talk about demographic challenges and respond. The number of children will decrease by just under 20% by 2050, and the number of over 65 will increase by around 44 percent in the coming decades. This development, ladies and gentlemen, affects our social systems as well as economic growth, labour market and society as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Austria has again set fine initiatives. In addition to the important framework conditions, we have increased the value of the family at European level. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] There is therefore great agreement at European level between Member States that investment in families is also an investment in social security, that financial family benefits must be oriented to the benefit of the child and to the benefit of the children. I am very glad that during our presidency, it was also proposed that there should also be a children's rights forum at European level and that there should also be a co-ordinator for children's rights, which is not yet available. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] There is also great agreement that the provision of services for families should be strengthened in order to better reconcile work and family life, and that the partnership for families – within the family, but above all outside the family – is more necessary than ever, and that new forms are needed. We have had a large demographic conference in Austria, and here we have put the course in the right direction, so that the family will be viable and manageable within Europe. [[Abg. Oellinger: Should be!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The European Commission's recent communication on social services is also of great interest. As the Austrian Presidency, I have always been committed to removing these social services from the General Services Directive. There is now a proposal to remove social housing, childcare and family support. [[Abg. Oils:... Old care!]] For me, it is still unclear what happens to services to people in need of care and disability. Here we still have to ensure the necessary clarity. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The social challenges are great, and we can only deal with them if we develop and live up to the individual models in the interests of the citizens of Europe. There, where it is necessary to act together, with very concrete measures against poverty, unemployment and exclusion, it is necessary to do something together. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] Where we can be active at national level, we have set up initiatives, we have started well in Austria and will continue to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it will also be possible to address the scepticism of many Europeans, but also the scepticism of many Austrians towards the EU and to show people: If Europe has a social face, this Europe also has a common opportunity. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] In Austria we started well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1413	We are now going into the debate. I recall that each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes, with no speaker being allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes. Only motions for resolutions can be tabled in the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Weinzinger. She's got a six-minute welcome. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1444	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Haubner has shown very impressively with her speech, which is why social Europe is ill: There are nice words, mostly empty. I'm just asking: What does it mean when Mrs. Minister says that one will “make clarity ”? [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course you have leased the wisdom!]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner from BZÖ, listen to me at least once so that you know what I am saying before you get upset about what the content could be! [[Abg. Scheibner: The first sentence is already an accusation!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does it mean, for example, if one wants to clarify whether these are now excluded from the Services Directive or not in the case of care and care for old people? I would have expected the Austrian Presidency to say: Our objective is to take care of the care sector very quickly and to avoid competition. For example, the Minister is not willing to do this. We see this across, not only with Mrs Haubner: The social Europe is conjured up in the speeches, then one turns around, goes to the daily business, and there again: Economic policy in the interests of major enterprises is always a policy of social policy. This is your policy, the government's policy and ÖVP and BZÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, this finding is not only submitted by the Greens but also by the EU itself. There is an EU working document on social integration in Europe, which was published on 23 March. ==References====External links== Its aim is to assess the national action plans to combat poverty and social exclusion: Although the reports spoke of progress in sub-areas, there is clear evidence that there is no evidence or evidence of concrete improvements. So the Commission. This is particularly true of Austria. That is, the Commission itself says that there is little progress in the national action plans to combat poverty. There is only what Mrs Minister calls a message, a dialogue, a speech. However, this does not help the many millions of people affected by poverty in the EU. I call on you to finally take concrete action and not always speak well! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me address the most urgent two or three areas of problem that we have to deal with. The first is – and this has already been mentioned by my colleague Karl Ollinger – that we need minimum social security and we need a minimum level of protection in labour, that is to say simply and decisively, a minimum wage and a process within the European Union as we align these minimum wage standards with each other. This means specifically addressed to the government: Achieve at least in Austria once Your own goal of a minimum wage of € 1,000, with a minimum statutory wage! This option is open to you at any time. Get her! Don't always talk about social partners! Finally take a step yourself and decide a legal minimum wage of 1 000 €! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's what you're doing in the next government!]] Mr Scheuch proposes that the Greens should do this in the next government. – We will be very happy to do so because you will no longer be there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Not with you!]] The second major area is unemployment, which is a pressing problem for many countries. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I don't want to be with such a government!]] – You think I should take care of your unemployment, Mr Scheuch? – This is not my priority target group! I would rather deal with those people who suffer from structural unemployment and, above all, poverty. I'm sure you're not one of them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Neither do you! In any case, you have no financial poverty!]] The third problem – we have already addressed different levels of income – is the different levels of income and social security levels of men and women in the EU, where Austria is unfortunately a final one. With regard to income justice, Austria is about fifth or sixth last place, i.e. in the end of the EU. If you go to the World Economic Forum – and this is not a green organization – Austria is in the final place of 102 states in terms of income justice. However, this means that due to their income in Austria, women are far below the poverty line, and so do other countries. The differences in income between men and women are between 20 and 40 percent, and that is not justified by anything, certainly not by the work done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I also call on our government to take concrete steps during the presidency and itself so that women can be better assured that they do not fall into poverty and that income differences can be taken. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where are the initiatives? The only thing the Austrian Minister of Women makes for this is a small conference in Brussels. Not even any official EU body will be convened to deal with this issue. This has been reserved for the topic of “traditional violence against women, ” such as forced marriage, for example. One celebrates this as if it were an Austrian invention, but it overlooks the fact that there has already been a conference in 2004 and that, above all, one lacks – and especially in your absence from the ÖVP – concrete improvements. They urge something again, but in their own foreign law, in their own criminal law, for example, there are no improvements at all. And this suggests the suspicion – and I agree with an excellent comment from Sieglinde Rosenberger and Birgit Sauer in the “Falter” this week – that you are actually using women’s policy issues and pressing problems, which are caused by violence against women, tradition and not tradition, to re-establish the mood against foreigners in Austria and to add a hostile connotation to women’s policy here. Women in Europe are in favour of this, and women's policy is far too bad. I would strongly recommend: Do not always talk about social policy, but at last do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1611	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. His welcome time is 8 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1632	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is on the agenda. The Greens have chosen the theme. To date, the European perspective has not even been addressed in two speeches with a constructive proposal. That's unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: We are waiting for you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had to look for a big loop and need a lot of helpers to determine when your representative in the European Parliament, Mr Voggenhuber, last time used the term “social dimension”. – October 2005! So your representation is worthy of improvement, let me say first of all! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would like to make a very brief attempt to bring together my experience from the last discussions since the beginning of our presidency, in particular with young Members. The first I could sum up with Kokoschka, who once said: Modern society overlooks that the world is not the property of a single generation. – It is very conscious that previous policies have acted in this way. The result is a negligent accumulation of debt mountains at the expense of the boys and not yet born. It is well known that there has been a trend change in politics since 2000. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is articulated what at the beginning of the nineties Josef Riegler referred to with the then somewhat bulky concept of the eco-social market economy. But in truth, the internal link between social peace, competitiveness and environmental stability is the survival strategy, and this is what our policy stands for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] There is no doubt that the young – and this is not an Austrian phenomenon – are concerned about employment in the discussions. It is 20 million across Europe who do not want jobs, cheap jobs, but meaningful work. Austria has taken a lot of tax money responsibly in order to create a framework for more employment. [[Abg. Oils: Why does unemployment rise?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're listening, you'll notice you're thinking exclusively of distribution. But there is something before, that is to achieve, so that you can distribute something! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The question of minimum social standards, although social concerns are national, has been well managed, for example, in the matter of working time. There is also a massive discussion across Europe about the Services Directive, as European trade unions have joined forces. Now we have to see that there is no setback on this question. I only recall the discussion that at the time, unfortunately, led to the early death of Alfred Dallinger, namely, on the question of the added value, that we can probably link what we have created to a dense social network in the coming years and decades, dear friend, not only to wages and salaries, but also that we must make this financial capital and the profits to secure the social networks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi]] We must start with this discussion, because there are many resistances on the other hand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The boys formulate fourth: more participation and transparency; we want to be there! I do not see any political fatigue on the part of young Members. Finally, with a refreshing openness, I experience a discussion of values – in contrast to all those who do bad here and talk things bad – that we can be proud of in Europe, a value discussion that is initially based on personality, namely the turning to the individual. I always remember the word of a German Cardinal who once said: Every human being is born as original, most die as copies. Our policy is to suit the individual's concerns and facilities accordingly. This personality is a rejection of the mass. And it's subsidiarity. It was only yesterday that there was an excellent initiative in the Reichsratssshalle, namely the Conference of the European Committees, and there it was experienced how difficult it is to accommodate our model of subsidiarity, the responsibility of small unity, throughout Europe and see it as a living model: The responsibility of small unity towards centralism and, ultimately, solidarity as a co-operation against political egoism. Ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that we will succeed, despite differing views, despite considerable resistance. In establishing this European agreement, Robert Schuman: Europe will not come into existence in one day. But it will come from actions. The Austrian Presidency also has a high share of work on this – and this is successful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say, in spite of all the difficulties we have in Austria, that, despite the fact that we are not yet really so profoundly set up in Europe to take over the role of the social partners, that is to say, one hundred percent: [[Abg. Oils: Don't remember!]] One thing is important. Last week, the head of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research, Mr. Univ.-Prof. Dr. Aiger, once again made it clear that there is a direct link between a functioning social partnership and the quality of social security. We are working to ensure that this social partnership, despite all its fragility, is re-affected because it is also worth strengthening Europe for the coming generations of this model of life, which we can offer as an export product in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1762	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. His welcome time is 9 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1783	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Riepl: The vice chancellor is already gone!]] I might want to try this way, Mrs. Federal Minister: It is quite true that we have the impression that what you say is also covered by your will and that you really have good will. That is why I think it is appropriate to make an offer to you, namely the offer to cooperate on specific issues at European level, where it is really a question of people's well-being being pursued and secured in Austria as well. I do not want to address other questions now because the time would not be enough. Mrs Bundesminister, you have rightly said that the Services Directive has concerned ensuring that no dumping competition takes place in Europe. This has been achieved to a certain extent through the compromise of the European Parliament. And so far, it has been quite successful in maintaining this compromise in the Council. I think that there is still a lot of commitment from Austria as the Presidency to prevent it from slipping again. They have rightly said that it would be desirable to exclude the area of services of general interest from the Services Directive, and in particular to ensure that the services that people need in everyday life, starting from kindergartens through ordinary schools, through public transport, through the appropriate care of older people up to pools or cultural facilities in the municipalities, are also ensured in a way that what is democratically decided on the basis of the principles is also legally possible, and that the small Community secretary must not always be afraid to stand before the European Court of Justice at some point in time because the measures taken by the municipalities have been regarded as uncompetitive. Mrs Federal Minister, we agree with you that it is necessary to exclude social and health services from this competition area and to ensure that they are oriented for the good of people and not primarily for the good of those companies who would like to make an additional business. We are also willing to go in a direction with you, because it is necessary to create a legal framework that ensures that these benefits, which are mainly provided in municipalities, but also beyond, are secured in such a way that at least this part holds. The people in Austria and also in other European countries have had enough experience that this exclusive competitive orientation of the European Union and its policy, which is primarily directed against state services, has led to many hundreds, even thousands, losing their jobs or that the conditions have become much more untiring, both for consumers and for employees. So the many thousands of postal, railway, telecom services know what I'm talking about. What it is all about is providing good services for people and ensuring that not only the competition of the national states, but also the competition of large companies, is put in the foreground, but also the well-being of people. There we give you a hand, both as social democrats and I personally as the social partners at European level, because we believe that something has to happen in this regard. But, Mrs Federal Minister, we would also like to see concrete initiatives by the Federal Government towards the creation of a European framework law on services of general economic interest, such as those referred to under European law, where it is ensured that started by education, health, care services, rescue services, but also others, such as water, waste water supply, public transport, postal services, kindergartens, swimming pools, cultural facilities, all these things that are essential to life and which are also part of the European welfare model – or you prefer to say “life model”, but we call it specifically by name – are secured against this exclusive priority of competition law at European level, which in reality means nothing more than to say that states should give up it, communities should give up it, mainly matter, any entrepreneur get an additional business. This cannot be our goal, and I expect concrete initiatives, including the time that remains for you in the Presidency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore agree, on behalf of my group, to submit a motion for a resolution which will also support you in this matter: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Federal Minister, we invite you, we cordially invite the Federal Government to join this initiative, we invite you all to join this initiative. It is about concrete assurance of a model that we have achieved in Austria at the municipal, state, federal level, and we want that to be assured. We ask you to agree to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1856	Mr Dr. A read-out motion from Members Dr. Eins and colleagues on the initiative of the Federal Government for an EU Framework Directive on services of general economic interest is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1923	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Your welcome time is 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e1945	Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, Mr Oellinger: Every country itself is required to create prosperity for all, to safeguard and preserve the social system, to promote progress and to secure jobs. This is a hard work that no one can take away from a country, and Austria too has undergone this hard work. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – I’ll explain it to you then! Mr Oellinger, what you are calling for is really nothing but the recovery of the plan economy: Equal pay throughout Europe; a headquarters in Brussels should say how much everyone can earn, how high the tax rate may be, and so on and so on. - And we don't want to. We have experienced the decline in the planning economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the Services Directive is concerned, Mr President, all that is in the social field, in the health sector is excluded from the Services Directive. This is set out, and in this respect I am quite sure of your opinion: We need these social services! While we were primarily involved in the Services Directive, the country of origin principle – you know that very well – is that someone who works in Austria should work on the conditions of his home country. That would have completely broken the labour market in us, and you admit it. Ladies and gentlemen! If I now come back to the difficult task of individual countries to ensure prosperity, to ensure job security, I already admit that this goal is associated with major challenges, because we know that it is not only the national states that can influence the economy through their regulatory measures, but through international integration that has all become much more difficult – I admit. I am thinking only of the trade in goods and services, of certain international associations to which the countries are bound, of the WTO and so on. This task is therefore not easy, but, as has been said, Austria has done its homework – and this must also be required by the other countries in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Because you are so skeptical of what we have achieved in Europe: We have created, through many policies, a basis for safeguarding, maintaining the existing standard of living. And I really believe that we can be proud of the achieved! This is also reflected in various newspaper articles – I quote as an example the “Frankfurter Allgemeine” in which it was read that Austria has become “the autonomous success model” “by the driver of the general German post-war welfare”. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's how we look!]] The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” wrote of the “Success Model Austria”: Germany was the richest country in Europe for a long time, now it's slipped down to 10th place. Austria put it in third place. – Germany slipped under the red-green government of Schröder, ladies and gentlemen. The Head of Mission of the International Monetary Fund says: “Since the last decade, a strategic change in Austria’s politics has made it a European pre-reform country”, ladies and gentlemen. So there is nothing to do with it at all! I do not know why you are not right that we have become a show country in Europe. In fact, we should say: Yes, we are on the right path, let's continue so!, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Much of what we have done in Europe could be an example in other EU countries, such as the economic recovery packages, the growth package, the 2003 site package, the research promotion, the strong increase in resources for active labour market policies. All of this has taken place, and Austria has so far mastered the crises that have shaken all of Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Look, in the youth unemployment ranking, we are in third place in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is something at this time when there has been bad economic growth over the years! 123,000 apprentices benefit from the promotion of apprenticeships and thus have a good chance to enter the labour market. 91,000 young people under 25 were supported with € 265 million to improve their qualifications. Measures have been taken, especially for young people who have problems – psychologically or in some other way – and who cannot fully participate in the labour market. All of this has been done under this government, and we do not have many problems in Austria, for example, other countries such as France with young people. With us, the young people have a chance! They see that they have a chance in Austria and that they do not have to stand on the road, for example, as in France, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: Youth unemployment has doubled!]] I admit that we do not live on an island of the Blessed, but we live in a country where everyone can count on legitimate opportunities to have a job, to be socially secure and to have a certain level of living. And this is a very positive thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As you constantly complain of unemployment, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, of course, unemployment is higher than ten years ago, but the unemployment rate has now fallen! It is 0.4 percentage points below the previous year's figure and 0.6 points below the April peaks of the nineties. That's a... [[Abg. Oils: What does “natural ” mean? Why “of course ”?]] I did not invent this myself, but this is a statistical one, Mr Ollinger. I just don't understand something: Why don't you believe the positive? Why do you not want to admit that in Austria measures have been taken which have not given us this depth, such as in the Federal Republic of Germany? Why don't you admit that our citizens are better off having the chance of a job? Why is all this so unpleasant to you? - I don't understand. Well, that's because you're not in government. And I hope you never get to the government either, because I really don't want to feel your actions. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have now shown that we have done a lot of positive things, but that does not mean that we can now put our hands in the lap, but, of course, we must set the course for the future. [[Abg. Shopf: Sad balance sheet: Youth unemployment doubled!]] The future lies in all cases in research and development, in the development of a better technology, a newer technology. And again, Austria has recognised that this government has recognised the urgent need to do something and that we must put impulses in this area. In the years 2000 to 2005, research has experienced a tremendous financial enrichment: In 1999, the research rate was 1.91 percent, and in 2004 it was 2.27 percent, ladies and gentlemen. And this has been successful despite all efforts to consolidate the budget, and we will continue to build on research, because, as I said: The future lies in our joining new technologies to create future jobs in order to preserve the prosperity of the Austrian population. That must be our goal. We must continue this path! All the messing that comes from your side, especially from the Greens, does not bring us any further step, but you have to bring in innovative ideas! But you will remain guilty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nothing else can be heard of you as just criticism and that you're doing anything bad. [[Abg. Oillingers: proposals!]] That has become your policy, that is the content of your policy. And if you go into the election campaign like this, I can imagine how the Austrian population will be able to justify it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2118	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2139	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé, what we hear from you and also from Mrs Minister, is a collection of public places that are looking for the same. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: They are “innovative”!]] We are trying to clarify what it would take to improve the overall population both in Austria and at European level. This was, for example, the proposal made by Mr Oellinger – because you ask: Where are the details of an initiative for minimum wage? These are our very concrete proposals with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, with regard to the promotion of women. Don't always pretend you wouldn't hear all of this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The problem we actually have at European level is that many people do not trust in the European Union when it comes to social security. People simply have no confidence that the European Union is able to provide social security. Most of this is also due to national policies, which are responsible for social security. People just imagine what would happen if this was transferred to the next level, and they are rightly concerned and rightly skeptical about whether this will actually go well. There are 72 million people at risk of poverty in the European Union and more than 1 million in Austria living at or even below the poverty line. I think that should give you some thought – beyond that, you always conjure all possible beautiful formulas. Mr Neugebauer, if you say that we are always talking about distribution, I will tell you: We are not only talking about distribution, but also, from our point of view, quite right, because: Much is achieved! There are record profits among the companies. There is an increasing prosperity in the European Union, on average. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only in Austria everything is bad!]] No, we have also experienced increasing prosperity in Austria, and that is good. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen as well as detonatative applause at the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The problem is just the distribution, and you don't want to look there. Mr Neugebauer just mentioned: What do we need a distribution for? [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a trade unionist!]] Yes, he's a trade unionist; I don't know whether to really highlight this positively. The problem in Austria and overall at European level is that the distribution is so uneven that there are few who benefit from this prosperity and that there is an ever-increasing amount of people who not only do not benefit from this prosperity but actually become relatively poorer. – This is not acceptable from our point of view, and that is in fact a political scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another specific point that you have also mentioned, Mr Neugebauer. You have said, unlike the previous governments, you think of the next generations. Apart from being represented in the last governments – it is not often enough to indicate that you were involved in it; however, let's leave it –: What are you doing? I am not talking about things like yesterday's 'environmental destruction law', which will destroy you, because you are destroying the chances of the youth and opportunities of the economy, but I am now just talking about how in Austria the situation of young people is looking forward to. You said you were dealing with many young people, Mr Neugebauer. So I'm wondering if you'll never hear that. The fact that youth unemployment is growing in Austria is a fact that you will not dispute. Even if we are still relatively good, we fall back. That is, we have growing youth unemployment, and that is, more and more young people do not know what to do after their training. I don't know if You've ever experienced this really live once when young people stand somewhere and feel that they're actually used for nothing. They are not used by this society, society does not want it, its labour force, its resources are not needed, they are not used, and they are sent somewhere, ultimately – not yet today, but ultimately, as the trend is currently showing, also in Austria – on the road. That can't be your wish! I can only hope you invest a lot more than you are currently investing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, one last word on taxation, because you are always so happy to laugh at the way we are dealing with the tax issue. They always say: The less taxes, the better! Then please explain to me, anyone, today and now: How will you cope with the increasing risk of poverty, which is also present in Austria, how will you bring about the necessary education for our youth? How will you secure everything if you say we don't need taxes? Please explain to me today where you will take this money if you no longer collect taxes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2238	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His welcome time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2260	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I had just expected and hoped for a somewhat more differentiated view of the Greens. Unfortunately, it was relatively one-sided. On the one hand, I believe that in Europe, what is happening to economic development and productivity, we have been experiencing a recovery in recent times, on the other hand, we cannot conclude that globalisation is considered by the population as a problem and not as an opportunity and that, in this context, key words such as “workplace”, “workplace security” appear. That is why it is certainly necessary for the project to be Europe for the citizens. It will be possible to live in a different way. We have to set up initiatives to reconcile the field of employment, but also social matters. What I am missing from you, and that is why my question now in this debate is the priority series. You first come to the point of disseminating and dealing with distribution questions and then, at some point, to the end, and that was significant in your remarks, Mrs Sburny, the tax question. I think you have said something right and wrong on both points. From my point of view, it is at the beginning of the economy. If there is no growth, and if there is no sustainable growth, there are no jobs either. Therefore, not the Murks around a new distribution thinking should be in the first place, but: Social is only what creates work, nothing else! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Secondly, as far as the tax question is concerned. You said something wrong, because I think it was right for Austria to have implemented a tax reform. We are not somewhere, but we are precisely in the interface between old EU countries and new EU countries, and if there is now a system with values in corporate tax law that simply attracts large companies, especially in the automotive sector, then Austria has to go there, otherwise jobs are lost. – That’s exactly what we did, and that’s exactly what the mistake was in Germany. There the big companies did not invest – with us already! Look Once you have a car or other: It is screwed together somewhere abroad, and then many brands “Made in Germany” stand on it. With us, the investment is there, and I think that is very correct. On the other hand, you are not wrong with the fact that tax competition cannot go down at any time, because it is unolidarian in the direction of social Europe. Those who in Europe are thinking of introducing in the tax field a bandwidth model that competition cannot go down at any rate are right. – Therefore: They are not in principle wrong, but in the basic trend one has to draw the border, and therefore I would have expected a little more differentiation. What do we need – and I want to show you two perspectives? On the one hand, we need a Europe in which we set examples, and on the other hand, in the national field – social policy is largely reserved for the nation states – the possibility of looking at some of Europe and taking initiatives together. On these three topics, the following very brief comments. Point one: Where do we see, with the widest possible participation of the population, that growth and prosperity are compatible in Europe? I would like to refer here to two points put by the Federal Government, namely the apprenticeship initiative with the Blum premium. This was exactly the right measure in difficult times to enable additional apprenticeships. We achieved an increase of around 4 percent. Descent across Europe, increase in us – a right measure! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Second question, raised by previous speakers: What if young people do not have employment, do they not see a goal, what they will do later in a united Europe? – Together with the labour market service, we have created a project for long-term unemployed young people. Of the 1,500 long-term unemployed young people in Austria, more than 1,000 are now in the preparation courses, 564 are on the average and 200 are taught. – This is something quite specific that we can show in Europe. The key to this is the corresponding job intermediaries. Second issue: Where can we take a look? – This is active labour market policy. While we have much more resources in active labour market policy than the European Union, on the other hand, when it comes to incentives for employment, we are only 13 percent applying – Europe 20 percent! If 40 000 people come to us from the former East Germany, then we probably have a lot to do in the field of active labour market policy to make it happen here in Austria too. Third topic to address at least: What is the strategy against globalisation? – Essentially, it’s “CSR Austria” or, you may also have it easier, eco-social market economy. This is not a company policy aimed at the shareholder, a purely profit-oriented policy, in order to maximize this, but one of society's obligations. We only awarded the trigos last week, the price of such strategies. We have an alliance across Europe – and I see this as an advantage, as progress – a European alliance of social responsibility. That is exactly the right counter-strategy to take and represent globalisation fears where one can act economically towards the environment, towards social and toward society. We want to continue this path. The course is set correctly, it is only to see it differentiated and to use it as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2335	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Your welcome time: 4 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2356	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, people wish themselves a social Europe! Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, growth and employment are not possible without social security! Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, the Member States are responsible for the development of social policy, but since, Mrs Federal Minister, this Federal Government has failed under Chancellor Schüssel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner, you forget that under this Federal Government we have achieved a record unemployment. Under this Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel, youth unemployment has doubled. How many times have we here in this House, when we have called for measures to combat unemployment, heard from Federal Minister Bartenstein that the sole of the valley was reached, that the sole of the valley was exceeded?- Oh, my God! Fortunately, in April the figures are better, it is spoken of as a trend change, but you have watched this development for years and approved it. This is the accusation we're making here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Neugebauer, as we have talked about distribution today and you have criticized the fact that the question of distribution by the Greens is, as it were, very one-sided: What distribution policy has this Federal Government approved? On the one hand, there are people who hack up to the fall, and on the other hand, there are people who have zero working time, zero paid working time! That is not a distribution, as we imagine it, because that is the most unjust form of distribution, and we reject it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In one we agree, Mr Neugebauer: 30 million jobseekers in Europe, 19 million registered unemployed – this is exactly what people are doing in Europe does not expect, that is not what the people of Europe want! This is what makes people afraid and why they are critical of Europe, which is why they are in part frustrated by Europe and why they cannot follow European thought. But it is also to be said again: Social policy is being made in its own national states. People also want to feel and feel something, and if they feel fear and fear, because the policy that is being made does not let them look into the future if they have fears, then of course they cannot have confidence in a European policy either. At this point you have to blame, you have not fought unemployment, but you have fought the unemployed people in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I do not need to list all the cuts in the performance sector, in the performance sector. I think you never have to deal with people who are unemployed, otherwise you could not talk as you talk out here, as Mrs Partik-Pablé, for example, has said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Forced by McJobs, service check, combination wage and so on, these are not the answers that people expect. People need jobs from which they can also live – and they also deserve jobs that they can live on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I am very pleased, Mr Neugebauer, that you have referred to the value-added levy. Much more have I enjoyed that many Ladies and gentlemen from your own ranks, unfortunately not the economic chamberers. I would also have liked Dr. Mitterlehner to refer to it, because perhaps after 20 years we will finally have to insist that there are other more reasonable models to deal with work than just tax the work. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Mrs Haubner, I know you are not responsible, I am sorry that Minister Bartenstein obviously has other obligations and cannot be here in the House in this essential debate, but a subject that must be dealt with as urgently as possible in Europe – even if the Chamber of Commerce becomes its own initiative, such as the “Building Fair” action – is the subject of “Roads out of Blackwork”. In this respect too, it must be said that it has unfortunately failed to achieve equal opportunities, equal opportunities and fairness. Europe will only be able to be so fair in social policy as the Member States deal with their people, and this federal government has unfortunately failed. Here too it is high time for a turnaround!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2457	Mr Walch has now come to the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2478	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Silhavy, believe that But not even what you just said out here! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We are in Austria and not in Germany, where your colleagues were at the government! Mrs Silhavy, who has done everything in Austria in the last 30 years as you have quoted it now? The biggest debt policy and the largest plea policy have been the SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Finance Ministers over the last 30 years! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] 60 000 workers have lost their jobs in the national industry. Voest, AMAG, “consumer” pleas and much more – and you trust yourself to go out here and act like it didn’t happen! You were already in the world at the time, perhaps you were even a member of SPÖ. 174 billion € Leave them to the Austrians through the incompetent SPÖ economic policy. 100 million € We pay interest every year for your inadequate economic, labour and social policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We, this government, the Social Minister, who has a social heart for the Austrians – listen, otherwise you don't know each other again! –, have created what you have long promised. [[Recent calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] What you didn't keep, we realized. We have created jobs. The biggest engine in the economy is the construction industry; I am proud that our Deputy Chancellor and infrastructure minister is the largest employer for the construction industry. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know you have to scream, because that hurts you, don't you? By 2012 €30 billion will be invested in road and rail. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Listen! It hurts, I understand, but it is best for the workers and the citizens in Austria. That's the engine of the economy. As much as is now being built on road and rail, has not been built in the last 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I'm not talking about the Greens at all. You should not normally speak, for you are the greatest obstacle to jobs! No matter where it is built, the greens are coming and demanding: No, not there, not there, not there! - What do you want at all? You demand – but avoid everything! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Greens and politics. – It has shown itself in Germany that they are incapable. The economy in Germany is on the ground, totally on the ground. Once you have something to say in Austria, I say: Good night, Austria! Minimum wage in Austria, a demand from the Greens, also colleague Csörgits from SPÖ will come back with it, although she is responsible for it, I ask you: [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Where is the legal minimum wage?]] Where is the Austrian Trade Union Confederation? Where are the social partners? Why didn't you take care of decent wages in the last 30 years, especially for women? What do you not do? BAWAG scandal, privileges in the ÖGB, penthouses, Bonzenwirtschaft, 80 per cent disposal and 24 month salaries in the ÖGB? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] These are not your tasks! The members of the ÖGB would actually have to be used for workers. Take care of the interests of the employees in the ÖGB and your members and deal with the money economically and sparingly, it is not always in your own pocket, for it does not belong to you, but to the members! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a cut for the house!]] What this government has created is, I must say, the best thing for the Austrian economy. We are an example in Europe, we just need to take it over and copy it: Key economic growth – I have addressed the economic packages. Tag Strengthening Families – I would have to talk for two hours to show what our Minister Ursula Haubner and our Minister Herbert Haupt have done to strengthen the families: [[Call the SPÖ:No, please don't!]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ]] Children's allowance, child allowance, single-earner allowance. Tax relief – both for workers and pensioners; it was the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. You've only been talking to each other. You did make a tax reform, but according to the principle of Bettelmann-Stecken exchange, that is, on the one hand you gave it to them, on the other hand you took it away twice. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Infrastructure, research, education, development and much more – all of this we have supported. We have imposed excessive demands on workers. We've got a deal for everyone, don't we? You've only spoken, we've done it. Harmony workers – employees, single-earner redundancies, unlimited extension of part-time work, an action for older workers, employment programmes, a anti-fraud law – all of this we have created. You used to talk about a anti-fraud law – we created it! Further: Education offensives, relief of workers, commuting fees, kilometre increase, laws relevant to people with disabilities that they are protected, and much more. We from BZÖ, our ministers, together with the coalition partner, have achieved a great deal of positive results. We are a model in Europe – it must only be taken over by the others, then the future of Europe looks positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2632	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address a general word to you: We have introduced the European Day for the Discussion of European Topics. We started with European social policy today, and that was all right, but in the course of the discussion we have increasingly slid towards the national level. I do not call for it, but I would like to point out the good intentions we have to judge things in Europe. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His welcome time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2672	Thank you, Mr President, for the informative words. Mrs. Federal Minister, don't be angry with me, but the party you belong to, or this alleged alliance should first take the word “future” out of its name, and second, it is actually so that the word “Europe” – counts! – never occurred in the previous speech. However, I think it is remarkable that some in the ÖVP series are still congratulating, first of all Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, who has now sought the space again. That's right, too! In view of the level of this debate, however, we can abandon Europe's plenary session. I can't do that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Bundesminister Haubner, you will not be mad at me whether I desire to abandon the term “future” in your party name if I now deal exclusively with the contributions of the ÖVP. After this previous beer tent, you need to know again what it's all about now. Mr Mitterlehner of the ÖVP and the Chamber of Commerce said that globalisation is not seen as an opportunity by people, but is only seen as a problem, and has regretted it. – You may regret this, especially from your point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Please, Mr Scheibner. In any case, You don't wonder that's the way it is. But you must not be surprised because you yourself are already victims of your own slogans. After all, they said: Social is – and there you really need the conjunctive that you bring it over your lips – not just what work is doing, but you are already up to saying that you are exclusively social, which creates work. [[Abg. May. Controller: What works!]] And that's just a nonsense in this form. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We know exactly what has happened in recent years. We have seen this in the 1980s, the 1990s, already in the American economic model which you seem to have modelled: that although we suddenly see in the Job Statistics somewhere that unemployment breaks away but at the same time has to take note that, instead of going to the hospital, more and more people have to stay in the street grave if they have a problem because wages are no longer sufficient for people to be able to afford the minimum social standards. It can't be that everything is social, which due to a deregulation care then becomes a job. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] That is the completely wrong way, at least for Europe. And then you wonder that the people – legitimate as we mean – are concerned about this development. Now, of course, I am right – only I do not quite understand why there has been a need for a start to education – that only what has been achieved before can be distributed. You're perfectly right, there's no discrepancy, because that's logical, it's right in itself! But now you can also be of the opinion – obviously this half of the House, but at least the Greens – that social minimum standards, or even in Central Europe or in Northern Europe, as has been pointed out, are also not just beautiful at a better level, because it is better for people, but also a prerequisite for better conditions of production, that certain ecological minimum standards are not only somehow a benefit for the future generation, but also a prerequisite for a particular economic model that can achieve something that can be distributed afterwards. [[towards SPÖ and Greens]] That is, I believe, still what would be or is worth defending on the European economic and social model – I have to use the conjunctiv again – because, of course, many already act as a disguise artist, in fact, they have attracted the “Pyjama of Deregulation” in their real policy, wherever they can, turn on the levers and in the morning – like now, some in beer tent mood, some think it to be serious – and announce in a beautiful suit: this line, this social security! - That's all unbelievable! Where does that come from? That is why – as I have to deal with those who are constantly referring to national efforts and efforts – that is the very same corner – that it is then done as if it were just the so-called national housework task to create jobs, social security et cetera. Completely wrong! Beware of those! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have to tell you, too, because sometimes I really feel like you already believe that. It is absolutely impossible to think, and this is the good thing about the European Union, namely that there is a need to invent a transnational concept if it does not exist that there is an association that can make common policies in globalised competition through mergers. But if the European Central Bank is seeking a high interest rate policy, and nobody comes out, and if the labour market and other regulatory issues are all going to deregulation, because the national governments can no longer be different, because others quietly and secretly promote this competition and stand at home and say that everyone should do well at home, then that is not only unfair, but that leads exactly to the dead end that no one understands. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we need this coordinated European economic policy with the objectives of environmental and social minimum security. There we have to go, and on the occasion there are plenty of jobs. This is where the state, the European Union, the national states also play a role. It must end with this bashing on the public hand, on public property and on the possibilities of public hands. That's what you have to answer with your neoliberal battalion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2763	Next word: Mrs Riener. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2784	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kogler, the EU can only be as good as its Member States. I would like to say this to you on this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] The EU has changed: It has not only grown larger, but has become a community of solidarity from an economic interest community. But it is too little to just look at what the others are doing. The challenge is to bring the high social standards of the Member States into line with competitiveness. Especially during the Austrian Presidency, it was possible to address and force some sensitive issues. What does the EU intend to do? . At this spring meeting, the European Council in the field of employment and social affairs decided that, for example, employment participation should be increased in very specific areas, as well as that 2 million jobs should be created annually, that life cycle concepts should be drawn up, that I think is very important, that the number of school dropouts should be reduced to 10 percent and that the duration of school leavers should be brought to six months by 2007 and to four months by 2010. [[Abg. Oils: Yearly!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Oils) In the EU! We're talking about Europe.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: With the Gehrer policy! No, thank you!]] However, I already have to say that Austria is already under this requirement with 9.1 percent for school dropouts. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] In addition, we are with the under 25-year-olds and with the more than 50-year-olds unemployed at less than three months of age, with regard to the term of mediation or the time to take action. And this, Mrs Silhavy, is the impact of employment policy, of growth concepts, of economic packages in the Federal Government. You can't say we didn't do anything. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Our Federal Minister Martin Bartenstein has already pointed out the important safety at work, the "flexicurity", for workers in order to maintain the economically necessary flexibility. But it is also important to me that we also consider older workers: How do we benefit from their knowledge, their know-how, or do we only see older workers as a cost factor? I believe that we already have to deal with how we deal with experienced employees. We must try to keep them healthy in the working world as long as possible, without forgetting the integration of disabled people. I think we also need to think about changeover opportunities for those who cannot work in their traditional professions until their retirement. In particular, social partnership is an important factor in ensuring that workers' interests are not undermined by global competition. In recent times, President-in-Office of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel has repeatedly repeated the importance of social partners: with Christoph Leitl on the employer side – and on the other hand with whom? Long-term built-up trust has been lost in Austria when employees' representatives compete against free competition and highly speculative and risky behaviour in the economy and then support it themselves. But if you look more closely, you realize that there are still the Christian trade unions who enjoy and deserve the trust of the workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The Neugebauer? It's against distribution!]] Europe will be measured in future by how we deal with each other: with youth, with older people, with women, with men, with disabled people et cetera. This is not just about the financial performance – also! – but above all about the like. Is appreciation felt in dealing, or do you stop what? What happens if solidarity ceases? Who has noticed that in recent years there has been much more to get something out of the social system than who keeps it? The 40-60-year-olds are currently those who secure the current pensions and enable young people through training life opportunities. Our political duty is to ensure that all those who need our support are assured, but the burden on education, pensions, social and health is equally shared. I would like to thank all Austrians who have been concerned about this; I mean it very seriously. It is through demographic development that Europe will have to prove whether it is able to balance this burden in order to secure the EU's most important project: social peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2905	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e2929	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With great interest, I have followed the reporting of the EU conference on the discrimination of women in the media and I have also noted that the Federal Minister for Smoking has complained about the situation in connection with the development of income shears. There I am with her. However, I can say with all clarity that we have achieved our collective treaty rounds with excellent success in the last few days and weeks. The trade union movement is more active than ever! On the other hand, the social partners are not missing, they are alive and, believe me, stronger than ever! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: It's only weak when it comes to numbers!]] On this occasion, estimated Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that income differences are also due to the fact that women have to stay at home due to baby breaks, breaks of childcare. And in this context, let me say critically: Since you are in the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, it has become more and more difficult for women to return to the work process, because you have failed in relation to your labour market policy, simply and decisively failed. It has already been said: We have 32 million people in the European Union looking for work. We have a high number of unemployed people in Austria. And many of the ladies and gentlemen who now sit in front of the television and listen to this discussion would probably go a lot better work, but because of your totally missing labour market policy they have no chance. [[Numerous calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] And that's what you're responsible for! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, one must also note very critically: In the European Union, regulations have been made, all of which have to be done in the field of active labour market policy. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP and the Free – BZÖ]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] The European Union is proposing this, but it needs to be done. But neither you have done it – nor those responsible in the European Union! There the ball is played again and again by one to the other. Something has to be done at last. An active labour market policy is announced! If the Federal Minister Bartenstein repeatedly points out that the number of employees has been increased, I must say: [[Abg. May. Controller: Record employment!]] He always forgets that this is due only to the fact that we have more people in Austria than ever. We have 1 million employees in Austria who are atypically employed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Controller.]] Yeah, yeah, you can't do anything, but you've been missing it all the time, including these people in a social security system. They also miss the need to introduce labour protection mechanisms. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which union is responsible for this?]] You just say you don't care about these people. [[Abg. Neudeck: So bad is the union? I can't believe that!]] How clearly this can be seen can be seen from a study by the Federal Minister Bartenstein. Not too long ago, he commissioned a study to explore the loan work more closely. This temporary work study shows that 65 percent of women employed in temporary work are at risk of poverty. And on my question why this study is not being published, the Federal Minister said: This has only been done for internal purposes! Please apologize if you order a study from public funds, then it is also to be published. And even if the Federal Minister does not match the results, which I do not mind, this study is on the table, because one can then see what policy you have made. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The workers are simply not important to you. But the consequences of this will certainly be felt in the autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3059	The next speaker on "Initiatives for a Social Europe" is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. His welcome time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3081	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have been surprised if the SPÖ had left this style of presenting itself to the public. Mr Csörgits spoke of “missing labour market policy” and carried out what had already been started by red: [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Among other things!]] She bets off, she runs bad manufacturing and, of course, is afraid of making a comparison of how Austria is set up internationally. Mrs Csörgits, the timing does not begin until 2000 when the successful Federal Government began to act in the sense of the citizens and in the sense of a social state, but the timing starts a little earlier – and forgets your 30 years of missing social and economic policy You always! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens want a strong social commitment in Europe. However, social and employment policies are – and this is the reason why the debate is constantly being held in the national field – essentially in the competence of the Member States. The EU Member States are doing the necessary homework. We have in Austria – and I can say that with Fug and law! – We started doing these homeworks in good time, we recognized the signs of time in good time, we have set up appropriate initiatives so that we can say: Thank God! I do not hide that, of course, new challenges come to us again and again. As an EU Member State, we must continue to work to give Europe a social face. This task is obvious, there are good reasons for this. Within the European Union, economic integration in the European internal market must be carried out through the individual Member States, and account must also be taken of demographic development and external influences, especially globalisation. The challenges are a source of tension in maintaining, building up, developing and developing high social standards across Europe, as well as ensuring the greatest possible level of security, while safeguarding competitiveness. And these two areas of tension must be reconciled! The interaction between Member States' economic and social policies and activities in these policies at EU level is important. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We've done the homework: We have implemented a reform of the pension system in Austria, which will also ensure its financial viability in the future. We have implemented a tax reform, thereby achieving a discharge of citizens – and I say, workers and businesses – and a security of jobs. We have made investments in the field of research and development, reaching the rise to a very high quota in the meantime. We have decided and implemented economic packages here at an economically difficult time at the right time. We made investments in the infrastructure. We have put forward further measures: a strong increase in labour market policies, a continuation of the employment plan for people with disabilities. We have made an increase in the compensatory allowance target. – But the opposition does, ladies and gentlemen, as if this were nothing! Let me conclude by saying: The basic condition for being social is a consolidated government budget – away from the debt policy of the 1990s and the decades before it! Prosperity on pump is feasible for a certain period of time, but certainly not sustainable. That threatens our social system. There has been a turn in Austria since 2000! This successful path, which will be taken by this Federal Government, will continue successfully in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3145	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3167	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have to apologize to my colleague Haidlmayr, who actually wanted to talk right now: She has a very acute circulatory problem. On the other hand, this gives me the opportunity to sum up very briefly what we have experienced in this debate so far. I have to say, I regret it – I really regret it! – that, in our attempt to present two, three, four themes and initiatives for a social Europe, not even was answered by the government parties – with very few exceptions –. What is this debate about? – I have tried to draw your attention to the following: In Europe, we have very large differences in income, wage differences. We have countries like the Baltic States, but also the new candidate countries where minimum wages of €100 are paid. On the other hand, we have countries such as Luxembourg in which 1 500 € are paid. We have not proposed, as Mr Neugebauer has suggested, that a unity minimum wage be set for Europe as a whole, but that what we want, Mr Neugebauer – and there you can listen quietly! . is that all 25 or 27 Member States of the European Union and European Union initiatives are being tried to achieve a certain level of minimum wages in all countries, in relation to the respective levels of prosperity. [[Abg. Neugebauer just writes]] That won't be too much to demand, will it?- Oh, my God! Here, Mr Neugebauer, we have also argued, among other things, that it is also a task of this Federal Government – which has been carrying out this in its programme since 2000 – to finally impose this minimum wage of €1 000 in Austria! It is a scandal that we still have professional groups that have to work around 600 € or 670 € gross for 40 hours! You cannot say that is a success card of this Austrian policy! – That is the point, Mr Neugebauer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you're a trade unionist, I am not responsible for distribution, then this is the bankruptcy of the Christian trade union policy, Mr. Neugebauer. - That's just for that. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Second point: Taxation of profits. . We are not only in the taxation of profits for minimum rates, which then apply to all countries, but also eliminate all exceptions, so that it is no longer possible to cheat between countries in the future on the rate of profit. Then: It is absurd that although we now have a nominal tax rate of 25 percent, it is effectively the lowest in Europe, even lower than in Slovakia. That's absurd! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They say: Thank God the lowest?- Oh, my God! What are you doing, Mr Commissioner, if Slovakia is now again reducing by two percentage points? Are we going down 2 percentage points again? What do you do if the Federal Republic of Germany lowers or if Ireland lowers? Do you go back down by another 3 percent? Let's go on this way? That's the only thing you think of? I agree, Mr Mitterlehner: We need these minimum rates! But we can also live well with the bandwidth sets. But do something! Do something! Don't just talk! [[Abg. Amon: We're doing something anyway! You're just talking!]] We already have the x-te debate, where the following points are made: Who says when and how often “social dimension of Europe”? There is no interest in people in Europe, how often you say “social dimension of Europe”! Do something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have made the proposal to do something about income. My colleague Werner Kogler has very impressively told you and, as I believe, quite rightly what one of the differences in the European social model may be with that of the USA or with those of other countries, but unfortunately is no longer – unfortunately! – that people can also live from their work. That's not too much to demand! If Europe doesn't make this and if you don't want it anymore, because you say: That's not our thing anymore! , then say [[Abg. Friend: Look at other countries!]] You're loud and clear! - We want to do that already! It must be a common goal of Europe to make this possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I just told you, Mrs Fekter: This does not or does not apply to many in Europe, many need two or three jobs. Young people don't even have a job. It's nice when Mr Mitterlehner tells us that the Chamber of Commerce is supporting a programme for long-term unemployed young people. Yeah, that's what I'm very much for. But the point is: Young people have been unemployed for a long time! However, we must not allow this to happen: young people who have completed schooling who still have hopes that have a future that has energy will become long-term unemployed, and only then will they set up a programme that will try to get them out of long-term unemployment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: What are you doing about it?]] We believe that it is necessary for this Europe – including under the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU – to set initiatives: in terms of income, with regard to minimum wages, with regard to minimum standards on profit or bandwidth models. Something has to happen! But we're not experiencing anything. You make yourself up and tell us that you are securing social Europe through your pension reform. Yeah, you know what I've got in front of me? [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Figures from the European Union that prove that you will reduce your pension reform by 2050 the expenditure on pensions measured by gross domestic product. You know as well as I do that we have half a million more pensioners in 2050. If less is spent on this than before, that means that this is a brutal reduction program. So come on. You do not stand for this social Europe! Unfortunately, the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3296	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. It wishes 5 minutes of speaking time; The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3317	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am right for my previous speakers when they say that globalisation, technical progress and demographic change are challenges for European economies. Of course, companies are also under pressure, because they have new markets to open up and meet the requirements of technologicalization. Of course, this also affects workers who have to prove a particular flexibility. At the same time, the pressure on wages and employment is increasing. You are right to say here that there are wage differences in the EU. Of course, measures must be taken in order to achieve a level playing field. It is a huge challenge for Europe to achieve higher social standards while ensuring competitiveness. At present, the Services Directive is under negotiation, where it is to be looked at exactly how it is being implemented. In particular, the provision of general care should be taken into account accordingly. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am also giving my predecessor, Mrs Csörgits, the right which has been said to take account of the measures taken by the national states in the context of the further development of the Lisbon objectives and the national reports that need to be made – in September 2006 the next reports will be requested by the Member States – in order to take account of the common objective of social inclusion. I think that this federal government has been particularly excellent in doing so, and of course they will be included in these reports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] There has been an increase in resources for active labour market policies, with a double labour market budget of € 1.9 billion. Investment in apprenticeship training, Mr Oellinger, has proved to be a very successful measure. I am thinking, for example, of the apprenticeship premium and the Blum bonus, which means that the entrepreneurs have received additional apprentices. Of course, the employment offensive for people with disabilities is also being continued. We can see that there has been a real success in the social field. This is also reflected in the increase in the compensatory allowance rate. This means that the minimum pension has been increased by 100 € to 690 € for individuals and 215 € for spouses since 2000. The tax reform also provided reliefs, especially for low incomes. 43 percent – 43 percent! – the taxpayers no longer pay wage and income taxes. This is a success, and it must be shown here very well! Some things have also been done in terms of childcare facilities. 10,000 new service places are supported by the federal government. New childcare facilities are being created in the countries. In Lower Austria, a new kindergarten law decided on more flexible and longer opening hours. And the pension reforms we have implemented contribute to ensuring the long-term financial viability of pensions in Austria. Mr Oellinger, these are facts. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And these facts will also be included in this report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It is important to give correct answers to the new challenges, and this is what makes this German government the most outstanding under Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. Therefore, we will continue along this path in order to bring Austria forward successfully in the social field in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3405	Mrs Hellerer's motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Maximilian Walch, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, colleagues in the field of services and general care is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3481	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. Its speaking time is 4 minutes; the rest of the speaking time of the group is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3505	It is nice if the colleague Hellererer explains to us service guidelines, but the whole social and health service law has not been adopted again. The value of your social policy, both at European and Austrian level, has already been seen. Mrs. Federal Minister, I give you the right if you mentioned earlier – and I am glad that this is already in the minds of the federal government members – that people want a social Europe, but also a social Austria. But here I – and I am convinced, not just me – ask myself the question: What have you or what has this Federal Government done to deal with the social gap in Europe? I say: Nothing you've done! The only thing you do is that you'll be happy every day and tell the Austrians that everything is vain. But I wonder – or I ask the people in front of the TVs at home: Can we really rejoice when 32 million people in the European Union and 300 000 in Austria are looking for work? Or can you rejoice when 70,000 young people are out of work in Austria? [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As Mrs. Partik-Pablé referred to earlier: Great, we are the third most important country in Europe!, I must say: No one can bite anything of it, that is no reason to rejoice, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary: Their statements have shown where we separate ourselves from the political content. The fact is that you have done nothing but have done nothing for an active labour market policy so that people in Europe can get better again. [[Abg. Amon: Who then decided on the measures?]] And then we wonder if 60 percent of Austrians have a negative attitude to Europe. That's no wonder! [[Abg. Amon: Who decided to take the measures?]] [[Abg. Großruck: Are you talking about the BAWAG or the ÖGB? What are you talking about?]] Have you ever listened to your Chancellor? The people with minimum pensions today have less in their pocket than they did five or six years ago, and the Federal Chancellor stands up, despite the many unemployed people and although more and more people live on the poverty line, and says that the social state actually belongs to slendered. [[Abg. Grossruck: Are you talking about the employees in the ÖGB who are now being canceled?]] Mrs Plassnik points out that Europe cannot be asked to do what Europe cannot afford, namely social security and employment. I say that it always depends on how to use the money available, and if we want it, we can demand it very well from Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Big Truck: As much money and as many jobs as the SPÖ has destroyed so far!]] Mrs Haubner also said that youth must be given a higher priority. – It does not stop anyone from finally doing something for the youth. But apparently you still haven't learned anything from the youth cramps in France. We don't care if our children, our grandchildren stand there and still have no job! We do not care if young people have no future prospects and 70 000 young people in Austria still hope for a job! Where are the approaches to over-company teaching workshops or the burden we have so often called for, which Mrs Riener has also called for? [[Abg. Großruck: We decided to do this at BAWAG! That was the burden compensation!]] Besides empty phrases, I haven't heard from you at all. We do not need a policy in Austria as you do, we do not need a policy in Austria – even at EU level – where the G’stopft’n are getting richer and richer. [[Abg. Murauer:... as at BAWAG!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: As at the BAWAG!]] We need a policy where social affairs are again in the foreground and people are at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3649	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Total residence time: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3681	I think that can be 4 minutes long for you, Mrs. Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, Mr Haidlmayr, I would like to express, of course, the best wishes for recovery. We hope that it will soon be better and that it will be able to participate in the debate – although, of course, the debate has not been very well up to now. Mr Spindelberger, if you look out here and say it's such a bad mood in the country, and if you're talking about everything sick, I have to tell you: This bad mood does not result from the work of the government, but from the problems you have in your party. The bad mood comes from the BAWAG, the bad mood comes from the ÖGB, and the bad mood may also come from my colleague, Ollinger, who turns out here three times and always says what does not fit. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] It doesn't look so bad in this country. We're not as bad as many people believe. That's not true, that's just not true! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Weinzinger, you were one of the first to stand out today. Your frustration speeches are now known in the house, but you are worried about my workplace, Mrs. Weinzinger, is not necessary. [[Abg. Oellinger: Hello!]] You do not need to worry about my job, because our good work will be confirmed! We will continue to sit in this government and continue to contribute to the fact that you do not get out of the job with your pity and illness. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Personally, I'm only here for the fourth year, I didn't experience the first two years of this coalition, but: For six years sick, no perspective for six years, no proposals for solutions for six years, that is distressing at some point! In reality, it has brought the opposition, especially the SPÖ – I am glad that Dr. Gusenbauer is here now – to a media highlight in recent years, and this media highlight is the BAWAG. It is and remains the BAWAG! Now the total loss of BAWAG has been calculated: €3.5 billion! [[Oje-Rufe at the Freeman – BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: How much schilling are these?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's 50 billion schilling, over 50 billion schilling, even! [[Call to the ÖVP: There's no such thing as that!]] And then Mrs. Csörgits comes here and speaks of minimum wages, speaks of jobs. – Mrs Csörgits! There could have been tens of thousands of jobs! With 50 billion schilling, we could have created over 100,000 jobs. There we would not have the discussion at all that we – of course – have too many unemployed. €3.5 billion in the Caribbean and then say: I have nothing to do with it! – I got an order call last time, because I called it arrogant. I'm not going to do this anymore, but it's at least superfluous to make up here, to make child-moving, and to pretend to be nothing. Back to social Europe. – Many things have already been mentioned today. This discussion process on a social Europe, this job discussion, these areas of tension that have already been mentioned today, all of which is not at all a question. Of course, there is a concern on the one hand that we have cross-border problems, but on the other hand only national strategies that act against them. And that is why there has to be the discussion, so it will be important to discuss other areas related to this: Integration policy, immigration; how many percent of the unemployed, especially in Europe, are elderly people, how many of these people have what training, how can we counter it? These are strategies that must be developed at European level, but we are required at national level in this respect. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, I have come to the conclusion. It has once again shown itself in this debate: While the SPÖ and the Greens are crying, we are working – we are changing Europe, we are shaping Austria, and that will remain so.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3777	The next item is the speech by Mr Leutner. Desirable time: 4 minutes; Total residence time for the SPÖ club: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3798	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We were now witnessing a further speech on this morning without any reference to the European Union and its social problems. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: If you've slept, that's your problem! Good morning!]] Mr Scheuch! I'll make you a suggestion: We take care of the ÖGB – and you take care of the mass grave of the interceptors and the Hypo Alpe-Adria, Mr. Scheuch! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] After all, you're busy enough. Let's go this way. [[Continued calls to the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who pays the 900 million? Do you pay the 900 million?! That's part of it!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the day of the Federal Government's balance sheet in social policy. [[Continued calls to the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] But we already have the following results, and I ask you to listen a little. I think that's an act of courtesy. 400,000 unemployed we had in winter, and you come out and say: The people in Austria have a chance!Unknown term type: "%s".? The real incomes of workers stagnate in this country, but not because of wage policy, but because of the loads from this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ellmauer: You don't believe that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the real income of pensioners has not been increased or maintained, they have fallen by 11 percent. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Yes, yes, everything is bad!]] This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, one can see from these results that it has become much colder in this country. Mrs Bundesminister Haubner, if you have called the pension reform a success in your speech today, this is legitimate from your point of view, but people have felt otherwise in recent months, and the poison teeth of this pension reform must be pulled over the next few months and in the next legislative period. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister Haubner, let me now come to the European issues. Mrs Bundesminister, I was not satisfied with this statement of government on ‘Social Europe’ today. This was a rather abstract painting that has been painted here today by the government fractions. You have interpreted a lot, you have raised particular points, but you have not said what you want to change in Europe, Mrs Minister, and that would be so important right now, because Europe and Austria must become social again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a game of mourning!]] [[Further call-ins]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] At present, criticism of the policy of the European Commission can also be expressed, because the original proposals for the Services Directive have played a great deal of confidence in Europe, because it simply has not become clear that the European internal market must also mean solidarity. We must not perfect the internal market in order to put wage standards and social standards at risk in Europe! I am glad that the Minister of Economic Affairs has not been able to assume the sole responsibility of the design of the Services Directive, because then we would have another result today and social security would be very much at risk. [[Abg. Lentic: But who? The ÖGB?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schools: Timeless redundancies...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by briefly saying: I believe that we must not put our hands on the social development of Europe, and we must actively shape policy. Then there is a future perspective for Austria and also for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e3987	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Total residence time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4008	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So you know who's talking now. This was the leading secretary of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, that trade union association, ladies and gentlemen, who, according to media reports, has placed €3 to €3.5 billion in sand, that trade union association, which has speculated with members' contributions from its trade union members, ladies and gentlemen, with the small income recipients who actually believed in having a protection in the trade union, speculated with the trade union funds and speculated them, that trade union association, ladies and gentlemen, where the red trade unionists clearly granted pension privileges, that trade union association, ladies and gentlemen, where the red responsibilities were collected twice. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ]] [[Oje-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steibbl: That's what they're pushing away from!]] And the senior secretary of this union is standing out and talking about social responsibility! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibbl: [in the direction of SPÖ] A naughtiness! An unspoiled cowardice!]] Let me tell you again: Social responsibility is also involved, and above all, in dealing with the entrusted money properly. The trade union federation and the red responsibilities have not done so. On the contrary: They have irresponsibly operated with the resources of the trade union speculation, have assumed liability, and now the taxpayer has to take care of it. That's the truth. It has nothing to do with social responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4093	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Cap. Total residence time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4129	Mr Klubobmann Molterer, I simply agree with you on the right to discuss social responsibility here. [[Lively applause at the SPÖ.]] You have to answer for the record unemployment in this country! You have to answer this disastrous economic account! You have to answer that you have done nothing for economic growth and employment! – And you stand here and play anti-union emotions high!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's a scandal you've represented here! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Then tell me you don't even know what you're talking about! Tell me you don't want to be a social partners here in Austria! Tell me you don't want strong trade unions in Austria anymore! [[Continued calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] And I'll tell you something: I'm surprised that Mr. Neugebauer has applauded in there who always plays the trade unionist out there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are not concerned about the concerns of the Austrian workers, just as in fact you were not concerned with economic development, and as in fact the lives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were not concerned with you. They no longer represent Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4209	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Ongoing calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer repeatedly gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I urgently seek sufficient attention! We shall proceed to the votes. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. A Member of Parliament on the initiative of the Federal Government for an EU Framework Directive on services of general economic interest. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Walch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 183.) [[11:18:00]] 2. Point European Security Partnership
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4287	We are now reaching the European Security Partnership. I call Mr Spindelegger. According to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall not take more than 10 minutes to make such a statement. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4311	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister of the Interior! Mrs Bundesminister Haubner! Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party have chosen a theme for our subject area in the debate on Europe, which is: European Security Partnership. And that for two reasons: On the one hand, because the Austrian People's Party gives the issue of security a very high priority overall, and on the other hand, because the European challenges are increasing in this context, and we can now, during the EU Presidency of Austria, also show our Minister for the Interior, which the European Union is moving forward in its development in the interests of citizens' security. I am pleased about this, and I am already congratulating Mrs Innenminister Prokop on her initiatives, which, as I mean, are already having a good effect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to highlight this issue of Europe's security in three facets, which I think are particularly important: How can we fight today the manifestations of crime – property crime, which can also be felt in Austria, trafficking in human beings and drug crime, where unfortunately we too in Austria, and especially the young people, are being pitied? The European challenge behind this is that through the large Schengen area we have a tremendous degree of freedom of movement, which we all appreciate, but this great freedom of movement also means that crime can develop in a way that we cannot accept. It is therefore necessary to set up common European initiatives here, because we have to deal with these manifestations, which are simply unacceptable to our free society, which are simply not acceptable to this Europe. I therefore particularly welcome the fact that the European Union has already decided in 2004 in the Hague Programme and thereafter in the Council's 2005 Action Plan to pursue a consistent set of objectives by 2010. I am particularly pleased that, in the course of our presidency, the Minister of the Interior has also shown how, as a medium-sized country in this European Union, not only can we show signs, but can really do so with consistent steps. Mrs Prokop, the Minister for the Interior, during our presidency, has managed to create agreements with our neighbouring countries, for the It is crucial that where these criminal developments originate, ladies and gentlemen, they are already taking action. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Is that already the Sunday talk?]] Colleagues Puswald & Co have nothing left for this subject. - Great! We differ in this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the Austrian People's Party want security – and you obviously don't want that from the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Empty words, nothing else! You should work!]] You'd rather talk about something else. Work with your questions – and let us continue to work consistently in the security field! I think that's a good distinction tester that we can find there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out that Mrs Innenminister Prokop, as Chairman of the Council, has managed to work together beyond the European Union and neighbouring countries with the Western Balkans countries to establish with Russia in a joint conference to combat crime together. I think this is good and right, and I am also pleased that this is already showing initial effects. Let's look at the crime statistics with us: The figures have already fallen as far as perpetrators from the immediate foreign countries of the East are concerned. Let us look at the development in property crime: The numbers have fallen! I come from the district of Mödling, where we have a large shopping center, the Shopping City South. We were able to report 20 percent less crime in 2005 in this area, precisely as regards property offences: precisely because of this consistent work of the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second major challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is the fight against international terrorism from European point of view. This too seems particularly important to us, because we must not give in to an illusion: We in Europe, too, are certainly the target of such attacks. We have seen in Spain, we have seen in London the bloody balance to be drawn in this context and the means by which terrorists take action against any kind of objective. We just can't accept that! That's why... – Yes, Mr. colleague, we are also doing something about it; I'll be right there. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Then we should do something about it, not talk!]] I am pleased that you can learn so much in this People's Party Europe hour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Not from you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They don't want to learn!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of combating terrorism is not one that can be spread out to the general public, Mr Puswald, but, as it were, “behind the curtain” through a very consistent joint work, through very consistent cooperation in particular with the services, so that something like this is prevented in advance, so that these terrorist cells are monitored accordingly and are not at all able to implement the crime and these bloody acts that they intend to do. I think this is very important, and Mrs Prokop, as part of our presidency, has also helped to ensure that these joint efforts are pursued with special vehemence. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... a misinterpretation!]] At this point, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen, who, within the framework of the Austrian executive, who also, within the framework of the Ministry of Interior and the subordinate departments, so to speak, “behind the curtain”, ensure that Austria remains safe. I think this is a very important thanks from the legislative body in Austria to these ladies and gentlemen, because many of them do not want to be asked in front of the curtain. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I understand! I don't want this in their place either!]] We thank ourselves for the fact that we have been spared in Austria so far. This is due to this consistent work in the interests of our citizens, and I thank you for it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would like to see the third major challenge for the future in terms of security, namely: How do we fight illegal forms of migration? How do we fight an abuse that unfortunately is going on and going on today? We learn daily from the news, which pressure is being exerted here on the whole of Europe, from the south to the east. All airports are also tried to immigrate into the European Union countries – by means of illegal means. I believe that, as Europeans as a whole, we must also confess that we cannot be open to everyone. This is also what we owe our citizens. There must not be a completely limitless immigration, we must not become a continent where everyone can wander around. This is not going to happen, nor do our citizens want it – and that is why we need a consistent preparation to be open to those who need asylum, but at the same time say with all vehemence that every abuse is not tolerated by us, but is suspected, ladies and gentlemen. These are our principles that we want to achieve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore pleased and welcome the fact that the European Union has agreed to establish a common asylum system by 2010 and to implement rules that will take place in the European Union. I am pleased that the Schengen Information System II is to be put into operation, that Europol is also more committed to cooperation, and that we are also using it, and I particularly note that our Mrs. Federal Minister, the Minister for Security in Austria, Lies Prokop, is also contributing by her consistent work to the fact that we can feel safe in this area too, because with a new asylum and foreign law, we have good conditions for this. I would also like to encourage her on the spot and tell her that her statements, especially what has affected the discussions over the last few weeks, are correct. [[Abg. Oils: Courage? You want to make her brave?]] You have to look at the problems with watchful and open eyes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is absurd to suspect that a minister of the Interior, who is responsible for this field and who is responsible for it, does not deal with the sensitivity that you may want in this area, but also addresses openly what we all see anyway, namely that people in Austria are traveling who do not want to integrate. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Then you should also show professional competence in reading reports!]] And that can't tolerate a society like ours. I would like to take this very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the one who settles in Austria must accept our rules, but not only the written law, but also the rules of our society as we live. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] This is a basic condition to which everyone should confess. I would therefore like to thank the Federal Minister not only for her courage, but also for her consistent work. It has done excellent work in the five months that we hold the EU Presidency, also from the European point of view. Mrs Bundesminister, if we continue consistently along this path, we can continue to say in both Austrian and European terms: Austria is a safer country on a secure continent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4560	Mrs Prokop spoke on the issue of an introductory opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4581	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this debate on European security partnership, I would like to stress in principle that it is the only way to maintain close partnership in order to ensure internal security at a broader, pan-European level. Almost all the challenges in our time are international problems: international terrorism, cross-border crime, global phenomena of illegal migration. These are just a few examples I have cited here. For some time, the Federal Ministry of the Interior has been pursuing an international strategy of cooperation and partnership at three levels. First of all, this is the close security partnership with the neighbouring countries, in the immediate vicinity, which is very important for internal security. The basis for this is modern state agreements with almost all neighbouring countries. These have led to a completely new quality of cooperation and this cooperation has only been possible. The second level is the area of European police cooperation. Here we can belong to the European Union's step-maker group; these are the Benelux countries, Germany, France, Spain. We have jointly drawn up the basis for the Prüm Treaty, which has just been discussed here in Parliament. The exchange of DNA data and fingerprints is something that is clearly defined in it. There is already a great interest from other countries in joining in the DNA data exchange in particular. We have access to the vehicle registers of the partner countries. We have a partnership to secure major events and to exchange information in the event of terrorist threats. But it was also very important that we have agreed on the data protection regulations. I really thank you here for the great cooperation! I have very consciously brought this model, which we have prepared, into our presidency, for further information systems in police cooperation, such as the Schengen Information System or the Visa Information System. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I really want to thank you for the broad partnership here in Parliament. The third part is cooperation within the framework of an international strategy. We work specifically with partners in the region in the wider environment, in particular with regard to security problems. In this context, cooperation with countries in the East and South-East of Europe, in the immediate areas of origin and transit, is particularly important. We have set the first priority there on the countries of the Western Balkans with which we have gradually established and build security partnerships. We have maintained this international strategy of cooperation with the three priorities I have mentioned very intensively in recent years, and we can really say: She's already proven herself! If I only refer to the Salzburg Group – we were together again yesterday in a meeting in Bratislava –: Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary together with Austria were their founders, they are EU Member States today, and we have decided to further develop this concept. In addition, we have included Romania and Bulgaria, as well as Croatia yesterday, in order to see this cooperation, this preparation for cooperation in Europe, in a Central European context. I believe that success is already measurable and that improvements in the situation in Austria are showing up. This concerns, for example, the concrete decline in figures in the field of foreign suspects. I say quite consciously, one must also mention numbers. If one doubts statistics over and over again, it is above all those that lead to these statistics. I always feel that this is very unfair because it is our officials, our executive officials, who are doing their work with enormous commitment. Therefore, I really ask it to see that these figures are an instrument of help and work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ and the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Just to show the cases here: In the first four months of 2006, in the case of Hungary the ads fell from 1 052 to 777; in the case of the Czech suspects there is a decrease from 311 to 289, in the case of Poland even from 1 591, thus almost 1 600, to 863. This is just to mention a few numbers; these are facts you can understand. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's getting less and less!]] What does it mean to be less and less? – These are suspects from these countries, they come to visit, they are free to travel. But we have created new opportunities within the framework of this police cooperation, for example with the new, current candidate countries. Here, together with colleagues, we have tried to address the problem of minor pocket thieves from Bulgaria in a priority action, and this has proved to be just as well as with the minor Romanian pocket thieves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In both cases, we have also tried to reintegrate these young people, not only to see the action, but also to help reintegration of young people in the home countries. This has happened in a really good cooperation with the municipality of Vienna and the International Organisation for Migration, and I thank you very much for this work! It turns out that this success really has a value, a value for all of us. During our presidency, we have also tried to bring this Austrian path fully into international cooperation. At European level, cooperation with the surrounding countries is now being stepped up, including in the Hague Programme and in the Action Programme. In particular, on our proposal, we have initiated a partnership for security between the European Union and interested third countries. Today we can report that we were very successful with this Austrian idea. We've got 4 on the 4th. In 2005 a very large international conference on internal security was held here in Vienna. More than 50 ministers and delegates from other countries have participated, from the European Union, the Western Balkans, the European Union environment, the southern Mediterranean, Russia and the United States. There had not been such a broad dialogue between the EU and third countries in the field of internal security. In the context of this Vienna conference, we have not only agreed on a detailed approach to a partnership of security between the European Union and interested third countries, which was accepted unanimously after a long debate, in particular with the Mediterranean. This partnership concept – called the Vienna Declaration – has been defined and defines concrete objectives, principles and key elements of cooperation. I think we can really call it a milestone in the European security partnership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Building on this, there will now be various security partnerships. One already takes a clear form, namely those with the Western Balkans. This partnership is, of course, in Austria's greatest interest. The Western Balkans is a region of origin and transit of drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, illegal migration, and this is right on our doorstep. We must therefore be particularly interested in Austria for the European Union to work actively with these countries to address these security problems. We have already decided, in principle, on this priority of partnership with the Western Balkans at the informal Council in January, that is, we have proposed this, and it has also been accepted. In the past months, our experts have conducted ongoing negotiations, thus preparing this close partnership with the countries concerned. We actually started with this last year when I made a trip through the Western Balkans and asked the ministers that they would like to bring their own wishes with them. After that, there were two ministerial conferences, in October in Brdo and in November here in Vienna. At the Vienna conference in May, the Western Balkans ministers were able to take up their positions again, and on the basis of this EU cooperation strategy for the Western Balkans, which is now ready, we will be able to attend the meeting on 1/2. In June this concept will be discussed again and, I hope, it will also be adopted. I think this is a very important condition. In order for it to work even better, a corresponding partnership among these states was also agreed at the Vienna conference in May. The Western Balkans, Romania and Moldova signed a police cooperation convention for South-East Europe at the conference. This cooperation with the European Union must be brought about very urgently. We have worked out this Convention, the Stability Pact for South-East Europe – Germany, Austria, EUROPOL – for one year. We have always been consulting and accompanying colleagues, and this is an excellent basis for actually lifting the safety standards in these countries. With this initiative, countries are clearly guided by European standards, and the form of cooperation we have had in the European Union for a long time will now also apply in the south-east of Europe. There is a mutual exchange of information, and joint investigation teams are on the move in cross-border cooperation. I believe that we can say right and right that the Western Balkans focus has really been put on a good basis. Ladies and gentlemen! Global threats such as international terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking and trafficking, illegal migration can only be solved with global responses. That is why we have set another very demanding objective on the agenda: For the first time, we wanted to launch a dialogue between Europe, Russia and the USA in the field of internal security. I'm really happy that we made it on 4 May. In May here in Vienna, the ministers of the internal affairs of the enlarged presidency – that is, the next four presidencies – were involved in bringing the European Union and the ministers from Russia and the United States to a table until 2008 in order to be able to offer continuity. We have achieved more than we expected! We wanted to initiate this conversation, but it has been much more, because it clearly expressed the willingness to cooperate, to be able to achieve the feeling of being able to create an added value here. Europe, Russia and the USA have tried to do this, and we have defined the key principles for a concept of future trilateral cooperation. We have defined very specific priorities, and we will already have a first expert meeting in these areas in the second half of the year. The priorities are drug trafficking, document security and international terrorism. I believe that this Vienna initiative can also mark the beginning of a new form of global security cooperation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is an important element of the European Security Partnership. I would like to mention, because it was a great deal in total, just a few more points in the implementation of the Hague Programme and the action programme. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is the television time, Mrs. Minister! Very ‘ considerate ’!]] Asylum and migration: Here too, we have implemented many points. We will be in June at this... – I am constantly being criticized for the fact that Parliament does not know anything. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] I would ask you to take note of these points too. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Say it after 1 pm!]] [[Further calls.]] We will launch the information system on the countries of origin. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We will have the country of origin documentation, the return flights; the EU pilot project “Protection in the region” will come; and we will also be able to complete the Schengen entry into the Commissions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is very rude! Unheard of!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I believe that we have achieved a great deal with this, and I also believe that this will make a decisive contribution to ensuring that security is brought forward in important steps. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is unfair, Mrs. Minister!]] The Presidency has been committed to this because, in no other area of cooperation, honest cooperation becomes as clearly felt as in the field of security. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Very unfair!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You do not respect Parliament!]] I believe that this has made a big step towards greater security for the European Union, but also for Austria, and especially for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4766	We are now going into the debate. As already announced, the speaking time is as follows: It shall not take more than 10 minutes for any speaker or speaker. Mr Kößl, who is next speaking, has decided to reduce his speaking time to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4794	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have now received a very impressive presentation of the importance of the European Security Partnership from the Federal Minister. I congratulate you very much on this! Security has a very high priority, and we stand for this security. It must be our all interest that people feel safe. Security is a central concern of the citizens of our country and is one of the basic needs of people. Security is also a determining factor for the quality of life of the population. It is therefore important that Austria is not only one of the safest countries in the world, but also that this safety standard can be maintained in the future. Two important prerequisites are needed: firstly, that the framework conditions are available to ensure the best possible level of security in your country, and secondly that cross-border cooperation in the field of security is and works. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria quickly realized in 2000 that, due to the changed conditions in Europe – the disappearance of the Iron Curtain, so Austria has moved from the edge of Europe to the centre of Europe, the possibility of travel freedom and the increasing mobility of people in these countries – also increased crime in Europe and, of course, in Austria. Therefore, the security structures in Austria had to be changed in such a way that we can meet these new challenges. By bringing together the guards, installing a Federal Criminal Office, renewing and modernising the technical equipment and the fleet of executives, the legal changes for extended risk research and the possibility of video surveillance and setting up protection zones – to list only a few measures here – we have done very well in Austria's homework. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But one must be clear and conscious: International crime can only be combated internationally. Therefore, at the same time as the restructuring of the executive in Austria, cross-border cooperation was forced and, through many initiatives of our Interior Ministers, substantial improvements were achieved in the European security area, in European police work and in European police cooperation. Here are some examples and evidence that we are a strong engine in this Europe: Installation of liaison officers in our eastern neighbouring countries and in other strategicly important countries was a very important step. The fact that we have a European terrorist coordinator today is due to a suggestion from the Austrian Minister of the Interior. The Salzburg Group's partnership, already mentioned by the Minister for the Interior, has now been extended to include Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia. This close cooperation with the countries of the Salzburg Group brings each of these countries together More safety. This also applies to us, because the better the police work is in these countries, the safer people live in Austria too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Austrian officials hold leading positions in European and worldwide police organisations such as EUROPOL and INTERPOL. An Austrian is responsible for the detection service at INTERPOL. Together with a Innsbruck university professor, he has established the world's largest DNA database, which is a milestone for more security in the field of education and prevention. As far as our work in the Schengen area is concerned, the importance of European cooperation is already evident in strengthening the joint campaign alone. At present, 15 states are interconnected, and we are working – and especially the Minister for the Interior – to ensure that the new EU member states and other states participate in this modern system of arrests. We are the co-initiator of the Prümer contract – as the Minister of the Interior has already done – which further strengthens police work between Austria, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Spain. The aim is to make faster and better use of technical networking possibilities, to optimise data exchange and to significantly expand operational cooperation. A special milestone during our presidency is the Vienna conference. We are convinced that we must seek our partners in the security field beyond the borders of the European Union. That is why we have laid the foundation for a partnership in security between the European Union and the third countries that want this partnership. This Vienna conference is a masterpiece in the history of security relations! Never before have so many safety professionals shared this responsibility and discussed the problems in the security field together. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you very, very cordially! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] High house! The Vienna Declaration, adopted at the Vienna Conference, has made an important step towards a European security partnership. We are committed to an active role in the fight against international crime and terrorism. However, we also see clearly and clearly the problems of illegal migration, which the Federal Minister has also addressed today. It is our responsibility towards the Austrian population that we work together with our partner at European level to develop concepts and solutions in this area. We have a great interest in a functioning European security partnership, and we will continue to be very committed to it because it is a future-oriented and sustainable concept for a safe home. With us, Austria has become a lot safer in recent months and years, and especially now during the Presidency of the European Union. I invite everyone in this House to this security concept and to confess to a secure Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4888	The next item is Mr Dr. Josef – no, Deputy Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e4936	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question of the European Security Partnership and the contribution each country can make is indeed one of the essential issues that many people are moving not only in Austria, but everywhere in Europe. There must be a clear view of the challenges – and also of the right and possible answers that can be given to them. It seems particularly important to me that you clean up some mistakes in the past. Mrs. Federal Minister, your predecessor believed that you could create more security with fewer police officers. But the crime statistics of recent years with an increasing number of crimes and a lower level of investigation have shown: It's not possible! If you drive through Austria and talk to the population and our executive officers, you will find that if you want a higher level of security in Austria, you also need the necessary number of police officers. For with fewer police, there is no more security, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second thing I think is very important is our fight against terrorism. I think it is quite essential that Europe has a common approach here, including with regard to our investigation and investigation methods. That is right and good, which is why the House has also taken a number of joint decisions on this issue. However, I believe that we must also be aware of the contribution we make through certain measures to increase or reduce terrorism. And I believe that every war in the Middle East, any further destabilisation of states and societies leads to further terrorism, but not to the reduction of this problem! That is why I welcome the fact that a number of Member States of the European Union have recently declared that they are getting out of this war and withdrawing their troops. Only with a stabilisation of the Middle East will it be possible to combat terrorism effectively in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The third thing is: The question of integration and the question of the emergence of parallel societies was raised. It is a problem – no question at all – that every society must deal with the fact that all people who live in a territory, no matter where they come from, share certain values and certain forms of life; one must not necessarily belong to the same religion, here there is pluralism; but, of course, it should also be a certain behavior to each other a matter of course in a society. I admit that it is not only about laws, values and constitutional principles, but also about what is sometimes unwritten by the Common Sense in a country. I think it's important that you get it. Only, of course, if you ask for obligations, will you have to give the possibilities for integration. What I don't understand is, if you say that you want all those who live here in Austria to integrate – I think it's right – and on the other hand, you create a group of second-class employees, namely the so-called seasonal kidneys, in which they are not at all wanted to integrate, because they should only come to Austria for some time and provide their labour cheaply here, and you assume that they then leave the country – which they do not usually do – to bring them back on the next occasion. [[Intervocations at the Freeman – BZÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well started, but now it's bad again!]] With this enormous increase in the number of seasonal eggs – at least around 20,000; in 1999 there were 12 000; now there are 32 000 approvals – a group of people are deliberately created, whose exclusive function is to exert a wage pressure on the Austrian labour market, so that people need to work harder here but get less money for it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's completely wrong now! Completely wrong address!]] That, I think, is inconsistency and unfair, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] That's why you have to be consistent, I mean. If you say that you want integration, you should not create groups of immigrants for whom integration is excluded from the outset and which you actually push into illegality. A fourth point, which is also very important... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please? – [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect! That's not true!]] There's confusion with the ÖVP: You do not want to accept that you create uncertainty among the workers in our country with the wage-pressors you bring back to Austria. This is extremely bad, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you are right to believe that sufficient knowledge of the German language is needed in order to integrate – and it is necessary to make a social rise in Austria that you can do German properly – then you must ensure that the possibilities are also given. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You were always against the fact that there was a school year before!]] If you have been responsible in Austria for six years and one of your main educational mistreatments has been that you have reduced the number of accompanying teachers over years, you have achieved that learning the German language for immigrants is more difficult possible. [[Abg. Kainz: Increased! Elevate!]] A very disastrous misconception, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now, if you were ready just before the election to meet some of the demands of the national leaders, because you have previously reduced and now have 300 accompanying teachers, I will tell you: The ÖVP heads of state are also of the opinion that Mr Kärntner's head of state is also of the opinion that it is still far too little, because it is just a drop on the hot stone. If you really take integration seriously, you have to give the children the opportunity to learn German. This can only be done by providing the sufficient number of teachers. [[Abg. Kößl: Then why are you... in the citizenship law?]] This is the basic requirement for everyone to get more opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the issue of security, as far as it is related to integration issues, is not just a matter of Sunday's speeches, but a matter of action that needs to be taken urgently in order to facilitate the lives of people in Austria, whether they are born here or not. [[Abg. Großruck: Here you are the first Sunday speaker!]] I think it is quite strong that after all these failures of the last six years, in which many of the problems that exist here have been created by your policy, now, so to speak, in the last minute, that you have a problem to solve. [[Abg. Grossruck: You were against it!]] [[Abg. Großruck: You were against a new foreign right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For 30 years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Paradox, what you say!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, that will be too little! If you want to solve the question of integration in Austria, you have to reduce the number of seasonal kidneys, because these are second-class workers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, you have to increase the number of accompanying teachers so that the children can learn German. And finally, you also have to make a security policy that will increase the security of more police officers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] That would be three concrete contributions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5186	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. You also have 8 minutes of welcome speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5207	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Gusenbauer, one thing I would have expected from you here, namely that you will not say again that the policy of the last six years has been to blame, that the Federal Government has caused all of this, but that you are practicing a little more self-criticism and that you are also accepting your own mistakes. If you are rightly addressing the problem of integration and the lack of integration of immigrants into existing societies, not only in Austria but also in Europe, you should also say why these problems have arisen. These problems have not arisen in the last six years, but the problems we are discussing today are the result of a European and Austrian immigration policy that has been missing for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, where a policy of open borders has been spoken, where one has been recruited for work. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: (on the ranks of the ÖVP pointing) There the...!]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ and the ÖVP]] I can still remember the words of the old mayor Zilk after the turn in the Eastern European countries, when you went there and said: Come to Austria! Vienna is an open city! [[Abg. Eder: This is a nonsense you tell!]] To the politicians there, the gray bears have ascended – in good Viennese – and they have said: You turn us away from our people we need here to build our society. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: (renewing the ranks of the ÖVP) There were the economic ministers back then!]] All of this didn't matter because ideology was in the foreground. The ideal of a multicultural society, it is, ladies and gentlemen, what the problem has been: that one has seen security policy and immigration policy as an ideological means of politics. And this has caused the problems here. One has not taken care of the means of integration, one has not taken account of the number of immigrants, one has not taken care of whether there are schools, jobs, apartments and leisure facilities and whether language skills are available and language courses are organized accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: German lessons rejected!]] All of this was completely no matter what, the multicultural society was important. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In a multicultural society, it is not important whether people can get German, because everyone should live for themselves. And what is the result? Today the parallel society. This is the result of your ideological goals of a multicultural society, because there has been no integration. Today, for example, in Berlin, which is always praised as a great model, several completely isolated social classes live side by side, there are parallel social orders. This creates the conflicts, it creates the problems. Admit this at last and do not act here as if others were guilty of it! It is these left ideological goals of the seventies, eighties and nineties that caused these problems. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] This is exactly the direction, Mr Gusenbauer, when you say that the seasonals cannot be integrated. – They don’t need to integrate, that’s our goal too. If, on the one hand, we need labour and on the other hand there is a surplus of labour in other countries, that is all right. Then these workers will come to Austria, do the necessary work and then return to their home countries. There is no need for integration, nor is it possible, but it is quite simply a sensible policy, where people in their countries are created a corresponding social basis on income and where we have the need for labour. The whole thing without taking into account the problems of immigration. Unfortunately, you don't understand that until today, but in the end you have to deal with it. [[Abg. Steibl: How many others they don't understand!]] We are concerned with real integration as well. We have already pointed out the mandatory German courses in the 1990s, which you have always strongly criticized. We have pointed out that in schools there must be a maximum proportion of children with a non-German mother tongue of one third. Interestingly, I hear this now about the coalition partner, but unfortunately too late, because with a proportion of children with non-German mother tongues of 80, 90 percent of Vienna schools, this third is difficult to implement. We have called for this in the 1990s, because only a smaller group can be integrated into a larger group. If we have 90 percent children with non-German native languages, who do you want to integrate where? – These are the problems you now cynically comment on, but they have caused you. And everyone suffers now. The Austrians suffer, the immigrants suffer because they have no future because they have refused the integration possibilities. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I'll tell you: This is a European problem. The overall security policy must also be addressed at European level, whether it is in the area of crime or elsewhere. In Europe, we need international organised criminal gangs that are almost militaryly structured, equipped with the best equipment and persons and well-trained, the corresponding answer. This is only to be done internationally, also through the appropriate networking of the message systems. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Take-off hunters!]] Yes, that's the only thing that comes to mind. First of all, you are not in your place, so you must not intervene at all, and second, that is the only thing that comes to your mind. The only thing you can answer is always the interceptors! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction SPÖ) Reflective!]] It doesn't matter to you whether people are afraid, because every day they break into the cities. It does not matter to you how to deal with international terrorism. It does not matter to you that we must at last use something for European security. For you, only the next elections are interesting, and they only think: Take-off hunters, take-off hunters, take-off hunters. I'll tell you, If we are already discussing European security policy, be honest at last! The next topic will be the neutrality again, because something else does not come up with the SPÖ in elections: Take-off hunters and neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You chose the topic!]] And then you say you have nothing to do with all of this, you are not interested in European security. On this you will only give Sunday's speeches, but otherwise everyone else who deals with them will be at risk of neutrality. Tell the population, including your base, the truth! The reality is that, of course, with Austria's membership in the European Union, we have entered into an obligation to fully follow the European Union's common foreign and security policy without any exception. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Buy intercept hunters!]] That is what the Austrian Treaty of Accession says, Mr Colleague. I'll read it to you if you don't believe it: Austria undertakes to ‘be fully and actively involved in the Common Foreign and Security Policy’ and to take all the measures of the European Union fully and unconditionally. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Where do you find "reception hunters"?]] This was signed by Austria in 1994 under a SPÖ Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Where does the text contain "reception hunters"?]] In 1998, under a SPÖ Federal Chancellor, Austria amended the federal constitution so that Austria can now also participate in fighting efforts to create peace without a UN mandate. And then you always pretend in the discussions that you don't want all of this. You know... – It's not inside, Mr. Puswald? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Where did you take your lawyer's exam? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In the Caribbean!]] I'll show you. Unfortunately, you have no idea of constitutional law. But that's this masking tactic you keep making. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He doesn't have a mandate anymore! He was no longer set up by his own party!]] They just hide everything because you see your chance to vote down the stream. And that is irresponsible! Of course, it is also necessary for us to make a contribution to making Europe safer, because security in Europe is also our security. If there is a conflict in Afghanistan – we know that the drug flows come from there to us in Vienna, Graz, Linz and Innsbruck – then we have an interest in Europe taking part in a satisfaction in this country. We know that from the crisis regions in Africa, traffickers bring refugees to Europe, which are then included in drug organisations. Therefore, we have an interest in supporting stability on this continent too, in a comprehensive system of prevention, of course with development cooperation, but also with a clear signal that we in Europe together defend our values and will also ensure that human rights, wherever in the world, are enforced by common means. This is European security policy! There's... – I know you don't like all of this, but that's your responsibility. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But speaking time has expired!]] We have this responsibility, we are also dealing with this common security policy – in justice, in the interior and in the defence of the country. They have sent themselves away from it, although all of this was done in the silent chamber, but told the people the untruth.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5484	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5505	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This was now a further oranger bow from the right of asylum to the need for Eurofighters. [[Abg. Parnigoni: asylum seekers with Eurofighters...!]] Let me start with the latter. We asked the Minister for Defence in a few committees: Do we need Eurofighter for the internal security of the Republic of Austria? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] He answered: Yes! [[Abg. Murauer: Yes! That's right!]] We asked: For what occasion? He said: Especially for an occasion: the 2008 European Football Championship. Our football stadiums must be monitored with Eurofighters. [[Abg. Scheibner: Demagogie!]] I do not want to comment on this, but a better explanation has not been given to the Minister for Defence in the National Defence Committee and in other committees. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Mayor's damage said that!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid:... says the untruth!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Conscious of the untruth!]] Now imagine: 4 billion € taxpayers who are missing in security policy – and for this the Interior Minister sitting here is a good witness – at all corners and ends, are needed to monitor the airspace over football games! – This is absurd, so we should not rightly stop. [[Abg. Unimaginable!]] [[Abg. Großruck: To all listeners: Pilz says the untruth!]] I'd like to hold on to one thing: It should not be forgotten, in addition to the ÖVP, the BZÖ with Jörg Haider and Peter Westenthaler is also the Eurofighter and interception hunter party. [[Abg. Kößl: We stand for security! The ÖVP and the BZÖ stand for security! You're miles away from security!]] And this – at least – political child should not be quickly removed now. - First of all. Secondly, President-in-Office of the Council Schüssel would have had a great opportunity in security policy, namely – and I quite agree with Herbert Scheibner – to make it clear that there are common European principles in security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: To make the pilot's license!]] These are especially – of course! – citizens’ and citizens’ rights and human rights. But why does Chancellor Schüssel accept that the United States is to conclude agreements to keep old camps and build new camps in the area of the European Union – camps which in Brussels and Strasbourg are adopted by institutions of the European Union and the Council of Europe that are towed and tortured there, camps that are deprived of the sovereignty of the European States and the Union? It would be the minimum requirement of a President-in-Office to draw the attention of the United States and the United States President planning an Austrian visit to see that the European Union does not tolerate camps in Europe according to the Guantánamo section of the USA! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where is the open and clear word of ÖVP or BZÖ security policy on U.S. missile stationing plans near the Austrian borders? Where is the clear and clear word of the ÖVP and the BZÖ on unprotected nuclear power stations that are close to any terrorist attack? Where's there anything? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where you have to look! There's enough!]] I ask you, Mr Scheibner: Why do you take terrorist threats that exist to justify that the phones of all people in Austria can be monitored? Why do you address terrorist threats in order to justify that cross-border events – for example by trade unions and environmental organisations – can be monitored in the future and personal data can be exchanged by trade unionists, trade unionists, Attac activists and so on, but with regard to unprotected nuclear power plants, which can be attacked with the simplest technical means in Bavaria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, there has not yet been a single political discussion on the security of the interior ministry and of the Federal Chancellor with our neighbours? [[Abg. Kößl: You live in a peril of persecution! Unimaginable!]] You just look away! This is in line with yesterday's eco electricity law decision-making. Since it is really about nuclear problems – about the European nuclear industry, about the real dangers of Austria, for example by terrorist-hazarded nuclear power plants –: Look away and devote yourself to the adversities! It's important to you: How do I monitor the phones of all people in Austria? One last comment, because this is a debate – and it is worth pointing out – in which there is not the usual frontal formation here in this House. In the debate on internal security, we Greens have experienced for more than a year the fact that despite public disputes on all the essential issues and in all important legislative instruments ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and SPÖ are of an opinion. The three parties of the government and SPÖ are involved in the project of arbitrarily tearing apart families in Austria on the basis of a reinforced asylum law. There is a four-party alliance with SPÖ when it comes to the project to extend the thrust and put more and more people into thrust. In the project, traumatized victims who are applying for asylum in Austria, there is the great security alliance including SPÖ. With regard to the question of comprehensive mobile phone surveillance and call data recovery, there is the great security alliance including SPÖ. On the question: Should cross-border data be passed on by trade unionists and environmental activists? there is the great security alliance of ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and SPÖ. We've been wondering again and again: Why is there this four-party unit here, why against reason, against fundamental rights, against civil rights? [[Abg. Murauer: Because it's right!]] Why did four parties – including the larger opposition party – find themselves there? – And there is a single answer: We are at the beginning of a populist security campaign. There is the decision of four parliamentary parties to enter into this security populist race – at any price, even if the price is fundamental rights, if the price is integration, if the price is peaceful living together. [[Abg. Kößl: Peter, tell us that security has no place for you!]] Every price these four parties are willing to pay to bring about short-term election benefits! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: The security of citizens and people has always been important to us, but you don't care!]] I would like to speak to you on one point – Alfred Gusenbauer did not point out: Mrs. Federal Minister! Why have you not made it clear to this day that the free-invented number of 45 percent of non-integrated foreigners in Austria announced by you in the completely unsuccessful security campaign of the ÖVP is simply wrong? [[Abg. Kainz: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Stay on the ground of reality! Go out and talk to the people! Then you see the situation!]] Or do you really think that 16-year-old children with school problems, with labour market problems... [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There's a huge problem. We know that not only in Vienna 16-year-old children with Turkish-speaking parents are 28 percent not in education and not in the profession. [[Abg. Kainz: Especially in Vienna!]] Believe that there are 16-year-olds sitting there and saying: I decide for the Imam and against the university professor!Unknown term type: "%s".? Faith You really say that 16-year-olds in Vienna or in Bregenz say: I want to go to the mosque, I don't want a qualified job, I want to live impoverished in a linguistic ghetto, don't make a career and my children and my relatives won't secure the future!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you really put this up with young people whose parents come from somewhere else than your parents or my parents? - No! We all know that there is a lack of teachers and teachers, that there is no material support, that there is a lack of integration in living and that there are enough talents among these young people. No talentlessness is the reason why, for example, the higher education rate of children with Turkish-speaking parents in Austria is no longer statistically detectable, far below 1 percent. This is not due to talentlessness, but to political and educational ignorance! There has to be a policy on education! There is a security policy! But as long as you pursue a policy of decommissioning, you can use such populist and anti-human, freely invented numbers, with slogans of 45 percent of involuntary integrations, even though you can incite people against each other and make political change, but do not solve any problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5812	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if they are not made out of their own place, there is a risk of ordering! I would remind some Members of our provision on this matter. The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5837	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, during the EU Presidency, there are three major successes for this Federal Government, namely that the social state remains so secure that Austria is a good economic location and there are jobs for most people in Austria and that we have a very high level of safety I would like to ask the Commissioner if he will not be able to do so, because we do not want to do that policy which Mr Pilz has just presented when he was insecure. We, the Federal Government and the Austrian People's Party, want as much security as possible in this country, and we do everything we can for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! 25 countries have joined forces in the common foreign and security policy and have taken this common foreign and security policy as their headline. This also results in European security and defence policy. It has already been discussed the new challenges of security policy, which are no longer conventional, where the war is not at the doorstep. We don't need that either. But we have to expect unconventional threats; I can only mention three: Drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, proliferation or terror. However, each country is primarily responsible for its own security – also or in particular a neutral country, as it is Austria, as well as Switzerland or Sweden, for example. We have to provide our safety bodies with personnel, equipment and equipment – and this, ladies and gentlemen, on land – please listen! – and also in the air! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Safety does not stop a meter above the ground, but also monitoring the airspace is an essential part of our security control. You will give me the right, even if you always show down from SPÖ – I understand that – we will have to take care of our airspace control like any other country in Europe and the world. And we will do the same. This federal government has therefore acquired the Eurofighter because we need one of the best aircraft in European production for airspace control and, lastly, for their safety. Let me give you an example: During the Latin American summit in Vienna, there were 23 airspace injuries alone. I should also like to draw attention to the fact that it was the socialist mayor of Salzburg – if someone didn't know that – who meant that we don't get international events without airspace surveillance, so we don't get any Olympic games. I would like to stress this, even if you, Mr Pilz, are making fun of it. I would like to thank the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who in March drew attention to the fact that there should be no doubt that we must ensure that we have the safety to control in the airspace as well. That's a fact. It is related to the sovereignty of our country and to the neutrality obligation that we do everything on the ground for security – with police, justice and federal army – but also control the airspace accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Cooperation and prophylaxis, preventive measures are at the forefront of security policy. Each body mentions that we have risks to prevent, to talk to each other and to hold conferences, as is now being done at the EU Presidency in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, I would like to thank you for taking up the issues of foreign law, asylum and migration, which have been discussed for Austria but also for Europe and offered solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that Austria will continue to remain the safest country with the measures of this Federal Government, with the measures of our security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5909	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darabos. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e5930	Madam President. Minister! High house! Only two sentences to my previous speakers. Mr Scheibner, if you say here that social-democratic policy has committed wrongs in foreign policy, I must resist one entirely worthless: Crime increase in Austria over the past six years, under your government activity, as high as never before! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! We talked about immigration policy! Family merger!]] Ausländerzug in Austria in the last six years as high as never before! – That completely valueless speech. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Let's explain the statistics!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Everything's bad!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's all so cruel!]] Mr Pilz, also to you a sentence: Social-democratic security policy, as well as the asylum policy of SPÖ, is based on fundamental rights in Austria, the Austrian Constitution, human rights, the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the interests of the Austrian population. That's what we're standing for! The fact that we have to take criticism of it from the left and the right shows us that our path is the right one. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not even applause for your own speaker! That's poor!]] I would like to turn today to a very special area which has found far too little attention in the previous speeches. This is the issue of asylum policy at European level. Austria still has the EU Presidency until 30. June in. It has now been declared quite full-fledged, which is not all to be done in the security field. For example, the White Paper on our EU Presidency states that we will review the Action Plan on the Hague Programme, we will review cooperation in criminal matters – a rather weak argument for work – and we will review the long-term anti-terrorism strategy in Europe, we will review asylum and migration policies in Europe and we will carry out the Schengen evaluation. So far, nothing has been shown in actual politics. Especially in the asylum field, what was promised was not kept. A single European asylum policy was promised until 2010. That's right. But I do not see any initiative from the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in this direction. There has so far been more a coffee wreath, which has been held in the security area. There is no initiative to solve this very central issue at European level for Austria. [[Abg. Kainz: Don't be careful!]] The Austrian EU Presidency would have had enough opportunities to stimulate and drive this issue forward. But nothing of this has happened! It was also promised by you, Mrs Minister, to speed up asylum procedures in Austria. This was negotiated with us in a so-called foreign package – I do not particularly like this term. Nothing has been done so far! And this is also about the issue of Pact fidelity and the question of handshake quality in the Austrian Federal Government, because we have jointly decided in Austria that we want to install an asylum court as soon as possible. Nothing can be seen from this asylum court so far. In my opinion, there is already a suspicion that you, as well as in the question of migration study, are consciously trying to keep these things at the top of the corner, in order to avoid some misunderstandings that exist in Austria, even in dissatisfaction in the population. Only: The bill won't go on. People now see that your policies do not take effect exactly in the area where, as has been said, there are contracts and agreements and that you have not complied with what you promised. There is no acceleration of procedures; no one knows at the right time whether he can get asylum in Austria or whether he has to leave the country. And that was the reason why we jointly signed the motion for a resolution concerning this asylum court. Mr Kößl, your signature is also covered by this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Kößl: Yes, there’s a hundred percent for me! That’s what I’m all about!]] That nothing has happened by the end of 2005, is your responsibility. Mrs. Partik-Pablé has also signed this – but nothing has happened: There is no asylum court in Austria! I have to tell you the truth: Seems and In your policy, especially in the security field and especially at European level, where we now hold the EU Presidency, there is a very wide gap! [[Abg. Kößl: In contrast to you we are in contact with... EU! And that's working now! Fact! – You have to take an interest in this!]] I would ask you to continue to use the last weeks of this EU Presidency to mark what we have decided to do in this important area of asylum policy. This would be a good sign of a European security policy, and this would also benefit Austria very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6060	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will speak next. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6081	Ladies and gentlemen! The role the SPÖ now plays in the issue of immigration and integration policy is really strange. After all, you have had the SPÖ cut through the reins for more than 20 years so much that you have done nothing for integration, have not accepted any proposals aimed at children learning German before they get to school. You have set no criteria at all for the conditions under which people in Austria are allowed to immigrate – and now you are excited about the consequences of your policy! We now have the heritage of socialist foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the occasion of the Bosnia-Herzegovina crisis, 80 000 Bosnians came to Austria. They have issued about 60,000 establishment permits for these people, without in any way verifying whether there are any conditions for whether we need these people at all. And now we feel the family estate! We have reduced the establishment rate, we have introduced the regulation that only qualified foreigners may come to Austria for which there is a corresponding need. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Yes, sure! That's right!]] You've neglected all of this! And now you're making yourself up and saying that immigration has never been as high as it is now. All these are the consequences of socialist politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] A few more words to honourable Member Pilz: It is not so ridiculous that you monitor the airspace when major events take place, because we all know from experts that terrorist attacks are expected when it comes to major events. And should we in Austria, if we do not have our own interception hunters, bring the aid of the Czechs, Romanians or Hungary? They have interception hunters – only we have none. As I said, you would rather pay hundreds of millions of Czechs, Romanians and Hungary and let us protect ourselves from these countries instead of seeing that we have our own protection. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to turn to the EU topic now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The abstraction of your speech is insurmountable!]] – This is not abstrus at all, just because it does not fit you, Mr Deputies. Mr President, Mr Khol said today that we should put our speeches on a European reference. I really want to take this seriously and deal with the views of President Borrell. It has said in the context of asylum and foreign policy that instead of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior should decide on asylum policy and immigration policy. He also welcomed the legalisation in Spain of 550 000 illegals who arrived in the previous year, i.e. they are recognised. You have to imagine this: 550 000 people come to Spain, illegal – they are probably mainly Africans – and it is said: So, you're all here now suddenly! without checking the conditions. And this has still been considered positive by EU President Borrell, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In principle, I really agree with everyone's own opinion, including Mr Borrell, but: He also called for a common asylum policy for Europe. And the EU Parliament has been involved in asylum policy since 2005, and therefore the President also has a great right to speak. Minister! I really do not want these views by Mr Borrell to influence the design of European asylum rights. I just can't accept that. Mr Borrell continues: It is a question of building fences or helping those affected. – Only, as he can certainly not do this: allow unlimited immigration, legalize illegals and reduce border barriers. I'm also for help. I am really in favour of greater assistance in the countries concerned, much more than now, but: The aid must be provided where the immigrants come from! Aid must be provided in Africa, it must be provided in the former USSR, in the successor countries – there, not through immigration to Austria or through asylum abuse. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Minister! I'd ask you to step in. Mr Borrell goes on to say: This legalization has not created a single problem, but many problems have been solved. – I can only say that Mr Borrell is probably most of the time in Brussels and not in Spain, because I know from many Spaniards that there are very big problems. For example, on the island of Gran Canaria, the mayor says they don't want these immigrants at all, and they all make their way to Madrid. There are huge problems in this city. – So, just as Mr Borrell does, you really can't do that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Europe, we face enormous migration pressures – and on the other hand, we have the population that says: We have enough difficulties with those people who have already emigrated to Austria or have sought asylum here, especially in the big cities. It is therefore necessary to restrict immigration, to restrict the use of asylum and to ensure that our borders are safeguarded. In particular, the EU as a whole must also help the Spaniards who can secure their borders, because we learn from the newspapers almost daily that there is illegal immigration there. Minister! We also support the plan that you and the former German Minister of the Interior Schily have already expressed, namely to create centres in Africa, at the EU's eastern border, to collect those immigrants and to explain to them that it is not possible to come to Europe and here either under the title of "immigrants" or under the title "Asyl". – I believe that this is extremely important, because the further inflow of immigrants or ski-syllants threatens the inner peace of Europe and does not solve the problems in the countries from which people come. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the Muslim debate. Mr Spindelegger meant that the Muslims must respect our rules, and Mr Oellinger asked what rules? – That's what I'm telling you: The rules of equality between men and women, the rules of democracy and the rules of tolerance! That's what we demand – and if you don't, you have to return to your home country!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6184	Next, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6205	Poštovane lady i gospode! Poštovana gospoda presidentka! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé has just told us that we should always bear in mind that tolerance and respect for the rule of law, respect for our democratic values are important to our living together in society. – I don’t know anyone, I don’t know anyone who would just deny that. If I now refer to tolerance and appreciation for minorities, appreciation for people of different skin color, I would like to point out that in the past, especially Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mrs. Partik-Pablé has been noticed by exactly the opposite of what would be described as an appreciation of people with black skin color, for example. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, you just want the Austrians to be tolerant!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You said they looked different!]] It has even spoken here in the House of Lords of flat-rate convictions, discriminations and flat-rate prejudices against people with black skin color. So you should start with tolerance, non-discrimination and respect! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Once you start with the tolerance...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Stoisits, start with your tolerance once!]] I am now devoting myself to two motions for resolutions which the Greens will submit to the National Council on this day of Europe, in connection with the policy of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. The first half of 2006 is not quite a normal half-year in Austria, but it is a bit quite a bit in terms of European issues. Exceptional: It is the half-year of the EU Presidency of Austria. [[Call to the Freeman – BZÖ: We know that anyway!]] That is why, of course, we are also concerned not only with making Austrian internal policies, commenting, criticizing them from an opposition point of view, but also with paying attention to those activities that our government representatives, who are now always Council Presidents in the respective EU Councils. So, too, Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop was chairman in various councils, which had already been held. I have tried to take a sober look at what their initiatives were in these first five months, and I can tell you where there are concrete results: There is already a very concrete result in that visa fees for third-country nationals in the EU have been increased from €35 to €60! “Thank you,” Mrs Minister, I can only say, if, for example, I think of my children’s relatives in Bosnia. If my wife would like to have Barbic visit from her brother, sister or other family from Bosnia, in the future a four-member family must pay in order to visit her in Austria – she is Austrian citizen – four times 60 €, i.e. 240 €. Do you know what 240 € for a family in Travnik, Bosnia? – A real fortune! This to make a simple visit to relatives! – This is a very concrete effect of the “success” – under the lead marks – of the policy of the Federal Minister in this first half of the year as EU chairperson of the Council, which is very concrete for people in our immediate surroundings. I still see Bosnia and the former Yugoslavia as a neighbouring country of Austria, and not only as a neighbouring country, but also about the historical links that Austria had with Bosnia. Especially in connection with this debate, which is now in place, on the question of the integration of Muslims in Austria, this aspect is very important, because in terms of the integration of Muslims in Austria, the Danube monarchy has done more significant than this blue-black or blue-black-orange government in the last five years. [[Abg. Scheibner: They've all been assimilated! That's not true at all! They were all assimilated at the time!]] I must say that to you, Mrs Federal Minister, with all appreciation, in view of things that happen, because: Although you, Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, have not said anything about this today, you have been obliged by several appointed speakers – only in this way I can say this – to express thanks and recognition that you are still insisting on the claim that 45 percent of the Muslims in Austria are intrusive, whereby we are referring to studies that are not yet published and, secondly, to those parts that are published, the authors of this study distance themselves from that of your statement – but not secretly, but also publicly. How can one only spread so stubbornly and so persistently nonsense – but if only it would be nonsense: spreading dangerous nonsense, Mrs. Federal Minister?- Oh, my God! And I am now saying this quite deliberately in a debate on Austrian security policy: How can one hold on to it so much and then tell us that it is really wonderful in Austria, and in the EU, by the way, too; the only danger that this continent and in particular Austria have as a small country is – I am now conscious of it, not because it is to provoke you, but because it can only be summarized so – “the foreigners”, namely, the irregular, illegal immigrants who are streaming on the labour market, the people who are looking for protection from persecution in Austria? It's always those from the outside! No one comes up with the idea that this may also have something to do with the situation in the country itself, with the uncertainty of people as to their future pensions, with regard to their jobs and with what policy now offers to negative spectacles. This also includes the topic of BAWAG, which I agree with, including the crisis of the Trade Union Confederation. This is the uncertainty that exists in this country, and the real threat to people. You should devote yourself to this! I now come to speak to Mr Borrell. – Mrs. Partik-Pablé, this is really a remarkable man! I do not know the speech you have quoted, but I really respect a President of the European Parliament who says that the Social Ministers should deal with refugee policy. This is precisely the approach that the Greens have taken at both European and national level – and I must say now: Borrell's not a greener! – have brought in, namely: Access to integration policy, refugee policy can only be achieved through social policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Otherwise it would be impossible to explain, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Minister is talking about building up protection centres for refugees at the EU's external borders, for example in Ukraine, and under the word 'protection centres' it is not, for example, a means of protecting people from persecution, but that Europe is protecting itself from these people! This is the importance of ‘protection centres’ in this context. Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, I would You really urgently ask to visit such a so-called camp in Ukraine. I personally did not have the opportunity to do so, but I spoke with several, with numerous caritas employees who were there and who worked there. These so-called camps are nothing but prisons! Once, no matter where he comes from, no matter what reason to escape, no matter what fate he has behind him, he comes to such a camp in Ukraine, then he is caught there, and there he remains trapped! And you continue to support it! You want to make these large prisons that call themselves “gathering camps” – some say baffled or somehow euphemistic “protection centers” – a European institution? – This is not my and our understanding of a contribution to dealing with this truly great challenge that has to do with international flight movements – because they exist worldwide, there are also in Europe – and on the other hand, with the challenge of international migration movements. Not with prisons, not with high-tech in Ukraine and also with high-tech at the borders in the south of Europe, but with a policy dedicated to several areas, namely: in those countries from which these irregular migrants come mainly to take action, through which people there have a chance to feed their families, to enable their families to prosper, and in many cases simply to ensure physical survival. This is the reason why people want to sit in small fishing boats and get to Spain via the Mediterranean! 10,000 of them have drowned over the past five years, and we Europeans – I do not exclude myself, I join myself – know that, and we do not do anything about it! Probably drowning right now, where we discuss relatively peacefully here in the high house, again people who fall into the Mediterranean from a small boat: Children, women and men. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That, Mrs Minister, would be really worth being made a priority in the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU – but I am missing this from you so far! That's why I can only say: There is nothing to praise, to thank nothing and to acknowledge nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6356	Next, Mr Hornek. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6377	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Never before have there been so many economic opportunities for such a large number of people. Unfortunately, there are also many opportunities for criminal organizations to exploit this system. Crime does not stop at the borders. The challenges we face today are largely international dangers, dangers which we can only answer and fight together: This applies to organised crime as well as to international terrorism, but cooperation often encounters legal, cultural, linguistic and administrative obstacles. Security is a global issue in many areas today. Most of the threats to the internal security of the European Union today are international issues, which can no longer be met with the old forms of security policy such as military and internal policy. The fight against terrorism is one of the most important issues in this area. Improving the exchange of information and enhanced coordination of existing facilities as well as timely information are crucial to prevent attacks. However, we must also fight against the causes of terrorism, thus removing the ground from it. Austria will work on the further implementation of the Action Plan against Terrorism and focus its activities on the following points: first of all: Improving the exchange of information at a strategic and operational level; second: Measures to protect critical infrastructures; thirdly: Implementation of the strategy against radicalisation and recruitment, in particular through a broad dialogue between cultures and religions; fourth, the continuation of measures against terrorist financing. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has already made significant advances in terms of Europe-wide police cooperation on the defence of terrorism. In May 2005, Germany, the BENELUX countries, France, Spain and Austria agreed on the so-called Prümer contract. As an essential innovation in relation to the already good cooperation, this Treaty provides that these states grant each other certain access rights to DNA and fingerprint files as well as vehicle registers. It should also be mentioned in this context that older DNA data will lead to some old criminal cases being resolved. International criminals use best technologies, so we must also make them available to our security authorities. In Austria there are many of these challenges, ladies and gentlemen, but there are already many bilateral treaties and agreements with states bordering our territory. As the mayor of a border community in the Czech Republic, that is especially dear to my heart. However, there is already excellent cooperation with the security authorities of our neighbouring countries, especially through personal contacts and discussions, in order to make possible the persecution of criminals across state borders. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the Austrian EU Presidency, our President-in-Office, Mrs. Lies Prokop, has focused particularly on bringing the security standards of the European neighbourhood countries and those of the Western Balkans to the EU. A comprehensive package of measures, as well as intensive cooperation, has created rules that link internal security with the European Neighbourhood Policy and form a partnership of security with these countries. How important, ladies and gentlemen, international cooperation with regard to the prevention and investigation of criminal cases is, we are especially aware of an economic criminal case in the United States of America, namely the one that concerns the Refco company, which unfortunately also holds Austrian institutions. There was damage in billions – and so some amount in millions has gone through foundations so to speak. These amounts could be used to set up Zig thousands of single-family houses in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I am a massive advocate of the social partners, and therefore I am all the more irritated that Mr Cap spoke today about a “attack” by the Federal Government to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. – Mr Cap, there has been such an attack, but: All those responsible for this crime, you know, Mr Cap, most personally! It's written to you in the main book! Contact You're talking to these people and you're talking to them directly! Summary: Such an incident shows us how necessary there is international cooperation – and this also shows quite clearly how the path that Mrs Federal Minister Prokop has taken is. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make the following final request:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6487	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6536	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6557	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to comment on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Partik-Pablé. We would like to agree with this, however, on the grounds that the measures that are wanted are based on this study, which Mrs Prokop has presented in part. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's just the reason!]] Since we do not know this study and no willingness was expressed that we were provided with this study, we cannot accept this request. [[Abg. Scheibner: We do not vote on the reason! That's an excuse!]] We from the SPÖ will itself put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter. As Mr Murauer and Mrs Partik-Pablé have presented the Eurofighters as an important security policy instrument, especially with regard to football games, I would like to say the following: I think it is absolutely absurd to say that Eurofighters – possibly even with rockets – are necessary to ensure the safety of football games! [[Abg. Fauland: Are they too!]] [[Abg. Kößl: That you too are of the same opinion!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your mayor's damage...!]] That's really an absurd idea! It doesn't need a man, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: against better knowledge will be here...!]] It is also shocking how the ÖVP, how Federal Minister Prokop and also you from FPÖ-BZÖ have found that the number of crimes in our country remains at such a high level! [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: That's not true!]] In the six years of this federal government, the number of crimes has increased by more than 30 percent, whereas the investigation has fallen by more than 30 percent, which is to be said to be a thin 39 percent! That, ladies and gentlemen, has its cause in making fewer and fewer police officers available, as well as worse and worse material! This is the wrong policy in this area! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, do your job, otherwise you will actually support an insecurity government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: But go!]] [[Abg. School: Do you believe that yourself?]] On the question of asylum seekers: I would like to know what Mrs Prokop, for example, has been discussing with Russian President-in-Office Ivanov. We in Parliament have not heard anything about it; we will not be informed of what is being expressed and debated at European level. The fact is that there are 4 355 asylum applications from Russia. And when we talk about asylum applications, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner – Mrs. Partik-Pablé is not in the hall – should we mention the following: The fact is that from 1995 to 1999, the number of asylum seekers was 53 000, whereas between 2000 and 2004 it was 145 000. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact is that the number of citizenships between 1995 and 1999 was 91 000 and 180 000 between 2000 and 2004. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but when did they come into the country, Mr. Colleague? That must not be true! That's not your serious, is it? These are the people you brought into the country ten years ago! They brought you into the country ten years ago! That must not be true!]] And that shows quite exactly that your argumentation is completely wrong and you really have not got the problem under control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another fact is that there are still 27 000 open cases of asylum seekers, because this minister has not taken into account the request of all four parliamentary parties to set up an asylum court, and therefore the necessary staff has not been provided to ensure that these procedures can be handled quickly and quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore hope that there will be a common European asylum policy earlier than 2010, a common asylum law. [[Abg. Ah, look here!]] So far, you have not contributed to this, except for discussions. [[Abg. Go, Rudi!]] And I hope that Mrs Ministers will soon be ready to call the Committee on the Interior an appointment where we can discuss this question. We are constantly trying to get dates – so far this has not been successful. And I hope that a new government will have more understanding for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6790	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6812	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prokop, what you have reported about the EU Presidency and the events you have made, I believe is clear evidence that the European Union does not have sufficient control of many elements in this essential area of internal security. In the European area, there is a policy deficit at several levels. In addition to all these efforts of the peace union and economic growth, job creation, we have to fight, above all, the negative effects of globalisation, but at last demand a clear stop from enlargement. And the third is to finally ensure the protection of the external borders. Mrs Minister, this is exactly the area that falls into your place and which you should address with your colleagues from the EU Member States in these events that the EU Presidency can still do. Madam Minister, you should ensure these things! And you should also be aware that the European Union has significant deficits in these policy areas and that the European Union is forced to make an effective policy in these areas at last, because it is just here five after twelve. In terms of enlargement, Mrs Minister, it is quite clear that everyone in Europe has seen that the candidate countries Bulgaria and Romania are not yet ready for accession to the European Union – and yet, at European level, in the bodies, in the Commission, there have been debates in Parliament about the fact that these countries are already ready to enter the European Union. The same is true of Turkey. Everyone in Europe knows that Turkey is not a European country – and yet everything is done at European level to start negotiations with that country. The third area is the protection of external borders. Mrs Minister, the whole world sees how desperate people are trying to reach the territory of the European Union by all means – and that the EU is not able to take the necessary steps against these mass immigration. This mass immigration takes place through the Mediterranean, across the Atlantic and presents the European border countries with significant organisational, but also social and security difficulties, difficulties which are insoluble. Mrs Minister, I would expect you to take important steps on these essential points, particularly at the Summit on the Interior, which took place in early June, but also in the European Council, in the context of the Austrian Presidency. It is not a question of making announcements as is essentially the rule at European level, but rather of implementing effective measures to ensure that the European external borders are protected. The fact that difficulties will arise in the context of integration is that we do not need to give in to illusions, Mrs Minister. It is just a matter of time that even in Vienna or in Munich or in any other Central European city there are the same conditions as in Paris, Madrid or London. That is to say, Mrs Federal Minister, these internal security issues must finally be brought to the fore and concrete measures are announced together with your colleagues at European level and the first steps taken. Ms. Minister, you should work to ensure that the EU's external border becomes a key issue of European policy, while recognizing that the EU has major credibility problems with its citizens! And you should make it clear that there must finally be a reasonable procedure in relation to the enlargement steps that have been taken now, ensuring that the European Union, its citizens and also its institutions do not take on board in the next few years. In the last few weeks of the Austrian Presidency, Mrs Bundesminister, you should ensure that a visible effective fight against the negative effects of globalisation is started at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6891	Mrs Prokop, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6912	I would just like to focus very briefly on a few points. On the one hand, it was said that I would have offered no dates or no willingness to inform. – I am ready at any time; of course, the clubs have to arrange these dates. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ah? Very good! We like to hear that!]] I have already offered this in spring to the report by the European Parliament, to the Presidency report and I have said it today. This is a matter of course if you are missing this information. Much of it is published, is readable on the homepage, as well as the study is available on the home page of the Ministry of the Interior since Friday. The CD-ROM is also required since Friday. So the publication has been done to make that clear. On the second point, to claim that the number of citizenships awarded has since increased. – You have to speak the truth, because getting citizenship requires a certain period of stay in the state. The migration of the nineties brought a family succession and thus the award of citizenship to a tree-like extent after the turn of 2000. We have now come to grips with the law, and there are also appropriate regulations. As far as neighbourhood policy is concerned, I must say that nothing has happened in this regard by 1989. After 1989 it was known that there were problems here, but nothing happened. We have been making contracts with our neighbours since 2000 and have gone completely new ways in the area of police cooperation, ways that also work. For the accusation concerning the asylum court. We've taken care of the basics. This has been introduced in the Special Committee on the Austrian Convention. This raises the question of presumption or non-prevention. The experts believe that the court system should be operated uniformly. In order to achieve an acceleration of the procedures, the staff in the UBAS has been increased by one third. However, this has not yet been shown to be effective. Only: The UBAS is an independent asylum Senate whose pace of work we cannot accelerate, but at the first instance the pace has been significantly accelerated. In short, on the issues raised on visas. Ladies and gentlemen, it is completely wrong what you have said here. They have obviously not read the last decisions, because the decisions include a clear derogation for children, for students, for students who don't have to pay at all. We have the possibility to regulate neighbourhood opportunities, and the Commission, in particular those countries that are negotiating with the European Union, will comply with the old fees by 2008. All of this is enshrined in the decisions and therefore also legible and comprehensible. Also on the area of protection in the region. There is no such form. I can't go to Ukraine and look at something like that, because there's no such thing. This is a new form which is being forced by all the parliamentary parties in the European Parliament, by all NGOs, by the UN. This protection in the region as a pilot project is to be started under our aegide. There will be a region in Africa and a region in Eastern Europe. There will be UNHCR and NGOs involved to build this model project. Furthermore, much more has happened – because it means that nothing would have happened on the way to a common asylum policy. Until 2010, the decision is in the Hague Programme. We have taken the first steps. A common statistics is to be drawn up; they are not available to date. There should be a common and transparent information system that informs about the situation in the countries of origin. Support teams for particularly burdened regions such as the Mediterranean have already been set up and functioned. And there are, as I said, the pilot projects. I believe that at this time, this short half-year, we have carried on with a lot of negotiations, including with the European Parliament, with which we are constantly negotiating. We have also joined the next presidency, especially because of continuity, and I hope that we will come to a common system.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6958	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e6979	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I bring first those of my green Mr Térezija Stoisits has already discussed the motions for resolutions and ask the President to have them distributed because they are very extensive. One concerns the refugee tragedy off the coasts of the EU, which Mr Stoisits has already explained. The second concerns the Dublin II Regulation of the European Union, which establishes the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application. I would like to make a few comments on this. There has been an extensive evaluation of the Dublin II Regulation by the UNHCR, namely, on 20 June. ==References== There were serious shortcomings in the practical implementation of this European Regulation. Our request refers to the fact that at the next Council meeting, the Minister of the Interior should bring this UNHCR evaluation to the attention of the Austrian debate. That on the two Green motions for resolutions. Now on some other areas of the European Security Partnership; first of all, Mr Spindelegger, who at the very beginning of the debate has said a sentence that has been remembered to me and which I do not wish to leave behind. Mr Spindelegger, you have meant that Europe cannot become a continent where everyone can wander around. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: That's it!]] – What exactly do you imagine? Do we want to lock everything up for tourists now? Do we perhaps want to build a wall around the continent, so that only the people who may face you can travel this continent? That can't be it, Mr Spindelegger. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Prehauser.]] I would like to hear what you say about human rights activists in countries such as Thailand, Kenya or the Dominican Republic, as loud European sex tourists wander around and endanger the safety of our women and girls. Would you tell them they're right? [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: We can have a dialogue on this, we can do that!]] Or how do you see this in this context when you talk about people from other countries wandering around? Not that I would support the sex tourists, but if you talk about people from other countries like this, that's already evidenced by a certain spirit that I don't really want in this house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: There is a small difference in quality, Mrs. Colleague!]] In this debate, I have the impression that one would like to say, on the part of the government groups, that: We are now building a wall, perhaps not just around Austria, but best around the EU, around Europe – and then the world is all right, then we need nothing more to worry about. I would like to draw your attention to one point: To believe that security for Europe will be safeguarded in Europe alone and that it may be possible to use walls and very strict controls at borders, and then nothing happens, then we all live here in security and are satisfied, and everything is wonderful, that is probably an illusion: in times of globalisation it is only right! It would be absurd to want to think, especially in times of globalisation, to build a fortress Europe – and then everything is safe. There is a dissuasive example, including for all those who always find it, one needs a lot more economic relations, much more free trade and so on. Take the example USA – Mexico. In the The United States of America is now rebelling the migrants, especially from Mexico and other Latin American countries, saying that they want to have rights at last and not only bring cheap services to US citizens. At the same time, the Bush government says that we are building a wall on the Mexican border, not only the mackerel in California, which has already existed, but the entire border! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: But we are talking about Europe! There's no wall there! You're on the wrong continent!]] Do you know what happened in advance? – The Free Trade Agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, NAFTA, has led to the destruction, for example, of up to 800 000 jobs in small farmers in Mexico by importing maize from the United States, partly genetically modified and highly subsidized! And then there is someone else who is trying to migrate to the land that's spoiling their jobs?- Oh, my God! That is an absolute sham policy, to say, now we are building a wall, but economic policy is continuing as before. - That can't go well! You don't need to wonder that the migration pressure is rising! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Mrs. Partik-Pablé believes that aid must be given to Africa and to the states of the former Soviet Union, then I can only say to you: Help alone is definitely too little! It is a matter of ensuring that justice – even though this word may no longer apply in the economy today – exists in economic relations, that European social and environmental standards are respected, that profits are also invested in these countries, and not all that flow, so that people there also have the opportunity to survive. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] Help alone is not: Economic relations must be made fairer!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7089	I announce that Members' motions for resolutions, which have just been put forward in their key points, are Magnified. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues have been presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. They are therefore negotiating. On the basis of the extent of these applications, I leave them in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed and shall be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7238	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, Mr Gusenbauer is not there, otherwise we could clarify him, but perhaps he can tell Mr Cap: [[Abg. Steibl: How often!]] There have been seasonal kidneys in Austria since 1993. Seasonal eggs have therefore been introduced because there has been too little Austrian labour for harvest workers and seasonal farms in tourism. Last year we lowered the number of seasonal kidneys in the field of harvest workers and also in the tourism sector. Mr. Gusenbauer is confusing something because: People only want to work temporarily here and then return to their homeland and not integrate with us. Maybe you can do that to him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the willingness of individuals and organisations, but also of countries, has increased in recent years. In order to meet these challenges that do not stop at the borders, international security partnerships are an effective instrument. The common foreign and security policy of the European Union is the basis for our being able to feel secure in Europe. In the same vein, however, the areas of external border control, asylum, immigration, immigration, visa policy, racism, xenophobia and the prevention and fight against organised crime are also to be mentioned in the field of internal European security. In order to cope with these areas, there must be cooperation beyond the European borders. Only in this way can appropriate answers be given to the issues of asylum and immigration policy or the fight against crime. Therefore, the steps initiated by Federal Minister Prokop towards close cooperation with the states in the East and South-East of Europe are important and forward-looking to find solutions in the countries of origin and transit in the area of asylum and migration. The Austrian Presidency has also undertaken to push forward the Action Plan for the implementation of the Hague Programme, with its main points of combating terrorism, controlling migration flows, fundamental rights, Union citizenship, internal borders, external borders and visas, as well as integration and, in particular, data protection. Austria has a pioneering role to play in the core issue of a common European asylum regime by 2010. – Mr Darabos may not have heard that at all. The foreign rights package adopted last year, which meets all the criteria of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Geneva Convention on Refugees, is largely a model for a common asylum policy. At this point, it is also to be clarified that asylum abuse must at least be prevented. For those who need asylum, the procedures have been substantially simplified and streamlined so that they can be granted asylum quickly. The latest statistics on asylum confirm the 26% reduction in the number of asylum applications compared to the previous year. Surely our foreign law policy is on the right path: Already in the run-up, international towing bands are deterred, but also those who want to come to us without a reason for asylum. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Last Monday, I visited the independent Bundesasylsenat with three colleagues to inform me about the state of reform, the introduction of new additional employees and the establishment of an external office in Linz. I can tell you that there is a lot of commitment and determination. For the first time in the first quarter of 2006, the output is equal to the input. In other words, the number of processes processed and completed is the same as the number of cases received. This value is all the more important than in the first quarter the additional employees had to be recruited, trained and, of course, introduced. Similarly, the construction of an external office in Linz was carried out; the structural adaptation work will be completed in the near future. At the same time, the modernisation of the entire computer area for improved analytical possibilities and rationalisation of processes is under way. I thank the management and also the UBAS staff for their very excellent work – and I thank you very much to you, Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, for your decision has made the resources available for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the current debate on integration, something that is not just an Austrian problem, but a European problem, indeed an international one. What does integration mean? – Integration certainly does not mean giving up its culture, language, religion and tradition, but it means very well dealing with just these points in the new home country – but this also requires the corresponding embodiment here born. The current study on the integration of Muslim citizens is nothing but an inventory to find answers to integration problems on the part of the Ministry. We stand for a respectful relationship between cultures and religions. And I warn at this point of sharpness, but also of softeners in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Prokop, who has done an excellent job in her previous one and a half years and who also represents Austria at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7320	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7342	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Ellmauer said earlier that as many cases at the Senate... – If many cases are handled as well as done, this means that many cases that exist there are not dealt with to the extent that this would be desirable, so that this “reck bag” will not be dismantled – and that, although that was promised! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He said that they are just being trained!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: So you're not ready to start, Mrs. Colleague!]] On the issue of integration, a subject that is very busy with people, and I therefore believe that this must also be dealt with seriously and that much more needs to be done in this regard. What we reject, however, is that this issue is now being made a topic of election, that studies, which, according to the opinion of the Austrian Society of Sociology, are methodologically and technically very questionable, must be commented on by Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop in advance and thus have the very impression that already existing fears and fears should be appalled. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is something new that SPÖ has nothing to do with the election topic! You're making a permanent election campaign! It's all a clear story!]] And that's what we certainly don't want from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Steibl: This is something new! The SPÖ is a constant shock! That's not responsible!]] It must not and should not be agitated, but it is a matter of solving problems. That is precisely what this Federal Government does not do. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we expect from integration? – Of course, integration is something that needs to be done by both sides: There must be the will to integrate those people who want to live here, but there must also be support and willingness from the state and government. And that's the problem we just have in Austria. There are certainly migrants – you should not deny that – who are not really integrative. 45 percent are not, that is, I think, clearly established now. It is about migrants accepting our central values, such as democracy, human rights, equal opportunities for women, non-violent conflict resolution culture and the like. Of course, we demand this not only from immigrants, but also from the entire population. On the other hand, this shows that we are rightly criticizing the Federal Government. The topic of language learning: Of course, people should learn the language of the country in which they live; this is a prerequisite for integration; but there are more than 1,000 accompanying teachers missing. Accompanying teachers are important not only for migrant children, but also for the Austrian children who sit with them in a class. When we hear from the OECD and from the EU Commission that the level of education is falling, especially among the young Turks, we see that there is a need for action. And especially with the girls, it would be very important for something to happen. Unfortunately, this is not heard by the Minister of Education and the Minister for Women. We therefore demand a State Secretariat in the Federal Chancellery in this context, because security can only be a small aspect in the area of integration. What is necessary is to see this as a social question. We need an appropriate education, health and labour market policy. It would therefore be important to finally take steps by the Federal Government. – Vienna does so, but there is unfortunately nothing to be expected from the Federal Government. We can only hope for the time after the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7439	I call Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7460	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger has already referred to it in his contribution, namely the implementation of the Hague Programme. Part of the Hague Programme is the Drug Action Plan of the year 2005 to 2008. ==References== There was an EU Drug Coordinator meeting in Innsbruck in 2006, and many people once again became aware of the current situation with regard to drug problems in the European Union. Drugs not only endanger the safety and health of our children, but also the health and safety of more than 2 million drug users – and This is the only thing in the area of the European Union. As sad as it is: The age of these drug users is getting lower! In this context, I would like to focus very briefly on the situation in Austria, because in recent days there have been some really shocking press reports: The youngest drug consumer was only ten years old! There were also the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of the 20th century. May 2006 an interview with Wolfgang Grüll, the head of the contact point for addiction questions. Drug tests were carried out at Salzburg schools. Result: The youngest drug consumer, who was not, of course, mentioned by name, was only ten years old. – The conclusion of the teacher: Young people take drugs. Drinking and drugs have also been consumed earlier, but the age in which it is now lost is 13, 14 or 15. 14-year-old Upper Steirer researched as a suspected drug dealer. An only 14-year-old Upper Steirer could be researched these days – that was in February of this year – as a suspected drug dealer. He sold cannabis products, marijuana and hashish. – 16-year-old Wiener is a suspected drug dealer. Dealers also supplied children: The customers of Isabella M. were almost exclusively children and adolescents aged 14 and below. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] All of this shows that this problem is both an Austrian and a European problem, and it follows that – and I would like to point out that clearly in order to take this quote once again – we are opposed to any legalisation of soft drugs in Austria. It is unfortunate that there are parties in this House who do not want to make this shoulder closure, but I think that, on the basis of experience in the European Union and also in Austria, it should be clear to everyone that the introduction of soft drugs begins, ends with hard drugs – and can lead to the risk of their own health. Finally, a brief speech on Mr Pilz's speech, which, as we are all used to, is not in the hall, namely on the topic of nuclear power plants. Mr Pilz has presented the perfect contradiction in itself today. On the one hand, he said that we in Austria do not need to monitor the airspace at all, but on the other hand he has noted that so many nuclear power plants are located in the border area around Austria, which are supplied with a very high risk potential due to terrorist attacks. Of course, these attacks could be carried out mainly from the air. What an invitation it would be for terrorists to be able to cross an unattended Austrian airspace in a deep flight and then in a flight time of one to two minutes – this time they will still need after the border – Europe could really lead to such a disaster! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7528	Mrs Pfeiffer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7549	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin my remarks, I can put forward the motion for a resolution mentioned by Mr Parnigoni. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about security. I would like to mention one thing: We were involved in the negotiations on the asylum law, we voted in favour, many things have been promised but not yet implemented. But you have now mentioned in your second speech, Mrs Federal Minister, that the asylum court will be installed, that asylum procedures will be accelerated and that staff will be increased. This is what I wanted to say, I want to give you faith, but at least we will observe everything closely. Since I still have a little time left, I should like to thank all the police officers on behalf of my group for your commitment to security for our people. [[Abg. Neudeck: But with us too!]] I would like to thank them very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7600	I call Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7621	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prokop, in addition to international cooperation in Europe, we are also concerned with a common foreign and security policy and, of course, a common security and defence policy, where the objective of freedom, security and stability in Europe is to be fully ensured. We must not lose sight of that. I see Europe as a power of peace – and not a fortress. The development of civil and military capabilities must therefore take place in this direction. These are increasingly in the area of solidarity, humanitarian measures, disaster aid, peacekeeping, civil crisis management and, of course, the European security architecture, which goes far beyond the military sphere. That is why we are also in favour of the further development and expansion of police cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and all its negative side effects. That is why it is also necessary for the European Parliament to be given more rights. More rights include more duties, Mrs. Federal Minister! More obligations also mean that there must be a strengthening of parliamentary control. We therefore also demand more parliamentary control! However, this federal government is wallowing – today a very prominent example has already been mentioned: the Eurofighter procurement, the Eurofighter Treaty. All the demands for EADS have been converted into target criteria for the benefit of EADS. The document has been published in the Official Journal of the as amended by this Regulation. Everything is crying out for clarification – but Parliament must not examine it, Mrs Federal Minister – because the Federal Government is blocking it! Parliament must examine! The Federal Chancellor has denied the Republic, disregards Parliament's control rights. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We demand an disclosure of the purchase contract! We have to check the commercial part. This must be ensured, ladies and gentlemen. The cards have to be on the table! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] There must be sufficient parliamentary control!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7691	The motion for a resolution, read by Mrs Pfeffer, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7747	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Spindelegger, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues and colleagues on further measures to promote integration in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 184.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on refugee tragedy off the coasts of the EU. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues concerning the EU Dublin II Regulation, which lays down the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues on the presentation of the study entitled “Perspectives and Challenges in the Integration of Muslim Citizens in Austria” to the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – It is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:38:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00152_d8e7834	I am still announcing the introduction of motion 833/A at today's meeting of the self-employed. Question No 4298/J to 4301/J has also been received. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 1.40 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
