ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2738	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The official protocols of the 2nd and 3rds. Meeting of 17 March 1990 In November 2006, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Faul and Dr. Grünewald are reported as prevented. [[09:03:32]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2772	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “The Federal Government’s refusal of control – measures for a new relationship between Parliament and the Federal Government” First of all, Mr. Klubobmann has spoken to Dr. Cap. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2799	Madam President. High house! Why did we choose this title for the current hour? – This is quite easy to explain: The last legislative period was marked by the Federal Government's refusal to control, and therefore the current hour is a convenient moment to be able to talk in detail about why citizens want Parliament to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it. One of the most important tasks of this Parliament is to ensure democratic control that it can ensure cleanliness in the Republic and transparency. For this purpose, this Parliament has institutions, and every Member is obliged to devote himself to this ethos in his work. However, during the last legislative period, we have had to note that, particularly in the context of the work of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, but also of the Court of Auditors itself, there has always been an attempt by the government parties to avoid the control of Parliament and Members. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, go, go!]] There has been an attempt to prevent charges, or a charge has been rejected with the majority of the government parties here. Karl-Heinz Grasser is a prominent person. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ah, that's the goal!]] You tried x-times to load it, but it was simply protected with government majority. Now there is – thank God! – a committee of inquiry in which it must appear. This is the difference between the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry and that of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, and that is one of the reasons why these two committees of inquiry are: In order to bring light into the dark of Eurofighter procurement, and the other investigation committee, there is protection for savers and investors to ensure that financial market supervision, banking supervision, works better in the end-effect. [[Abg. Hornek: BAWAG!]] We tried to discuss this in the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, but you, the government parties, were not cooperative. There is now a committee of inquiry on this matter. I believe, in the interests of the savers, in the interests of the Austrians, that there are now these two committees of inquiry who have to do their work and who will continue to do their work unimpeded, because they are exclusively committed to the task of testing and finding truth – and nothing else and nobody else! This must be noted in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to imagine: In the case of one of these two committees, legal advice will then be given, so that financial market supervision will have the opportunity to act very restrictively here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Gusenbauer wanted it!]] Here too the Austrians are insured: In particular, this Committee of Inquiry will be very sensitive to its work, because we are concerned that even in the future the savers, the investors, can sleep quietly, that they can be sure that the supervision of the banks works. [[Abg. Hornek: At BAWAG you slept!]] This Committee of Inquiry will create the necessary conditions and foundations for this to continue in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But our issue here is now the Federal Government's refusal to control. I could list this to you on the basis of countless examples. Only the fact that one has to make an application 11 times until there is finally an investigation committee on the procurement process of the Eurofighters, and only at the twelfth time there is the majority for it, is already a sign of how little there was the willingness to bring light into the dark of the Eurofighter procurement. I have had a whole list drawn up here, and I have just drawn up the issue of what has been the fight for the meeting dates for the examination of the Court of Auditors' reports. The only reason for the fight is to invite people in this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, which could help to clarify the facts: The answer of those invited, including members of the government, was: Taste, I'm not coming! - You need a committee of inquiry, because that's where the person concerned has to come. There he is under the obligation of truth and has to provide correct information. – This is only so that the audiences on TV screens, the Austrians and Austrians see how important this control work is and how often it is difficult by the government parties. And now the conclusion: If we really are to form a government with the EIA and if we are then in the government, the working conditions for the opposition parties must be improved to strengthen Parliament, but also to strengthen the opposition parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is what we stand for, and that is what we will do. This starts with information and information. [[Abg. Scheibner: And at the load of witnesses!]] papers must be known to the opposition parties in good time so that they have the opportunity, if the two government parties wish to implement projects, to prepare for them and to be critical of them. A new approach to this Parliament must also be used by the government. That's what we're going to do! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “A new way of dealing! ”]] I understand that this is difficult for you. You need to change a little now. Those who were in the government and are now in opposition need to change a little, because now it's over. Now you have to see for yourself that you can carry out your control activity. You certainly want to give meaning and content to your activity here – and this is best done by our being much more involved in the opinion-forming process. If there are good ideas here, including the opposition parties, these good ideas are to be taken into account in government work, in parliamentary work. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] Why are you laughing at your own good ideas now? – I hope you have any, don't you? I now assume very optimistic that they will really come from you. So suppose they're really coming: Then they should also be taken into account accordingly. So that you do not have to call for the creation of an investigation committee on Eurofighter in the future – as we do – 11 times in the future, but it is sufficient for you to make the appropriate request, that is to be a minority right. That means: From a certain number of Members, whose number we must vote in order to make this possible, you should have the opportunity to use a committee of inquiry here as a minority right. You'll have it better than we do! We have had to make this request 11 times unsuccessful. In the future, if you make a request to set up an investigation committee, you can simply request it as a minority law. As you can already request special audits for the Court of Auditors if something needs to be examined somewhere in the Republic where the Court of Auditors is responsible. This minority right is already in place, and I assume you will benefit from it in the future. But that alone is too little. There should also be this minority right that an investigation committee can be set up here. We are making up-to-date parliamentary parties, an up-to-date opposition, an up-to-date Parliament and a new balance between Parliament and government groups. This is what I am saying today as a representative of a possible future government group. It would still be important to set up a working group on this reform of the Rules of Procedure. One point of such a reform is the fundamental opening of committee meetings for the public. It is intended to make the work in the committees transparent. There, too, the public must be informed so that the citizens are even more informed so that they know what Members are working except here in the plenary room: those who are watching, those who make calls, those who are not watching, and those who are not there at all; it would be more beautiful if they were all there. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Where's the cast farmer?]] There is also a need for transparency in the committees. [[Further calls at ÖVP:Where is Gusenbauer?- Oh, my God!]] – Why are you so nervous when I say there should be transparency? Citizens should have the opportunity to follow committee meetings as well. Other aspects of such reform are facilitating the introduction of citizens’ initiatives – for young people, for electronic citizens’ initiatives. It must be possible for popular desire, Court of Auditors reports, to remain valid even after the end of the legislative period. We have a complete list here to improve democratic culture in Parliament, in the interests of the Austrians, but also in the interest of all here – including those who may also be in a government group in the future, because “Hands fold, goschen!” will not be able to remain the slogan. We want everyone here to be able to fully fulfil their task and to get involved in this democratic process. This is what the Social Democrats and Social Democrats stand for. For this there should be this working group, and I would like to ask for the cooperation of all the parliamentary groups. - I think that's the right way. This is also a way to counter political starkness and higher electoral participation, and we will be committed to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2988	On a preliminary opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke, while the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3009	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Klubobmann Cap, why are you actually criticizing your party president? They've all been suing everyone who's not here. If that's so important, why isn't Dr. Gusenbauer there? . I also believe that the word ‘control refusal’ is not sufficient. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Of course, Parliament has many important tasks: to make a public discourse, to exercise the control of the administration, but also to decide on important laws. I believe that the most important things are coming first, namely the legislative decisions which bring a salary increase of 2.35% to public service officials for next year, and a pension increase that ensures that pensions in Austria are valued, which is very important and therefore possible, because three years ago we made a pension scheme that other countries have not yet made. Therefore, we can secure the purchasing power of pensions across generations, sustainable and financially. – I have heard that will be the case again in England from 2012 onwards, in Germany from 2010. Happy Austria, you've got it better! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] But now, on the question of refusal of control, just a few figures. – In recent years, since 2000, the Federal Government has answered more than 10,000 requests – oral, written, urgent. There have been over 50 Court of Auditors reports, which have been discussed very intensively and very thoroughly in dozens of meetings of the committee of the responsible committee with the charge of witnesses. By the way, as far as the Committee of Inquiry is concerned, Mr Cap: Since Monday, practically nonstop has been done. The Minister of Finance has been the first to answer Members' questions for hours. Of course! The management of financial market supervision has stated that it is, of course, available under the laws on cooperation with the investigative committee. Tens of thousands of files have already been transferred, and that's okay. I'm just telling you one thing. also very clearly: Do not talk about refusal of control, but also point out that Parliament must also act within the framework of the laws, within the framework of legality! And that's where it starts. We have had concerns – and I am able to argue at any time – that, especially in the Banking Committee and in the Economic Committee, in the formulation of the subject-matter of the investigation, the target was far above the target. According to the Constitution and according to the Rules of Procedure, the National Council is empowered to control the administration of the federal government – not the countries, not the municipalities and not the private. Let us beware that, for example, the National Council questions or controls private acts, private transactions, private accounts connections, because then we are very quick to violate data protection, in breach of Austrian banking secrecy. And that must not be so, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The banking secret is of course a very sensitive asset. I looked at it myself again. § 38 of the Banking Act states: ‘Credit institutions,..., employees... shall not disclose and exploit secrets which have been entrusted or made accessible to them solely on the basis of business links with customers.... ... Getting bodies of authorities and the Austrian National Bank... Aware of facts that are subject to bank secrecy, they shall keep the banking secret...’. There are some defined exceptions to dishes. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is even secured by a two-thirds majority constitution. As Federal Chancellor, I have fought internationally for many years, because there have been many attempts to break up the Austrian banking secret. But we are fighting for this Austrian financial centre, we are fighting for the savers, for investors, for customer relations! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I therefore urge that these boundaries be respected and respected. The same applies, of course, to relations established by Austrian companies, especially in Central and Eastern Europe. Of course you can discuss everything, you should do it in a democratic public. However, research authorities, research institutions of the National Council cannot interfere exclusively in private transactions of Austrian companies. Then: Where would that end? I say quite frankly to you that a number of international competitors are only waiting for us to question and scandalise these things. Competition does not sleep, and internationally there is an entire caravan of people who, of course, want to do the same as we do in Central and Eastern Europe. That is why I am also saying that a number of recent discussions have taken place in these countries: Let's keep from opening the invading door! That is why I have also agreed with SPÖ chairwoman Gusenbauer to put it out of dispute that we are getting opinions on this issue. It is the Constitutional Service of the Federal Government which, as you know, does not have a formal law-free authority, but de facto has a very special status within the Federal Chancellery. No German chancellor – even me – would dare or even try to give his personal legal opinion to the Constitutional Service. On the contrary, this authority is acting entirely on the basis of its own considerations, its own similarities, and it is probably the best authoritative approach. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States It is always available to the National Council's MPs, which you have often made use of. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] Therefore, let us be very careful that we take a legal opinion that has not been prompted by me, which may not fit in with you in this case, as an opinion of convenience! This is not all right, Mr Cap, and I know that many Members also think similarly in their own group and in other groups. I think we need to learn that, for example, the question of how far the mission, the legitimate audit mandate of an investigation committee, is going to be carried out in the discourse. Of course, as with every legal question, there are different opinions, I know. The professors then act and have their particular opinion. Only, of course, you have to ask exactly: Where's that going? The FMA, the supervision of the financial market, has been released by unanimous decision – free of discretion! – is not subject to the Ministry of Finance’s instructions. If we believe that, for example, the administration of the federal government should be treated in the same way as in the field of instructions, I ask: Where does that end? Can the Minister for Justice, for example, be dealt with equally when it comes to independent courts? – Certainly not, everyone would agree. Now you can say: One is jurisdiction, the other is administration. - Good. Only: Is that true – and I am still asking – in the direction of Independent Financial Penalty? This is one of the administrative institutions, but it does not act independently. Is that true of the asylum Senate? These are questions which must, of course, be discussed with the Members of Parliament, not now subject to political popularity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So far, there is no really convincing argument that I have heard or read somewhere that confirms the thesis of the unlimited parliamentary control of the non-wisdom administration. If you look at the textbook that probably has thousands of jus students to learn each year – by the way, this is written by Professor Öhlinger – you will find the following statement for parliamentary control: “Consistency of control is the management of the Federal Government and beyond, the execution... of the federal government in so far as it is subject to the influence, in particular the authority of the Federal Government and its individual members.” This is not written by me, but by Professor Öhlinger as a textbook, but on television he said something quite different. I therefore say quite frankly, ladies and gentlemen, that a refusal to control the Federal Government cannot be the case. But there is indeed an area that I believe should be properly debated, but always under the title that we have to protect banking secrecy and that you, as elected Members, as well as I, as Chancellor and elected MP, have the interest of the country, the saver, the investors, the customer relationships to protect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ÖGB President Hundstorfer, who is certainly not suspicious of making the Federal Government the wall daily, will be in the “press hour” on Sunday. the question: Do you stick to the position that this Banking Committee is not useful for the BAWAG or for Austria's economic location? literally stated: “At my position” – Hundstorfer, ÖGB – “nothing has changed. I can only appeal to them to “really end as soon as possible. ... I can only appeal as the current representative of the owner of BAWAG: At this stage of the sale process, this is not good at all.” The background is that the international financial world is responding to such a committee very, very strong. A lot is being questioned. Credit rates are being questioned, and you need a sensitive approach. Nothing else we want: Yes to control, but sensitive in the interest of the economic location and the financial centre Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3195	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Next, Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3219	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! How necessary this present hour is, one can see from the remarks made by German chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselhier. The Federal Chancellor pointed out that there is, of course, a border on Parliament's control right – no question. But it was interesting who he wanted to put out of control: financial market supervision! [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, poor Austria!]] And he compares them to independent dishes. But this is nothing but the authority that has created this Parliament, which, like the police on the financial markets, has to pay attention to the fact that the assets of the savers are not affected. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Free of guidance!]] If such cases of financial service providers, starting with AMIS over BAWAG, Hypo and as they are all called, then this Parliament will be able to examine this type of inadequate control. To claim that they are outside the law is, we say, a strong piece. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I will come to the opinion, Mr Bundeskanzler. It was interesting, as it was between Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Gusenbauer: We shall send an opinion to the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. What's going on? – A few days later, when it was about the file template to the order practice of the state commissioners... – You may need to explain to the spectators what that is: There is an accompanying check where the most skilled people are sent to each larger bank and there be careful that they are handled in order – a highly responsible position. We have heard that interns are sent there after two weeks of activity in the Ministry of Finance, secretaries and everything else. Even in the file template, how these people are selected, the FMA says: We cannot present it because there is an opinion of the Constitutional Service. When we had them here, the board members tell us: We would like to present it, but we have a legal problem, because there is an opinion. We're a little surprised at that, why there's been, but it wasn't until 16th. It was discussed in November 2006. ==References====External links== ==References== What is still interesting... – No, you gave it to us, Mr Mag. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Wrong!]] Molterer, and therefore you have the general problem – by the way, it is the same subject and is not a short information before – it comes from 14. November 2006, drawn by Georg Lienbacher. [[The speaker shows the opinion.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] But do you know what the difference is, Mr. Magister? I'll talk to you soon. The federal constitution is still being quoted there, right at the beginning. Article 53 states: ‘The courts and all other authorities shall be obliged to comply with the request for evidence from these committees; all public authorities shall submit their files upon request.’ No restriction, no! And in the order practice of the state commissioners: No, we can't let that go! Do you know that, after the President has received the opinion, he has, of course, also appointed the legislative service of our House, Parliament, in fulfillment of the agreement? Of course, he immediately said: Of course, these 18 points can and should be examined. But something else interesting has been done by the legislative service. He has a reply to the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellery of the 10th century. June 1980, and this is very interesting. There, the former leader – by the way, Dr. Adamovich, the later President of the Constitutional Court of Justice – writes that no refusal of the documents under the title “official silence” is possible. At the time, it was really the case that the Constitutional Service, in the interests of Parliament, also delivered its opinions. This Parliament and its predecessors were in the 19th century. In the 19th century, the rights of participation and the enactment of laws and the control of enforcement were fought. For this purpose, there are the instruments of the Court of Auditors, investigation committees, urgent questions and other written questions and here the Question Time in Parliament. These are original fundamental rights of the people's representation. We will not tolerate a restriction, and I hope that They all won't tolerate these together, even if the chancellor doesn't want it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3306	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3338	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for today's current hour because it offers an opportunity to counter conspiracy theories that have been developed in recent days and partly even today by colleagues Cap and Matznetter in connection with the Banking Investigation Committee. Conspiracy theory one: There is something to be concealed or hidden in the banking sector, in the Ministry of Finance, in the area of finance. – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! There's nothing to cover up! There's nothing to hide! It's supposed to be cleared up! All weaknesses are to be removed. But one thing, too. All of this has to be kept within the framework of the Constitution! The small saver, the small investor, the small bank customer, the small borrower must be able to rely on the bank secrecy to ensure that the privacy is safeguarded that business and business secrets are protected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I can say here in this House without now mentioning name: I'm a little disturbed by the arrogance of some Members who say: Please, I am a Member, I am the Parliament, we are making the laws, we are allowed to do everything. Ladies and gentlemen, forget about You don't: We are all grateful to the Constitution. And we all took the oath to the Constitution. I am very glad that President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has just meant that the Court of Auditors, as Parliament's audit and control body, of course has more control rights than any committee of inquiry. This should give you a little thought, especially those who say that we can do everything, because we are Members. It's not that simple! – So don't cover up, clear everything up, remove weaknesses as far as they're available. There are other reasons why we have rejected this Committee of Inquiry by the Austrian People's Party. The first reason is, please, that this Committee of Inquiry – that is, all national and foreign comments – is a damage to the economic location, a damage to the Austrian financial centre. The comments are from Georg Wailand, the most prestigious economic journalist of the “Kronen Zeitung”, I quote: “They don’t know what they’re doing” – those factions that have brought it in – until the “New Zurich Newspaper”: “Austrian banks as the ball of politics”. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore cooperating in this Committee of Inquiry, although we have rejected it so that the banks, the banking secret, data protection do not become the ball of policy! It must be privacy protected, it must be protected from those who unscrupulously do something here that they would not have to do at all, who do not know what they are doing with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have rejected this committee for a second reason – this is now seen in the fullness of opinions; we already have four opinions: Financial Procuratorship, Constitutional Service, Professor Arnold and so on –: There are the most delicate and sensitive legal questions: Data protection, official secrecy, confidentiality, banking secrecy and so on. Let's take the bank secret because my colleague is looking at me right now. We all agreed in the committee that banking secrecy should be kept. However, when it came to deciding on a specific request only on this issue, the chairman of the committee, Dr Graf, twice with Rules of Procedure, prevented the request from being put to the vote at all. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] That's what you're supposed to say. Confessions are one, a proper request is the other, Dr. Graf! You, Dr. Graf, were also the ones who on Sunday – on Monday we had an investigation committee – explained on all media that there would be a huge excuse on Monday, because the Minister of Finance did not submit any files. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Conspiracy theory number two: The Minister of Finance does not submit anything, the supervision of the financial market does not make any statement. – In reality: exactly the opposite! As far as financial market supervision is concerned, Dr. Graf – you have done it with better knowledge – were the two managing directors with us and said: Any cooperation with Parliament! As the chairman of the Financial Committee, I can say that we have constant cooperation with the Boards of Financial Market Supervision. We can ask anything. They come to Parliament twice a year to the Financial Committee. That's where we can ask all the questions. Minister of Finance Grasser has immediately declared that he is naturally willing to say everything, unless the banking secret is touched. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] So your conspiracy theories, Mr. Dr. Graf, collapse. They are denied by reality and taught to a better person. We have every interest in being clarified here. We stand by the control and surveillance rights that our Parliament has. Our club director, Dr. Zögernitz, gave me a list yesterday – I don't want to read it, that would claim all my speaking time – a list of about 30 control and minority rights of this House. We're for it to be that way. There are individual Members' control rights, there are five Members' minority rights, there are 20 Members' minority rights, a quarter of Members' rights, a third. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] I do not know a Parliament in Western Europe, which has as many control and surveillance rights as this Parliament. We stand by it, ladies and gentlemen! However, all this must be done within the framework of the Constitution, all this must be taken into account in privacy, all this must guarantee that data protection, official secrecy, banking secrecy is protected.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3429	Next came the third President, Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3451	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Two general comments on the control activity of the Austrian Parliament, including in an international context. In other words, what the Austrian Members have to say about control resources, control rights and control possibilities is more likely to be in place in the last third of the international comparison. We therefore also have a need to catch up, so that we can certainly be in line with other countries, especially as regards resources for control. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the past legislative period – which Klubobmann Cap has rightly carried out – it was partly very, very difficult; Control was unpopular. However, this was not limited to the previous legislative period, but control was always unpopular in the Austrian Parliament, and that also concerns SPÖ when it was still in government responsibility at the time. I'm glad to see a luter coming in here. However, consensus, which is necessary to really expand the rights, is still not present in this House today, and that is a pity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Setting up control rights as minority rights is, as I believe, the most important thing on the agenda, but it goes far beyond that. The authorities in this House have very little opportunity to bring in and draw up laws themselves, because they simply do not have the necessary support here and the resources are not available for this. This automation, which, I think, many people are nervous, namely, automaticism, that the government is standing down and saying, everything we are doing is good, and on the other hand, the opposition says it's all bad, with little mutual recognition being done, you can also counteract it by strengthening this house. It is quite an important possibility or an important necessity in this context to set up such a legislative service in this House in order to abolish this automation that everything that comes from the opposition cannot be a good idea. I believe that this is also something that makes parliamentary debates so unattractive in the medium term, because it is so predictable and it has become so boring: That's good and that's bad. – It can’t be that over seven years the opposition has not given any good idea, just as it has been proved to have been handled over the past seven years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go for over 20 years! I'm in your opinion!]] Now a colleague who was or is still in the government says that this has always been the case in the past – and that is right. Those who have the power always have problems with the good ideas of those who are in opposition. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And vice versa!]] You can do that at least once. However, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have now done something else in detail on which it is now worthwhile to deal. If you were here and talking about the powers of the National Council to examine, then it would have been nice if you had at least considered the parliamentary practice of this House in the past. Parliamentary practice was another one. Parliamentary practice in committee of inquiry is based on a very, very broad subject of investigation. We have even had acts of national administration, including private documents, of the National Bank's file here in this House in committee of inquiry, namely in the Committee of Inquiry for the AKH. It would have been nice if you had now been quoting from an opinion, you would also have read the opinion of this House, which clearly comes to a different conclusion and, above all, includes the practice, the past of this House. There's no question at all: Financial market supervision is not a court, financial market supervision is an authority. It shall make known, and shall not judge. It acts as an administrative authority and, of course, is responsible for the control of the National Council where it fulfils the duties of the state, and these are the key tasks of the State. Of course! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They are also subject to an essential error: If an authority is set free of discretion, that does not mean that it is out of control by itself! This is a widespread error, but it is a mistake! That's wrong! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] It was like this in the past: The Committees of Inquiry have set themselves a broad framework. And if a request for a decision has been submitted here in this House which does not comply with the Constitution, it is the responsibility of the President or the President not to allow that request. When this request for the setting up of an investigation committee was voted, President Khol was still sitting at the President's Square. I do not want to assume that he has approved a non-constitutional application. I don't think you want that either, Dr. Schüssel. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One last word: When it comes to creating a new relationship, especially between Parliament and the Government, but also between the political groups of this House, I believe it is also a new relationship between citizens. In this context, it would be very important to see also the following: Today, in the Donau-Auen National Park, which in the past, in the history of Austria, has made a very, very important contribution to the nature and environmental understanding, young people, environmentalists who want to prevent environmental damage. And again, we are facing the decision to send police back in or to really stop thinking this time. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3549	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Strache. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3570	Madam President. Dear Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, control rights have to be expanded – no question. We are therefore also pleased about the topic of today's hour. There's a lot to do! We have heard about minority rights today. The establishment of a committee of inquiry is to become a minority right for the political groups in this House in the future. - No question that would be a real way. Of course, we can talk about the fact that live broadcasts are ensured by Austrian broadcasting, so that it can also comply with the public service contract – not that one simply comes by here after good thinking and transmits whenever one wants, but that it is ensured that the debates in this House are really uncensoredly made accessible to the citizen. Yes, there are many ways to strengthen direct democracy: Citizen integration. It will always be hard for the citizen to make a conceptual effort, but when it comes to involving the citizen more strongly, enabling direct democracy in our Republic, it is a noble thing to hold back. Let's look at the popular desires. There have been many popular desires in recent times. I still have the anti-atomic popular desire, the genetic engineering popular desire, the women’s popular desire, the “Austria remains free!” people’s desires. In reality, they were all shubbled! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] They have not been taken seriously, they have been dealt with here for a short time. There was no right of speech from the operators in this House! – We demand a right of speech from the operators of popular desires. We demand that if a people's desire is supported by more than 500 000 declarations of support, a referendum is binding. This is important for democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To involve citizens, to enable direct democracy, is also the control that the citizen ultimately wants. This is about civil rights, and we should think about it, and not believe, so to speak, after a election, you can do and leave what you want here for four years – and otherwise you don't let the citizen talk to you at all. That's the wrong way. We will continue to strengthen the involvement of the citizen. Of course, we also want to say that a popular desire at the end of a legislative period does not simply end, as has been the case so far – it has not ended! It must be ensured that it is valid beyond the legislative period and that it is addressed. There is much to be done, up to the upgrading of the People's Prosecution and the Court of Auditors! I'd like to hold on to one thing: I have already been amused a little about the topic of today's current hour, because who is the current Federal Government? – There is a minority government of ÖVP and BZÖ. But this minority government of Black/Orange is currently being supported by red! – That’s what I’m a little surprised at, because we’re experiencing it the last few days. We are experiencing this in connection with the request concerning pensions, where a large, broad majority, almost so to speak, a concentration government has reached the issue of 1.9 percent pension increase, so that at last our pensioners will receive at least the increase in the pension price index – and suddenly the SPÖ has fallen and wants to allow only more than 1.6 percent, would like to save together with ÖVP and BZÖ on the back of the pensioners! And that's what I'm saying: Not even the black printer was dry, and the SPÖ has already fallen! That's where I've got to say: There is almost the impression that Dr. Gusenbauer has been warmed up by the cold charm of Mr. Federal Chancellor in these questions and that Dr. Gusenbauer is probably the first coach in the Republic to be able to pull himself in front of the car. - That's how it works. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question is: How long will it take you to fall into the area of democracy and control rights, because you have already tried, together with the EIA, to put in place measures to stop, so to speak, in the Committee of Inquiry on Eurofighters. Dr. Gusenbauer already reminds me a little of Don Quichotte, the knight of the sad figure, with the Sancho Pansa Cap who accompanies him. You already have the impression that you are finally playing here and that you are currently the supporters of this minority government and that all that you are giving the best in this area is not in the end to allow free parliamentaryism and free will. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We experience this: You are currently taking Parliament hostage in your government negotiations, and this is very, very sad, very, very bad. There is a lot to be changed in the sense of democracy and in the sense of control rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3661	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3685	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In short, Mr. Strache: This was an example of living parliamentaryism yesterday, that there was a change here in the House, that a government template had been improved – one has to admit – and that three parties have agreed to grant pensioners – as I quote colleagues Gusenbauer – a pension increase that is the highest in the last ten years. – This is a success! And three parties – SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ – have enforced this ; [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser]] You and the Greens weren't there! [[Abg. Street: On the back of the pensioners make savings!]] This is actually a great success for the House. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Less than the pension price index!]] One of my colleagues, Mr Cap, also in this causa: In the Committee on Budgets, it was already over again with the new parliamentaryism and the dealings with each other, because it was already significant that, although three parties agreed on a pension increase and there were good negotiations under the participation of these three parties, your colleague Matznetter tried with hands and feet to bring the BZÖ down from this request – then it was out with commonness! And that contradicts what you have said today, which contradicts a living, a common, a good parliamentaryism and a good way of dealing with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] That wasn't all right. [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] Mr Cap, you are talking about “control refusal” that has occurred in recent years – that is the very best! Mr Cap, who has lived for years in a large coalition of refusals of control, who has also spoken about it here in the House – I quote now. In 1997, Mr Cap spoke on minority and control rights and committee of inquiry and said the following – hear, hear! –: “...the... Practice of the investigative committees have the character of inquisitorial procedures’. – Josef Cap. Secondly, “there have been... situations that have already led to a media prejudgment of information. ” Third quote: “I am laughing when someone wants to tell me that MP Pilz really wanted to investigate here in the house. ... This was totally a sluggish thing to investigate, but it was only a matter of bringing all the persons in charge. That’s the truth!’ Mr Pilz is the chairman of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Those were your words, Mr Cap. I have to tell you: They have also repeatedly imposed restrictions here in the House in this coalition. They limited urgent requests in 1996 and limited the speaking time. You have repeatedly done everything that has been restricted to opposition and minority rights, and today you stand out and talk about refusal of control and lack of rights. Mr Cap, there is the beautiful sentence: “The location determines the position.” – That is the case, Mr Cap: Multiple change of location should not lead to complete incompetence and orientation. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have to say that once you talk about minority rights in the House. You've also been worried about the savers who sleep badly – I've written that down. Yeah, they slept very badly. [[Abg. Oils: You are the right one to find out!]] Do you know which savers, above all? – The BAWAG separators have slept very badly in recent weeks and months because they have been worried about their savings deposits. Do you know who slept badly? – The BAWAG employees, who are now hearing that hundreds are to be dismantled, because the BAWAG has slid into the disaster and Elsner and Co, the red leadership team there, have placed €3 billion in the Karibiksand. And do you know who is still sleeping badly, especially in recent times? – The ÖGB employees who have to buy up to 70 percent of the pension reduction, while the ÖGB peak, Mr. Hundstorfer, increases a salary limit of €11 000 grossly per month. These ÖGB employees are currently sleeping badly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That should also be clarified and examined, but that is not exactly what is happening in this committee of inquiry! I therefore propose that you do not intend at all to discover and clarify the BAWAG disaster and the ÖGB disaster, but the Investigation Committee is also under the title: ‘Fight the hunters, check the examiners’. There is no longer a word about the BAWAG story, about which 3 billion have been said, because it is not being examined at all, but it is essentially negotiated, and I am throwing it before you. You have no interest at all in real education, nor do you have any interest in real control. You don't want that at all, you want to prevent it, you've always prevented it. That is why we say that the principle applies: Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. And that is why we will again and again be in this House if, in the future, a large coalition with more than 70 percent and two-thirds majority will be denied control rights. [[Abg. Sburny: Are you not in government right now?]] You will find yourself in the next few weeks, you will be quoted again, when it comes to voting against the rights of the opposition here in the House. You will be on the side of the opponents again when it comes to creating appropriate opportunities for the opposition. We will see in the opposition that this does not happen and will use us for these rights of the minority.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3810	Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3832	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are individual politicians who suspectly often say: Let's just look forward! – There is already the impression that in the past the coat of silence should be spread. Parliamentary control, ladies and gentlemen, is such an important issue that a look back is really necessary. How has the government, how have ÖVP and BZÖ been dealing with democracy in recent years with control rights, with Parliament? – This is actually the most important task of our Members. Written questions: No, Mr Bundeskanzler, it does not help if one says that 10,000 written questions have been made, since many were not answered at all or wrong to do so. An example: The Minister of Economic Affairs said on the counter-measures in 2003: ‘In individual cases’ means ‘the causal link between a counter-business and the purchase of interceptors’. – What does the Court of Auditors say in its current report? – The contract also provides for an accounting of transactions that do not have to be related to the basic business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing of an answer to a written question which says something that does not at all correspond to the facts. Another area: Surprising questions. The Minister of Finance has explained to us on the Government Bank the opposite of what he said to the ORF in connection with the supervision of the financial market. Or the Court of Auditors reports at all – how is this handled? In part, destructive criticism is simply reinterpreted into thick praise – I am thinking about the e-card. There was talk of chaos, money destruction, mismanagement, violation of justice, but the government praised it as a world sensation. The Minister of Finance in the Court of Auditors once shot the bird, when he came up with an opinion against the Court of Auditors, with a private opinion, of course financed by the taxpayer. The then President of the Court of Auditors, who has always made a very balanced statement, said: Then we can lock the Court of Auditors immediately, that is a step in the rule of law! Or information in the Court of Auditors, I am thinking, for example, of the ÖBB: That's where it goes and about it, billions are being managed. The SPÖ, of course, wanted to consult the holding board Huber – has been rejected. It was not possible to discuss the problems in the Court of Auditors with the head of the company ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is different now after the National Council elections, Parliament is gaining priority, control is possible again, and that is why there are also the committee of inquiry. It is really very gratifying that all parties, all political groups in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, work together very well. Mr Westenthaler, you too must take note: All five parliamentary groups, all parties have sought a common way here. We have jointly decided on a trial lawyer. We have worked together on a work plan. Together we have agreed on about 70 witnesses and information persons. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have left some witnesses out because they didn't fit you!]] There is really a common ground here, and that is what the population in the end wants. The population, the taxpayer/taxer have a right to be properly controlled here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Witnesses have prevented you!]] Mr Westenthaler, let us see how we come out of this treaty together, so that we do not finally get these sintorous, unnecessary fighter planes! That would be quite, very important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: Were you in Moscow, too?]] We should use this money more meaningfully, Mr Scheibner, and not for superfluous interception hunters. With this money, let us do something for the youth, for the workers, for the older generation! [[Abg. Scheibner: Were you in Moscow, too?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A first step has been taken here with the increase in the pension which we will decide on. I tell you, this is a social policy milestone that has succeeded here. It was only possible, however, because the SPÖ here in this Parliament is the strongest political group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr Molterer, I believe that we all agree on this. [[Abg. May. Molterer: With you rarely, Mr. Herbs!]] A future Federal Government has to deal with control and parliamentarianism quite differently, written questions have to be answered quite differently, urgent questions have to be taken seriously, reports from the Court of Auditors have to be taken seriously and not simply reinterpreted. The control rights of Members, all of which are in the interests of the people and in the interests of democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You just came to the world!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can still tell you that the Court of Auditors will examine the ASFINAG – this is urgently necessary. It is heard that the debt is developing dramatically there. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that in this area too a look back is necessary in order to be able to shape policy for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3973	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3994	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Herb's request here is that we take the Court of Auditors' reports seriously, I have to ask: Does that mean you haven't taken them seriously so far? We took them seriously when control came. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Herb, looking to the future is important to us, so we are also adopting several laws today, including a very important one, namely the pension reform, where we will implement significant improvements with relatively large consensus – unfortunately not unanimously. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] Parliament's primary task is legislation, secondary control by Parliament is important. For this we have a wealth of control instruments. The Court of Auditors is the most important instrument that helps us Members to exercise control. For example, there have been four Court of Auditors reports on the subject of the Eurofighter investigative committee, which is very comprehensive and very informative. In these, no one suspicion has really been hardened, which is constantly put into the room. The Court of Auditors reports on this have already started in 2002 and have only recently been supplemented by the fourth report on counter-businesses – last week. There, too, the Court of Auditors has confirmed the correctness of the procurement operations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That's no nonsense, Mr. Kogler! Only: You don't want to hear that! You want to scandalize, you want to make suspicions, you want to maintain your slander – but you will not succeed in the committee either! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Read the Court's reports! You will not receive your suspicions, but quite the contrary: He has sustained them on all points. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Control - it has already been mentioned as one of Parliament's most important tasks - must in all cases be carried out in compliance with the laws. And this is a little too short for me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] As a lawyer, I would like to make sure that control is also carried out by the rule of law. Mr Kogler, there are just laws to be complied with. The banking secret is valid. The voters and citizens would look nice when we sniffed around in their savings books. No one wants that! For that there are these laws! And we'll keep it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The voters also have a right to, for example, comply with the doctor's secret – the e-card has already been addressed. Should there ever be an investigation committee on any health issue, Parliament has no right to sniff in the medical records. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The doctor's secret must also be respected, as must be observed, Mr Jarolim. You're a lawyer. You would be grateful if Parliament suddenly looked around in your files! Parliament cannot do that either. These laws must be complied with as well as company secrets must be observed. These too are taboo for Parliament. We don't have anything to sniff around, either. And do... – just distract and talk out! [[Abg. Riepl: You're just distracting! Disadvantages do you!]] That means you want to sniff around in it. I'm telling you: We are a rule of law and not a rule of law! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Control must also be carried out under the rule of law. In doing so, those laws that are made for them must be observed. Hold to the banking secret, to the official secret – unless it is lifted – to the doctor's secret, to the lawyer's secret, to data protection and to corporate secrets!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4105	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4136	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I will prefer to refer to the statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Mr Bundeskanzler, we have held a debate here on the setting up of the committees of inquiry. They spoke – this was also appreciated by us. At the time, as I say, you were concerned that banking secrecy could possibly be the subject of the Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision, and similar things that you have repeated today. As an applicant, we said at the time that financial market surveillance was at the centre of the investigation, because nothing else is legally possible. At least read the records if you make such accusations here! It's very easy: It was clear from the first day, and the scope of the investigation is also clearly defined. What this reviewer dispute... – Mr. Federal Chancellor, listen to me! [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] As far as the reviewer's dispute is concerned, it must be said: An authority is another construction than anything that only receives instructions from a minister. There are just high-quality tasks – and they are to be checked. That's already been done here. The point is only the following: The house is well advised when it adheres to opinions that do not come into the world in the way you have tried. They have already gained a pre-expert and then want to push a very small section of this legal opinion to the house, so to speak, on the Aug’. We already knew in committee why we were skeptical. There are a number of other opinions which are exactly the opposite! It is an authority, and within the framework of... – There can only be something wrong with this time! [[The speaker points to the flashing light at the speaker’s desk]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Something is wrong with the speech! The time is right, just not the speech!]] [[The light is gone.]] Thank you, Madam President. It is therefore reasonable if the house adheres to the following two things: First of all, on the opinion of the legislative service, and finally on this dispute – the Committee knows about these things! –: Stop with this half-lusty cannon shoot! There are constantly any ghosts being built up to be able to clear them away again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] It is quite clear that the Committee itself has commissioned these opinions and will proceed accordingly. If you boast of the parliamentary practice that has taken place in recent years, then this is exactly an example of your argumentation, which is based on double ground: All the questions you have listed – yes, many may have been asked! –, are not the merit of the government, but of the MPs. As a general rule, however, Members have had to be fed off more and more frequently by not getting essentially any answers at all. Ministers Bartenstein and Grasser have increasingly preferred it, referring to the fact that something has been distributed or, among other references, to give no answers at all. That means: These were no answers, these were essentially refusals to reply. Similarly, the reports dealt with in the Court of Auditors are dealt with in the same way. You've always pushed everything down there with your majority. Now that there are other possibilities here in the house, you wonder that these are also used. And all of a sudden, it's supposed to be bad?- Oh, my God! Mrs Fekter, Mr Stummvoll: If it were the case that banking secrecy is such a problem, then everything is clarified by the opinions. Stop spreading here and elsewhere that the “little” saver/saver and someone else must fear this investigation committee! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Look what happened! Let's talk about the matter. It's about big-scale fraud. And it is about whether financial market supervision is able to reveal it at all – in the sense of savers and investors! It’s just not about the “little ones, ” it’s about the“ big ones! ” [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Obviously, you want to run these. Then confess to this before you deliberately stage confusion in this simple way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The “little” saver, the “little” saver is not! It's got something obscene like you're doing. Is it Mr Elsner or is it Mr Taus, who has been involved, who has also played a role, who has damaged the bank place, or is it the parliamentarians who want to investigate whether a financial police work or not? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a premise!]] This is in the interest of the voters and taxpayers you have apostrophized here! If this is supposed to be an unscrupulous act, Mr President, I do not understand you. But I understand one thing: It is no longer possible to explain the fruition of the EIA in the Committee if: You find such comparisons. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's see if we're ready for Christmas, Mr. Colleague.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: The first day has proved yes: Grasser – Freunderlwirtschaft, incompetent people sent to the state commissioners. Wherever his friends sit, he sends his friends. – “Wonderful”!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4285	Next, Mr. Dr. Graf. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4318	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! I would like to discuss a little with the Federal Chancellor's Office, which you have so highly praised. Is this the same constitutional service, which in recent years has given permanent opinions on the constitutionality of laws, all of which have been repealed by the Constitutional Court? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More about accident pension taxation and the like. Is this an 'incalculable constitutional service', which, as you say, has become active on its own and delivered an opinion? And then we read one and the same thing with three opinions from the Constitutional Service: on 13. ==References== ==References== November – everything to a different number of businesses. Do not the ladies and gentlemen have anything better to do there than permanently to write down one opinion after another? In these stands – everyone starts at the same time –: The Constitutional Service was instructed to present what was the subject of an investigation committee – and so on and so on. Who gave the order? – You have just said that it has become active on its own. However, in all three opinions it is said that there was an order. However, there is no addressing who has received the opinion. This was just sent to the media and the authorities. They all have to call on it now. There is no client who wants to be called, the Federal Chancellor here says that they have become active on their own, and the Constitutional Service writes with three opinions: The Constitutional Service was commissioned. – Once he writes: the Federal Chancellor's Office Constitutional Service – even with a spelling mistake! – the Federal Chancellery Constitutional Service was commissioned to present... – Quotes. Whom, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has this Constitutional Service been commissioned to produce an opinion which says nothing but to comply with the laws? – This is what the ÖVP constantly demands from us in the Committee, namely that we adopt any dubious resolutions that we should comply with the laws! – Mr President, I would like to say once again to you from the speaker's desk: [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Dubios” is nothing at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is “dubios”?]] I have been promised to comply with the laws of this Republic – you too! – and I do not need a committee statement to be reminded! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you need such a statement, that's your problem. You probably don't want to keep it and have to bind yourself. - Or? It is! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Be objective!]] In addition: If you make a request, follow the Rules of Procedure and submit them in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] In terms of content, it is wrong, we cannot vote on such a request, because the Rules of Procedure, because they are in the Rules of Procedure – and we must comply with the laws, you say! – the task of a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Hold on!]] A committee of inquiry does not have the task of deciding each time that we should comply with laws. If this is your understanding of office as a parliamentarian, I am sorry – quite honestly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This committee is urgently needed! The review of the order practice in relation to the State Commissioners has shown that the Secretary-General is in the banks as supervisory bodies, that he is not involved in training and further education in the plethora... – Mr Lepuschitz himself has said – and that has been in public session – that he has no time for further education and training, he is doing the “in self-student”. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You dispute the...?]] The next day we read in the newspaper that Mr. Lepuschitz is working in his spare time for Fiona Swarovski. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's not true at all!]] What's the matter now? [[Abg. Strache:... on the yacht with Meinl is on the way!]] Do you want to investigate it or not? Is Mr Lepussitz going to work or not? Does he even have time? We have heard from the Financial Market Supervisory Board that the Secretary-General is often appropriate in delivering their reports on financial market supervision. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not true at all!]] – Did Mr. Dr. Traumüller say – yes or no? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Skill Are you confirming that? – Read the Minutes! That's so simple! [[Abg. Street: The “Mr Swarovski” on the yacht with Meinl!]] Mr Westenthaler says that the change of location and position is harmful. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that!]] – Mr Westenthaler, this is never harmful for you, because you never change the location or position – the main thing, you are in the government! [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] That's the only thing you do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, said he had not given any instructions to his officials. But there is a letter saying: By the Federal Ministry of Finance, signed for the Federal Minister, Dr. Els; for the correctness of the statement signed by a gentleman or a woman Schmidt. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is not a clue!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that this is already an instruction, not in the legal sense, but in the de facto sense, to the officials... – Then that is worth an investigation! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The letter...!]] You just have to say this: We want to investigate, but you want to cover!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4574	Next, Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4595	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! At the very beginning of this debate, Mr Cap asked a very important, indeed almost epochic question. He said: Why have we chosen this topic? – This question is really epochal, because we have also asked this question. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It was already clear to us... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A philosophical question!]] The philosopher Josef Cap will go into history with this present hour! [[Abg. May. Molterer: As a philosopher not!]] We were already aware that various things were not up-to-date for Mr Cap and SPÖ, such as the last OECD forecast that economic growth in Austria will be 3.2 percent – not only but also because of positive government work in the last seven years, where we have seen with three economic packages that the economy is flourishing in Austria. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] We were also aware that at this current hour you would not want to say anything about the declining unemployment figures, because you have always opposed propaganda and said that this government is destroying jobs, and today cannot admit that it has been our policy, which has precisely made sure that jobs are created again in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It was also clear to us that at this current hour you will not be bringing the issue of asylum rights, because then you would have to admit that, with our asylum law, 50 percent of asylum applications have been submitted in the last month and thus the principle of “Asyl all those who need it, but not those who misuse it”, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Newborns no longer have basic care!]] It was already clear to us that this would not bring the SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But that Parliament's control rights here – I must admit – have been demonstrated in a masterful cabaretist performance, we really would not have expected that. Mr Cap, you have to adjust the clock! You know, this is so when you switch summer time to winter time, you turn a biterl at the clock and then you do. Your clock is still in the summertime. [[Abg. Riepl: Your “arguments” are already very embarrassing!]] We would also very much like the summer time to last for the last seven years, but the winter season is coming, Mr Cap, and you also need to change a little. [[Abg. Riepl: It's time to go!]] Yeah, that's it, that's your policy: Your representatives are already present in the Ministries and put pressure on officials and say: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Riepl]] If you do not also give out information in disregard of the silence of office, then you will already see, for we are soon in the government, and then you will be wrong. – This is your policy, Mr Commissioner! It's on the land now! You are already right in your openness, but that has nothing... – That is unfortunately the reality, Mrs Silhavy, and I can tell you – he is sitting in your ranks – who has occurred in a ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Broukal!]] That's the practice. You should have that in mind once! Mr Cap, it is not so, you have the majority. There is a left-wing majority, and you have made the applications between Greens, SPÖ and FPÖ. There is this left-wing majority you have used here to set up investigation committees – that is not the case! – and for Witness surveys, witness loads. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The tuition fees!]] Mr Cap has said that the majority do not decide where and how to control it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] . We have experienced in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee what witnesses were invited and not loaded. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must not be loaded! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible!]] Why not? – He has nothing to say. The Court of Auditors, which has already made three - now four - reports, which have looked into everything that has controlled everything, is not sufficiently legitimate for the majority in this Parliament to make a statement in a Eurofighter committee! Is that your understanding of objective control? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] No, no, no, It's easy: You want to sue, you want to discredit, you don't want to explain. That's reality. As the executive club of a left-wing majority in Parliament, do not act as if you were in favour of control! The Banking Committee – you have also done this in a masterful way – is not there to explain anything, but it has been a matter of concealment. Interesting would have been the political background of the largest financial scandal in the history of the Second Republic with €3 to €4 billion in damage. This is done now by placing all the banks on the dock and thus harming Austria's economic location. The main thing is, the party's back out of the whole malaise. Col. Herbs said: Let the Court of Auditors control it! – With your two-thirds majority in the great coalition in the 1990s, you have turned off any control of the Court of Auditors, and that – we fear so – will continue to be the case in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Mr Cap, cabaret treife has nothing to do with government maturity.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4800	The limited speaking time of Members for current hours is exhausted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I declare the current hour to be over. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4819	In order to be able to negotiate items 4 to 8 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 4 to 8 are: The reports of the Budget Committee on the Government template (1 of the supplements): Novel of remuneration 2007 (4 of the supplements), and on the applications 27/A by Mr Mag. Molterer, Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues on 2. Social law amendment law 2006 (8 of the supplements), 25/A by Mr Mag. Molterer, Colleagues and Colleagues concerning the transitional care law (5 of the supplements), further 23/A(E) by Mr Neugebauer, Mr Haubner, Mr Haubner, Mr President, on the continuation of the successful labour market policy by ensuring sufficient budget resources for the AMS (6 of the supplements) and 16/A of Deputies Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Government's Act authorizing the federal government to assume liabilities of the Federal Government on the occasion of the implementation of the 2014 Winter Olympics (7 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the removal of the time-limit in respect of these items to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:21:50]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4883	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5079	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5100	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached at the Presidential Conference: Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 120 minutes, green and FPÖ per 88 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:22:38]] 1. Point Selecting a folder
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5136	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Select a folder. On the basis of the resignation of Mr Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch from the National Council must choose a folder. The proposal of the BZÖ Parliamentary Club for the folder to be elected is to Sigisbert Dolinschek. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1... – May I ask for a little more attention, ladies and gentlemen, because we are in a voting process! [[Unrest in the ranks of the SPÖ.]] Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? – That's not the case. We will now come to the vote. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the election proposal of the BZÖ Parliamentary Club to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. Thus, Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek has been elected as a folder. [[10:23:50]] 2. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of a proposal for the election of a member of the public prosecutor's office (3d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5212	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are now going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Van der Bellen. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5246	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! By changing Mr. Mag. Stadler from the People's Procuratorate in the National Council has become a trainee in the three-member public prosecutor's office. The Greens have also dealt with the relevant legal situation and have clearly come to the conclusion that the right of renunciation of the liberal group, the Freedom Party, is here in the House. This concerns the period up to 30. ==References== That does not mean, however, that we can accept any person who proposes the liberals here. This concerns in particular Hilmar Kabas, who was proposed by the Freedom Party – Hilmar Kabas, who said: “It is the Vienna who is raped with the great immigration.” Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, according to the Constitutional Act, the popular attorney has to support everyone in his complaints. I emphasize: Everyone! – whether according to this formulation a “potential rapist” or a “potential rapist”. It was Hilmar Kabas, who thought aloud about whether Caritas-Heime in Austria were “the home of illegal drug trafficking”. – This statement was sued by the Caritas, and Mr. Kabas had to take it back. It was Hilmar Kabas, who was not accepted by President Klestil as Minister of the Federal Government in 2000. And it was Hilmar Kabas who said a little later on about Kletil: “He” – Kletyl – “has behaved like a lump, and it is a shame that we have such a president.” Ladies and gentlemen, everyone in Austria can be criticized, even the President of the Federal Republic of Germany or I or anyone else in this country, but certainly, Federal President Klestil was neither a “lump” nor a “dump” nor a “hump” as Kabas later tried to modify it. For these and other reasons, we think Mr Hilmar Kabas is unqualified for this relatively high office in the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Sometimes the story beats caprioles. There is the statement “Not without irony it is that today...”, and so on. The expression “ironie” is today, I think, inappropriate. It is a kind of sarcastic joke of history that today, on the one hand, Social Democrats, People's Party and Liberals will vote in the appointment of a member of the People's Procuratorate for Mr. Hilmar Kabas and on the other hand, on the other hand, today – and today and today, on the other hand, the effects of the foreign rights package decided at the time by social democrats, ÖVP and the liberals and the current BZÖ, on the other hand, on the effect that thousands of babies and their mothers in Austria are excluded from certain social benefits, in particular family allowances and child benefits, and may not even be insured even in the case. [[Abg. May. Darabos: No!]] At the time, this was taken into account by these decision-making groups – consciously, I suppose. I expressly emphasize: I'm talking here about legal mothers and their babies; not residents without residence permits. The excitement is predicamental about the adoption of Mrs Haubner's Social Minister – aheady, I say – because, in our opinion, this adoption is not illegal, but it is quite in the area of the permissible interpretation of the relevant laws in the context of the foreign law package. This decree is not illegal! That is exactly what you have decided, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The number of children concerned, namely 7 000 to 9 000 – these are not individual cases, as has been said – is also considered to be quite realistic, as will be confirmed in the investigation process. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We now handle a popular order!]] The crocodile tears that are now being wept are really “great”: Mrs Haubner said on the one hand: I'm the last person who wants children in Austria not insured or ill-treated. But we have a law, and we must stick to that! Yes, Mrs. Haubner, but what you have not added is that you have, of course, co-operated and decided, namely, this law. I would prefer Mr Westenthaler to say in the same APA issue that everything was foreseeable and quite well. – He is at least standing at this “mist”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat, our women's minister, spoke yesterday against any discrimination against foreign mothers who are legally living in Austria. Yes, thank you, Mrs Frauenminister! So what? Has You didn't decide on this law at the time? – No, you did not decide that you were not a member of the Federal Government, you have nothing to do with that?- Oh, my God! And by the way, in your opinion, these are individual cases. In your opinion, 7 000 or 8,000 babies and mothers are individual cases. [[Abg. Smoke-callat: misinterpretation!]] The Ministry of the Interior is even better: It's just about "fucking nonsense." The fact that the FPÖ is the liberals for a further strengthening of this law can not surprise you. I shall therefore pass this by version. But the SPÖ already needs explanation. Mrs Bures said yesterday – I quote literally – that “it is a shame that the Ministry of Social Affairs is pushing mothers living in Austria and their children into poverty”. – Very right, Mrs Bures! This APA message concludes with the sentence: "In human contempt and cynicism, this process would hardly be exaggerated, so Bures concludes." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is there an agenda, Madam President? What does this have to do with the People's Procuratorate?]] But You weren't there at the time!Unknown term type: "%s".? The SPÖ was not there when the Foreign Rights Package was decided! I say to you and to your colleagues from the SPÖ: Cleansing You don't get rid of Mrs. Haubner now! Cleansing Don't get rid of the Minister of Social Affairs and her decree! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: On the matter!]] They were at the time with the Foreign Rights Package, which by the way – because I heard the call to the matter – is a law in which Hilmar Kabas Pate stood and which he could have included himself. But the SPÖ was there! You decided! At the time, I heard that security arguments have moved SPÖs to join and agree on the various intensifications in asylum law, in the right of establishment, in the area of social law intensifications. So, security arguments? – 7 000 babies are serious “security arguments” for you today? Come out and explain You here, what you will do with this law that you have decided to do in the future! – not at some point in the future, now, in the negotiations with the EIA. Explain this here and today! You and the ÖVP and the FPÖ will be appointed by 30. June for Hilmar Kabas – for Hilmar Kabas, the spiritual godfather of the Foreign Rights Package, is voting for the intensifications for foreigners who are legally resident in Austria. They share the responsibility for the fact that these thousands of babies do not benefit from family allowances, that these mothers, which are partly not even insured, do not benefit from the child's allowance! – That was the attitude of the law adopted at the time. Prove – and this my appeal is primarily addressed to the representatives of the ÖVP, but also to those of the SPÖ; but not to those of the FPÖ whose attitude I know – that this was not only crocodile tears yesterday, Mrs Rauch-Kallat and Mrs Collaborator Bures! – The latter just leaves the room, it is not on the speaker list yet. I expect you today to comment on this – now here at the speaker's desk! – that you prove that it was not crocodile tears yesterday, that It wants to be determined and determined to change and change at least those passages of the Foreign Rights Package, now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5389	Next come Mrs Scharer's speech. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5411	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the matter: The fact is, the former popular attorney Mag. ==References====External links== He was elected to the National Council in October 2006. In Article 148g para. 4 B-VG is regulated that, in the case of the early withdrawal of a popular lawyer from the party represented in the National Council, which had made the retired member a right of nomination for the new member. The FPÖ has the proposed election for Mag in 2001. Stadler. As we all know, after the fragmentation of the FPÖ and the re-foundation of the BZÖ, both FPÖ and BZÖ have occurred and in turn, under different designations for the 2006 National Council election. The FPÖ-new has been recognised as a legal successor to the FPÖ-old and has been candidates in third place on the polls. Despite the additional designation ‘BZÖ’, there were up to 30 years of age. ==References====External links== Now the FPÖ, which originally nominated the retired member of the People's Procuratorate, is again represented in the National Council. At the time of the nomination of Volksanwalt Stadler there was and even now, at the time of the post-occupying to be carried out, there is a Freedom Club. Since the Federal Constitutional Legislator has not made it clear that in the case of a new election or post-retirement, only one of the three strongest parties can be nominated and some legal opinions are available, we also represent the opinion that the right of nomination is the right to re-occupy the FPÖ. But, ladies and gentlemen, it must be assumed, no, that the popular attorney, who has been nominated by the FPÖ, acts and acts free of personal views and ideologies for the limited, relatively short period of time until the end of the term of office within the meaning of the citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Do you believe that?]] At the end of the term of office of the Volksanwälte, the state practice resorts to the number of votes at the last National Council election. The right of nomination for the definitive appointment of a popular lawyer then clearly comes to the Green Club. Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of state practice and the principle of continuity, there is no reason to take or rehearse this pragmatic approach. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the development of the People's Procuratorate is concerned, it is very positive that a long-standing demand is being met and a People's Procuratorate Committee is set up in Parliament. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, if the People's Procuratorate could have the same rights as the Court of Auditors in reporting, it would be nice to inform the National Council in the form of individual reports on current perceptions. This would allow the Committee to react more quickly and, in the interests of the Austrians, to submit legislation to the plenary. As President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this Committee, I will work to ensure that there is a rapid and unbureaucratic settlement of abuses in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5468	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5490	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We know the "mass" of the greens in such nominations, which is nothing new: It's always recognized, for example, rights, like the popular lawyer. The President recognises the House-Usus – we hear it again and again – but then he is not recognized – and ultimately the right not if one rejects the person nominated by the responsible group. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Never!]] This is inconsistency and not to justify it, because either you reject it or you do not reject it! But you can't find any means – what you've done more often, and you only do that when it comes to your own nominations. That's where you claim, there's everything great, and in your opinion, the person is also suitable. We also know from the Greens the process of repeatedly trying to bring foreign issues into the debate, so to speak, the agenda. Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen, you are Klubobmann, and therefore you should know that you should speak on the agenda on the matter – and the President should know that too; allow me this silent criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen laughs]] What a regulation or a decree of the Federal Minister for Migration has to do with the appointment of a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office, you must explain this to me first! And here too, Mr Van der Bellen, the bow you've been excited about is simply wrong. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would have expected the President to act accordingly. But if this is so excessively interpreted, okay. That can happen. We also note that, in the future, everything possible can be said about the various items on the agenda. – Is also a kind of new parliamentaryism. If that's the case, it's okay, and we'll take note of that. In short, a sentence on the decision addressed: Mrs Bundesminister Haubner has acted perfectly correctly! It acts on the ground of Austrian laws, and for that it is to be thanked, that is all right. We also fully support this in terms of content, because we believe that we have promised people before the elections, and that is what we keep after the elections – that in future social benefits should be given greater attention to citizenship, to Austrian citizens and fellow citizens. Because they do something for this and bring something, they should also first and foremost receive social benefits. Ursula Haubner's approach was quite right! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the People's Procuratorate on and for himself. Of course, as we have always done, since we have been in the House, we recognize the right of the third strongest group to nominate, one only has to ask the question – of course, the law, of course, it is written in the law, also constitutionally – whether this is all right and useful; not every law is appropriate. And in this case a constellation has occurred, which is to be questioned and where the expediency is certainly not given. This question must be asked to all Members of this House: whether it is really appropriate to have a popular attorney for all seven months, namely until 30. June 2007 to nominate, especially since the person concerned has to work in order to create infrastructure both in terms of personnel and in terms of office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] As we saw yesterday in the “Report”, there are even different opinions about where to work and set up. I have heard from the committee that Mr Kabas does not need to be involved. Then I wish him all the best, he's obviously the born popular lawyer and he doesn't need any time to work. – There is no such thing as that, there has never been anyone to come to the world as a popular lawyer! Of course, you have to act. In this context, I ask the question to the FPÖ, but also to all the others Where is there actually the austerity when it comes to consistently creating appropriate solutions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser]] Where is the saving family of the FPÖ, which here has been questioned more often by the speaker's board when a popular attorney is ordered for seven months? [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] – Mr von der FPÖ, this has already been noted: They are constantly calling out the sparing thoughts, but always when it comes to their own house, about their own Gerstl, you are the first to get to know and the sparing thoughts suddenly no longer. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have also noticed this last time; because Mr Stadler was not present, I will repeat this once again, which has secured a rich political board, which has recently become advocacy, who has voluntarily opted for the old political system in 1997 and has secured a high-level political board, while all the others have volunteered into the new system. – It is always the same knit pattern in the FPÖ: You talk about saving, but you spend the money with both hands and you can't remember when it comes to really saving. It is now time for Mr Strache of the FPÖ to prove this idea of savings by going out here and giving up this nomination, and ultimately not doing it. Either for these few months the business could take over the other two national lawyers – Mr. Stadler has apparently not gone down in the public prosecutor's office in the last few weeks, because the work continued – or – and that would have been the most reasonable way for the Republic, for this House, even apart from the person – already a popular attorney/an attorney is appointed by the third strongest group. Then there is no need for renomination in 2007, then it goes through in one, then one saves itself and then one has now created the state which is also formally, legally, democratically the right one, namely that the third strongest political group represents the popular attorney. I think that would be the best way, and this would also be borne by the spasm. Mr Strache, no one can believe that you have ultimately made FPÖ the fourth strongest force in this House and therefore no longer have this claim. It just happened to you, but I'm asking you to: Punishment You're not the voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5581	Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, I say the following: The decision on whether a call on the matter should be made only takes place by the President-in-Office of the Council, and there is the practice here in the House, which is not limited to the assessment, but to a well-balanced level. I do not think it would be in the interest of Members to consider every sentence on the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5609	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, in his speech, referred to the question of whether it would be useful now to appoint a public prosecutor for the last seven months of this term. Yes or no? – One can certainly discuss whether this is useful or not, my personal opinion is that a period of seven months has definitely been committed to re-occupying; if only two or three weeks were involved, then one would have to discuss it. In this respect, we can also take this suggestion up for future considerations, for example, in the Constitutional Convention. However, for the present situation, the legal situation is so clear and clear that you really do not need to discuss it. I would like to quote from the federal constitution. In Article 148g para. 4 is as follows: “In the case of the early retirement of a member of the People’s Procuratorate, the party represented in the National Council, which has made this member renowned, has to make a new member appointed. The re-election for the rest of the period of service is according to Abs. 2 to be carried out.’ That is to say, there is a clear constitutional provision which makes it clear. Now, when it comes to the person of the future public prosecutor, you can and should ask yourself the question: Does he have the necessary conditions to be able to exercise this function accordingly? . I think you can say a clear yes to this proposal. May. Hilmar Kabas studied law, did court practice, then worked in the administration, in the Ministry of Finance, here in Parliament and also as Head of Department in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and that means: He certainly has the technical requirement to do so! Hilmar Kabas has also shown politically, as I think, in many functions, that he obviously has the necessary stuff to do so. He started out as a District Council in Vienna, then he was in the National Council, in the Vienna Municipal Council, and he also performed functions there, on the basis of which one can say that he has obviously achieved a trust that goes far beyond his own party. Otherwise, he would not have been chairman of the Committee on Justice here in the National Council, and I believe that this is a function which will definitely enable you to be a public prosecutor. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] Hilmar Kabas was not only councillor in Vienna, but also Second President of the Wiener Landtage, and I assume that this was not only an isolated decision of a minority, but that the majority of the Wiener Landtag was in favour of it. Of course, you can ask the question independently: Does he have the human ability to exercise this special function? – In this respect, one can certainly have different opinions, as in any assessment of a person, but I can say from my personal experience with Hilmar Kabas – I have known him for about two decades now, because of our political functions we have met again and again –: I have come to know him as a straight and critical person, who has quite clearly understood it in difficult situations not only to preserve his independence, but also to enforce it. And I think that precisely these three characteristics in connection with his professional qualifications, which no one can dispute with him, and his political commitment, which he has now shown for decades, actually enable him to exercise this function to a very high degree. I would think that if the Green Mrs. Stoisits proposed the function of the future public prosecutor, then certainly many Austrians do not believe that she is the ideal occupation. And if I draw a comparison, I have to say, If you can trust Mrs Stoisits, you can do that. At least give Hilmar Kabas to the same extent. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Is this because Mr. Kabas is a man, Mr. Colleague?]] In this sense, we also propose that the election of the public prosecutor be carried out here in this House as unanimously as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5657	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5679	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fassleven's remarks have already impressed me negatively. First, Mr Fassleven, you have defended Mr Kabas. - That's your right. You think you've known him for 20 years, he's got an impeccable CV, professional conditions, he's probably also got the necessary political stuff for it. But, Mr Fassleven, Mr Kabas has proved that in part he does not even know what he is saying! Once he says “lump”, then he says “dump”, then he says “Hump. ” This is your good colleague, who is here to defend you.Unknown term type: "%s".? In addition, you say: If this National Council – hopefully – can elect colleague Stoisits in the public prosecutor's office, then certainly also colleagues Kabas. – Of course, as Greens, I am now defending Mrs Stoisits, but at least she knows what she is saying and what she is talking about, which was not the case with Mr Kabas. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It surprises me once again when I now see the negotiating situation for coalitions and so on that Mr. Dr. Fassleven goes here and now goes towards FPÖ very benevolent and says: definitely for colleagues Kabas! I have to ask myself: Is this already a first step towards making a request to Mr Strache to communicate to him: Let us perhaps make a different majority of governments!Unknown term type: "%s".? As this is very likely to be interpreted, Mr Fassleven, otherwise the ÖVP could simply say that there is the right of nomination, that is all right. But just go here and defend Hilmar Kabas like you did now – I can only interpret this as a provider of the ÖVP to the Strache FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to Mr Westenthaler, who meant that my clubman, Van der Bellen, had not spoken on the matter. Perhaps I should explain to you once again what the public prosecutor's job is. The public prosecutor's task is, among other things, to examine legal situations such as foreign law, right of establishment, right of residence. This examination competence has the public prosecutor's office. It could happen over the next seven months that a foreigner who has recently been born a baby in Austria appears with Mr. Volksanwalt Kabas and asks him to stand up for her rights, rights which she has been granted by a majority decision here in this Parliament, including SPÖ. Then what will Mr. Volksanwalt Kabas do? Will he defend the right of this woman with the newborn? Will he say: Well, what my party said back then, that's me...!Unknown term type: "%s".? Again: Does this FPÖ, according to Mr Kickl, want to intensify the law again? It is certainly legitimate to bring this issue into this debate and to say quite clearly no to a popular lawyer, Kabas, who – to fear it – could think as a popular lawyer that this alien with the newborn baby, who is legally staying in Austria, does not get the money, and does not work for her. We say no to such persons in the People's Procuratorate. No, you can't! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kostelka is responsible, not Kabas! You're wrong!]] Perhaps another word on the public prosecutor's office and their duties. We Greens have always defended the work of the People's Procuratorate and their need. Much of what is happening there is excellent work, but what we have always felt to be problematic, is that the suggestions that came from the People's Procuratorate, from this National Council – mostly! – as well as have never been implemented. It is above all about the fact that the People's Procuratorate, in which more and more complaints occur each year, because the law majeure, which is being decided, is so complex and the population is increasingly turning to the People's Procuratorate and seeking advice, actually needs to be increased. The public prosecutor's office needs more staff, needs more resources. This should probably be taken into account by all the parties in this Parliament in the next budget to the Supreme Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5738	The next item is the speech by Mr Strache. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5760	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the beginning, I would like to say that we should perhaps remember whose child is actually the public prosecutor's office. That was a requirement of the Freedom Party, and we have fought for years and decades for this institution to become a reality. Gustav Zeillinger was one of the historical personalities who did great things in this area. – You might want to fix that at the beginning of the day. Today, the Greens have been spoken of as the "machination" of the Greens. – Well, that’s this typical reflex, not a question, that was to be expected, but as long as the greens react in this way, I can only say that the world is fine for us. As long as greens have a power. Hilmar Kabas as a popular lawyer can only be said thank you, because this confirms us that he will be the right popular lawyer, namely a lawyer for Austria's interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] May. Hilmar Kabas is a first-class candidate for this office. He has, as we have already heard today and how to understand his CV, the professional qualifications and the training for them. He was chairman of the Justice Committee, he was in the Constitutional Committee, he did a very positive job as second country president in Vienna. He is one who can in all cases fulfill these important tasks. Of course I also have to hold on: The “suddle accusations” that have once again come today are simply last-class and drawn by the hair. It is not really worth taking a closer look at it. Hilmar Kabas will be the important task and gap, the power. Ewald Stadler has left his retirement from the People's Procuratorate in the next seven months as good as possible – and that is the decisive thing! We had power. Ewald Stadler was the most successful People's Procurator to date. He was the most successful popular lawyer, also the popular lawyer with the highest audience ratios in the ORF. But you have always been excited about him because he has apparently been too successful because he has represented the right of the citizens and has helped the citizens to their right. That shows how you act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is surprising if Mr. Westenthaler – or Hojac, whatever he may call himself – turns out to be a clubman here and thinks it would be better to use Mrs. Stoisits as an attorney for these last seven months. This is particularly funny, when you know that the BZÖ has, first and foremost, been interested in this post itself, has gone to President Khol and has become a prefaced one and said: Please, we need quickly an opinion to be able, after we have occupied the club of the liberals and have cleared the funds to the liberals, perhaps even to be entitled to the position of the third public prosecutor. – A misjudgment that basically has nothing to do with the legal order It is clearly constitutionally regulated that the third strongest party has not only a right of nomination, but also the duty to occupy these posts. It is still seven months to June 2007, and therefore it is important that this important task be taken over by a public prosecutor who does not need any further staff. The staff already exist, it has up to now Mr Mag. Ewald Stadleral's People's Procurator. There is no need for any additional staff, there is no additional cost, no, but it will be the post, Mr Magn so far. Ewald Stadler, who has been changed to this High House, has included, just with power. Hilmar Kabas is re-occupied so that the tasks can be fulfilled in the People's Procuratorate. No more and no less! We had 16 133 calls in 2005 alone. In the field of administration, namely federal and regional administration, there were 10,796 cases. A great deal of work has to be done there, important work on behalf of the citizens. That's why the third public prosecutor needs it. It's not easy to leave the post unoccupied. Mr Westenthaler from the BZÖ seems to feel as the help of the Greens or grated as such, if he thinks: It would be nice if Mrs Terezija Stoisits would be used. – Every citizen who has so far voted differently than green can only get his head on it if you give it to him, Mr Cot. I may also be allowed to give some letters of readers and articles from the “Kronen Zeitung” for the best. ‘former drug dealer must not stay in Austria: His hunger strike seemed to be of no use to Geoffrey A.’ Now it is so – “as the former drug dealer himself has promised” – that he must“ leave Austria within four weeks”. “So the marriage with the Austrian woman born in Romania does not help him either.” ‘It is incomprehensible for the future green lawyer Terezija Stoisits, which is why ‘family law seems to be less important than public security’. Then there is also an interesting letter from the “Kronen Zeitung”: Yeah, that's what it's like after the election. You choose Van der Bellen and get Terezija Stoisits. – Many will not really be happy either. There are other letters such as: Finally, popular lawyers for drug dealers! Austria has been waiting to have these Stoisits in the office of the Volksanwälter. Now all the criminal foreigners not only have their representatives in parliament, but also in the public prosecutor's office, writes Ms. Herta Grurl. Up to other newsletters, where exactly that is worked out: Who cares today if some Austrian citizen of criminals, perhaps by the organized crime, by immigrants who are criminal, and who had to experience a martyrdom? Who cares? Who cares about the citizen? – So this is not expected by the future popular lawyer. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think this is a very crucial point: May. Hilmar Kabas will be the lawyer of the people, will be the lawyer of Austrian citizens, will ensure that citizens who remain right are helped and these citizens also come to their right. This is a very, very important task that he will fulfil. Well, there's good things he'll do the best. Now can This gap, which has just arisen, will be closed, and no additional costs will arise, as falsely claimed by the representative of the BZÖ, for that is simply unfair. If you are talking about savings measures, Mr Westenthaler, please touch your own nose! First, you want to have all posts yourself, even though they are not legally available to you, and then you prefer to save the popular attorney on the back of the population, so that they no longer have a representative. But with the State Secretary, you see no problem at all, that you now have unemployed State Secretary in office, who do nothing more, but are industriously categorising Gage. That's really unique. You can be “sudden” about that! But the voters will have no understanding of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5882	The next item is the report by Mr Scheibner, with a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5903	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, it is already “fine” that you accuse Mr Westenthal’s appeal to the left and to the Greens. It was you who were prepared to support a left-wing government for a little bit of the wink of Mr Cap and a little bit of 'Yes, servus!' from Mr Pilz, even a minority government! [[Abg. Strache: Investigation Committees where you are against control!]] Yes, we have a committee of inquiry, where you also believe that a President of the Court of Auditors should not be invited. So these are things you should carry out with yourself. With the savings, it is also such a story: I think Mr Stadler's former head of the office is now with you in the club. So that would also have to be replaced. But that's not what it's all about. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I say quite frankly to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: Your attitude is a bit of transparent: All of a sudden, everyone who comes out of the FPÖ is very terrible and not acceptable, but at this stage when it came to perhaps making a government together with the SPÖ, and when you were needed to bring about a few majorities, it was all very different, because it was not so bad. That was a little lapsus when any statements of yours happened. And now suddenly you're full again on this track. I say quite frankly to you: May. Hilmar Kabas is a totally impudent person. I'll tell you that with all the clarity. [[Abg. Mandak: This is not our opinion!]] You, where you always point to political correctness, should in fact also insist here that it was he who was the victim of political violence. They didn't get excited, and you didn't get excited about the SPÖ, but they made him despicable. He was only in the way as a possible Vienna top candidate for a SPÖ majority, and at that time he was tried to do anything against him. Unfortunately, this is the political game, sometimes also an evil acting, but now to come and argue with it, he should not be, he should no longer have a function at all, that is certainly transparent and not okay. What we criticized was not the nomination of Mag. Hilmar Kabas, but just as Klubobmann Westenthaler said, was the question of practicality. We have already said in the Constitutional Convention that it does not make sense that if the majority relationship changes during a legislative period, then, even if it is only a few weeks or months, one needs to change everything in an interim manner, and then, when the normal period expires, everything has to be changed so to speak. Although there has been agreement in the Constitutional Convention on this question that the third strongest party should always be eligible for nomination, but, as we know, there was the veto of the SPÖ party headquarters, and therefore there was no overall solution to this question. That is why we now see this as a problem – and not because the office of Mr Mag. Kabas will be bad. On the contrary: I think she'll be better than before. If something was harmful to the People's Procuratorate, then it was the time of the election campaign where we had a campaigning popular lawyer. If it had been so good to make a change here, then we could have done it already in spring or early summer 2006. Then another year would have been time for the new popular attorney. This would certainly have been better for the public prosecutors as a whole. Of course, it takes time to get started. Of course there is the change. Of course, there are also, as has already been said, new staff, and of course, a new popular lawyer also has the problem that he has to become known once. The public prosecutor's mission is positive, because the lawyers can also present themselves accordingly, and the people can then say: Yes, this is my popular lawyer, whom I know, who is good, has a good appearance, to him or to her I can turn with my concerns and fears! Therefore continuity is also useful in this function. It is important to consider whether the Court of Auditors should also be permanently extended for longer periods of service. The rights of the People's Procuratorate should also be discussed once. Above all, everything should be done against it – against the proposal, which has always come back there – that the number of lawyers should be reduced. I would think that is completely wrong, because the people want to get in touch with the Volksanwalt or the Volksanwaltin and not exclusively with any staff or civil servants. The fact that there is a right of nomination in the Constitution is no question at all. We, Mr Strache, have not appointed ourselves an opinion, but, as you know very well, it has given us an appropriate opinion on the right of nomination by the Parliamentary Directorate before the election, because it has been assumed that, in order not to be responsible for party politicization of the People's Procuratorate, then if a popular attorney is running a party list, he will also reserve this function. But be it. There would also have been the possibility that the nominating group would nominate someone else. In another context, I am still in the ears of the fact that there have already been considerations and proposals. So it wouldn't have been brought back that far. Finally, I say to you: It would have been better to maintain continuity here and not now to order a popular lawyer for seven months. This is personally unworthy – but for the People's Procuratorate this is certainly the wrong procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5965	Mrs Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. Worm with a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5987	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As you have complained, Mr Scheibner, that the short-term re-occupied must now be re-occupied only for seven months, I wonder why, within the last six and a half years, you have had the opportunity to amend the Constitution, Article 148g... – I have not seen in this respect a legislative proposal here! [[Abg. Scheibner: You were against it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In the Constitutional Convention! But you refused!]] In the Constitutional Convention – but there was no legislative proposal here in your house. That's fact! And on the other hand, you now complain that for a short period of time it must be re-occupied. The legal opinion is clear. We only need to look at constitutional law, Article 148g para. 4, and also the relevant opinion of the relevant scientists, Walter, Mayer et cetera, is clearly on this question, namely that it would be absurd not to re-occupy the position of the public prosecutor. If Mr Klubobmann Strache has basically accepted the public prosecutor's office and the important activity of this institution, has praised it and has also mentioned the merits of the former popular attorney, I would also like to say that in 1977, when the establishment of the public prosecutor's office was decided here in the house for the benefit of the citizens, there was a single government of the SPÖ. And we are still proud of this today; we celebrated the 25th anniversary here in 2002. But in principle again on the activities of the People's Procuratorate, because we have to discuss it today: There will be an upgrade here in the public prosecutor's house, in the form of a separate committee to deal with the reports of the public prosecutor's office. Let me say a few things about this. It is too little that the reports of the public prosecutors are dealt with in this committee only once a year. It must also be possible to return special reports on current issues, because the lawyers are those who are confronted by the people with the different complaints, they know how a law really affects the citizens when it comes to application, where there is a need to work and where the legislator may have to make some change. Klubobmann Van der Bellen, for example, has addressed the foreign rights package in this sense today. That too would be an important task of the public prosecutor's office. I therefore plead for the possibility of special reporting of lawyers, because it is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, if, as we have already experienced here in 2002, the People's Procuratorate submits a special report – then on the award of heating subsidies – and then it cannot even be discussed. [[Assured by Mr Strache and Mr Mag. Stadler]] We did not understand that, and no human in our republic understood it. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would also like to add that, in expanding the public prosecutor's powers, the public prosecutor's office will also be able to control the distributed lawyers in the future. That would, I think, be a very essential thing. In the last 15, 16 years, i.e. since 1990, about 50 farms have been distributed, which have been deprived of the control of the People's Procuratorate. The complainants can now send a letter to the ÖBB for example, to Telekom, to the post office. How this complaint is then dealt with and whether at all, no human knows. That is why, I believe, it is very important that the public prosecutor's powers be extended to include control of the distributed legal entities – a very central point that I believe should be implemented in this legislative period for the benefit of citizens. That would be, as it were, the catalogue of wishes of our Members as regards the upgrading or the powers of the public prosecutors. In conclusion, I would like to add that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, in addition to its own Committee on Public Prosecutions, is still responsible for dealing with the concerns of citizens here in the House. These committees are the direct link to the citizens, and I believe that we must give due attention to these two committees, including in the sense of a close-up Parliament. That does us well, and that would also increase the legitimacy of the outside for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6049	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Stadler with a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6070	Mr President. High house! Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank all those Members and political groups who recognize the right of the liberals to nomination, but not only this right, because this is clearly the result of the federal constitution, but also of respect for the personality proposed by us and thereby express it by choosing it. [[Abg. Mandak: We don't have that! We're missing him, respect him!]] I immediately believe that you lack respect for personality, that's nothing new, that's what I'm going to talk about anyway. Before I mention your clubman's remarks, another sentence to the address of the colleague Worm: They are quite right that the People's Procuratorate was established under the SPÖ Government in 1977. But what Klubobmann Strache rightly pointed out is that this had a very long lead. In the 1960s, it was the liberal deputies van Tongel, who repeatedly called for a Ombudsman's establishment here in the house for a Swedish example. And in 1970, when it came to the tolerance of the minority government of Bruno Kreisky, that was agreed. So that was the forerunner. It then took another seven years until one finally dared to decide on such a “hazardous” institution as the People’s Procuratorate – and then only provisionally, with a provisional law that was initially set up for five years. So this People's Procuratorate didn't come into existence without the freedom of the handwriting. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen referred to alleged comments by the Hilmar Kabas. – I tell you, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, that's a little dangerous. With the same method, I would like to draw on comments from each member of your club to say why we should not choose Mrs Stoisits or anyone else. In every political group, every politician, every Member of this House has no number of statements which could cause us to say: Why should a free citizen, a free voter go to a Green People's Lawyers or a Green People's Lawyers in the future, because he must fear being discriminated against?- Oh, my God! Leave Please leave this method, it doesn't work! It also works against you if You choose this method. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has gone a little further, Professor Van der Bellen, if you have then tried to get Mrs. Haubner's decree to explain why you could not vote for Hilmar Kabas – apart from the fact that you really missed the subject. As you obviously did not have any real factual arguments against Hilmar Kabas, you have talked about two thirds of your speaking time and have spoken about Mrs Haubner's decree. Mr. Professor, if you want to argue with a lot of tears, you have to familiarize yourself with the legal basis before. Then: If a complaint is addressed by a leading foreign mother to the People's Procuratorate for the order of Mrs. Haubner's Federal Minister described by you, then after the distribution of the public prosecutor's office's business – I recommend your study – is according to § 3 para. 1 Z 3, Col. Kostelka responsible. And, hopefully, this is not for election today – or do you have mistrust of Mr Kostelka? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No!]] Look at you! Therefore, your model and your argumentation are missing in the approach. Sit down, not enough! Please choose Hilmar Kabas, otherwise you will not have made any arguments against Hilmar Kabas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The colleague, Mr Lunacek, also prayed in a good way what Mr Van der Bellen falsely prayed for. It's good to always get familiar with the legal bases. By the way, you have had a state of justification. They have no reason to explain why Hilmar Kabas should not be elected. [[Abg. Brosz: You didn't listen!]] It is also not an objective reason to say that a politician must not become a public prosecutor, because he could eventually return to politics, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say!]] – The evil Ewald Stadler who fought election! [[Call the ÖVP: He's right!]] - He's not right! Especially on the ÖVP side, I would be careful because the model that the campaigning Volksanwälter presented was the Ingrid Korosec from ÖVP Vienna. Did you forget that? That was the first popular lawyer to go on the run. The Social Democratic People's Lawyers Mag. Messner, of course, always held the chair of the socialist women in Burgenland – never bothered anyone, had no contradiction at all in the public. The colleague Kostelka was, of course, a candidate on the SPÖ's federal list – did not disturb anyone. But hardly is a liberal on any list, the vertebra is large and the Republic is in danger. Let this hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! Measure with the same measure – and then come to other results! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Ing. Westenthaler! You know, Mr Ingenieur, if you say that the constitution is not to be fulfilled for reasons of economy, then you could say just as well that for reasons of economy, the Federal President could have ignored the Constitution and should not have entrusted the current Federal Government with the continuation of the official business. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ]] – All arguments of sparingness! Or: Then one could have asked if it would not have been cheaper for reasons of economy to call your party separation illegal and illegal – illegitim was it anyway – because it would save your clubman's content, for example. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your pension! What about your pension?]] Or you could save the Eurofighter for sparing reasons in order to buy a much cheaper device than what you prefer so well. Or you could even save state secretaries for economic reasons, which you have only because of the fact that someone from your party is provided, ladies and gentlemen. Or, for reasons of economy, one could also talk about whether one would have wanted to wipe away from the outset the right of renunciation, a popular lawyer from the BZÖ and from the orange ranks. Or would you like to become a popular lawyer? – For God's sake, just say it! We could have talked about that! We could have talked about whether it might not have been possible to save you from the house and perhaps give you to the public prosecutor's office. Or: Mr Scheibner is also an up-to-date case which is on the run, in front of the Eurofighter Committee. That's why I understand that you've had efforts to become a popular lawyer yourself. And since they have failed, you challenge the constitutional law of organ creation, but also the organ creation obligation of this House – for reasons of economy! Mr Fassleven has correctly explained to you that there is a legal imperative of the Constitution here. – Do you want to put this out of control at once – for reasons of economy?- Oh, my God! That's the cheapest – the cheapest! – Polemik because, unlike Mr Scheibner, you have not been able to provide any material reason. Mr Scheibner, in fairness, gave reasons for the person Kabas; On the other hand, you have tried to find some reasons for your proposal and have not been found. That is why you concluded: For reasons of economy, we save it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your pension, for example!]] Of course! For reasons of economy, we could save your whole party, your whole group – for reasons of economy! Imagine what we would save ourselves! That is why this argument does not draw, ladies and gentlemen. It's not drawing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you: The Public Prosecutorship is an important institution, which, unlike the Dutch model – as Mrs. Worm Recht has the right of Mrs. Wurm – ensures that every citizen has a popular lawyer's trust. Since he does not need to stick to party colors, he can choose anyone; Leadingly, he can contact any popular lawyer, and he can contact any popular lawyer personally. This does not exist, for example, in other countries: There are countries that are considering adopting the Austrian model, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Stadler! Say something to your pension! Is it true that you have 6 000 € pension?]] Look, I want to tell you something: If you are constantly trying this model, ask yourself if this is not the same model that your worshiped half-god Jörg Haider used or if you have just taken out of the office of colleague Martin Strutz! – Go, ask! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have performed voluntarily!]] – In agreement with Jörg Haider by the way! I repeat: In agreement with Jörg Haider! Why don't you ask? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah so?- Oh, my God!]] Look, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler: If you're sitting in the glass house, don't throw stones. This would even have to be a technician – a technician as decorated as Mr. Ing. Westenthaler – to be common, this agricultural proverb, ladies and gentlemen, High House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: voluntarily opted for tax payment costs! The taxpayers pay your pension!]] You can watch and roar with your orange tie, it will not help you! It was your boss who staged the whole thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have performed voluntarily! You're cashing a tax payer's pension!]] - Yes! Yes, Mr. Westenthaler! You will therefore no longer have political survival! And you will continue to lose every fight with me – you have already lost it in the past! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, let me say to my colleagues Dr. Peter Kostelkaund Rosemarie BauerThank you for the good cooperation. She was far better than it sometimes appeared in the public – she was really good! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah so?- Oh, my God!]] We have a very comrade, collegial, partly even friendly cooperation. We had excellent employees in the People's Procuratorate, and we continue to have them. These employees have been completed by doubling the number of applications and doubling the number of complaints without having to significantly increase the staffing level. I would like to have that shown to me by someone else from another department area that a whole device is able to cope with a doubling of the work experience without further delay. We have invested a lot in training, we have invested a lot in rationalization, we have been able to improve a lot in the public prosecutorship. Therefore my warm thanks to the staff of the People's Procuratorate, who are excellently trained people, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] A very special thanks also to the Austrian Radio, the ORF, and above all to the People's Procuratorate Team under Peter Resetarits, who has contributed very much to making the Public Prosecutor's Office known as a popular form of legal protection for right-seeking citizens in Austria and has also contributed very much to improving the legal protection of Austrians, but also, of course, everyone's attention, because everyone can contact the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and ÖVP]] Finally, I would just like to give you an example so that you can see how necessary this is: We have around 40 000 people in Austria – an incredible percentage, in my view, of the international comparison! These people are not referring to anyone in this republic who listens to them when the public prosecutorship did not exist. That is one of the reasons why I am fighting so militarily for this institution: because, according to the experience of recent years, I am deeply convinced that it has become one of the important institutions for the right-seeking citizen in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6351	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the main committee, 3 of the supplements, Mag. Hilmar Kabas for the rest of the term of office to be a member of the People's Procuratorate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[11:26:13]] 3rd. Point Election of permanent committees
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6391	We'll get to the 3rd. Agenda item. It is for me to put in place the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Building Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology, Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal treatment committee, Committee on Internal Affairs, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, National Defence Committee, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, The Court of Auditors, Committee on Sports, Tourism Committee, Committee on the Environment, Public Health Information Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Public Prosecutor's Committee, Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs and Science Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. In accordance with Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. The members and substitute members shall be appointed to the parliamentary clubs in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure or in accordance with § 32 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the President, who shall be deemed to be elected. After consulting the Presidential Conference, the following members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Committees mentioned: The Committee of the Rules of Procedure shall consist of 17 members and alternate members each. In accordance with the Shapley procedure, six members and replacement members of the SPÖ each, six members and replacement members of the ÖVP, two members and replacement members of the Greens and the FPÖ, as well as one member and replacement member of the BZÖ. For all other previous committees, 27 members and replacement members are proposed. In accordance with the d’Hondt’s system, each of the ten members and replacement members of the SPÖ, 10 members and replacement members of the ÖVP, three members and replacement members of the Grüne and the FPÖ, as well as one member and replacement member each to the BZÖ. We shall come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the proposed number of members and the composition to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes who have been announced by the President's clubs, and thus as elected Members, are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Not all lists were available at the time of printing.]] [[The members and substitute members and the elected functions are available on the Internet under the heading ‘Parliamentary Events’.]] [[11:29:21]] 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1d._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz and the Richterdienstsgesetz (Taldungs-Novelle 2007) (4 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6560	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Pendl spoke with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6588	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This salary novel is indeed a consensual matter. I believe that following a long tradition, the trade unions, in concrete terms the Public Service Trade Union and the Trade Union of Municipal Workers, here with the Federal Service Provider, but also in consultation with the representatives of the local authorities, countries and, of course, also communities, have achieved a negotiated outcome, which we take over in this way. There was also a discussion in the Committee on whether it should be a uniform percentage. I say from long experience, there has always been the discussion of what type of salary is being negotiated over the years, there have been all variants, there have been mix variants. I think it's a good, a fair degree. It is important to me that it has been promised that the countries and municipalities will also take over this salary statement. This also guarantees the togetherness of the public service, fairness, justice, if you like. However, I would also like to point out one point very strongly and intensively. In many years of discussion, when it came to public service – and I will not tire out, ladies and gentlemen, even in the future – many have said that our public servants provide an excellent service for the Austrians and for the state. I would like to thank all public servants personally and on behalf of my group for this service. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we were at the item on the agenda, I have always taken the opportunity to thank myself very much on behalf of my group and personally to the staff here in the House. For ourselves, everything is often a matter of course – no matter how late it is – and we expect everything to work. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament! Our common thanks here also from this speaker's desk. We appreciate your services! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, let me make a request. With all the understanding that there is always a change, yes, must come: Let us not forget that it is with the employees of the public service. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and they are not presented exclusively as a cost factor in discussions. I do not think it deserves to be done by our colleagues. I think they also have a right to treat them fairly, fairly and collegiately. I would like to express this invitation to all the political groups, because it is in line with today's item on the agenda. I think that this salary statement – I have already mentioned it – is a good one, a fairer one, a fairer one. That is why our group is very pleased to agree to this salary statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6655	The next item is the report by Mr Neugebauer, with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6676	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleagues! The opposite novelle brings this salary conclusion, the one with 1. ==References====External links== It was the interest of the negotiating trade unions that the decision to be taken today already made by Members of the European Parliament. January of the coming calendar year of this salary agreement has also been implemented on the salary register. The comparison of this conclusion with other collective agreements allows us to conclude that it is a very good conclusion, which is also registered in the colloquium, but which is only due to the fact that other collective agreements have different durations, which are based on other prognostic values. We did something different this time. As forecast values for inflation in the coming year or the economic growth of this year cannot yet be fully described, we have for the first time taken correctly account of the past, i.e. the last twelve months. This has led us to this result; and we were very interested in bringing this result to the stage very quickly. This salary balance for 2007 compared to that of 2006 is, although this figure has amounted to 2.7 percent, higher in itself, because this year's financial statements for the coming 1. Years above the inflation rate have been much more successful in economic growth than last year. On the opposite side of the negotiations, representatives of the Federal Confederation, the Municipal and Municipal Governments also sat among the employers. They have pledged that in the next few days and weeks, land days for the other local authorities, for whom employees of the countries and municipalities will understand this salary. I would like to appeal again. Public service, ladies and gentlemen, has responded to the new challenges in recent years much faster than that which has been discussed in the media. Due to the very high competence of our employees in the federal, state and local authorities, the public services are offered to the public of high quality. Public service stands for an objective law enforcement, which always happens when you use the corruption index. in international comparison, the conclusion is that the public services in Austria are practically free of corruption, which is ultimately an important parameter for a very good market economy event in our country. I would also like to point out that in spite of some of the cross-border and harsh beatings that have taken place in recent months by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the liveliness of the trade unions has been presented with these and other collective agreements. This is also an expression of social dialogue and a well-understood social partnership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two thoughts at the end, ladies and gentlemen. We ourselves always pass many laws and expect the colleagues to implement them automatically. The documents of the laws point to the cost assessment, the EU compatibility of these provisions is examined, but we – and this is also a Mea Culpa – probably do not think enough about whether or not sufficient personnel are available for this execution. We should always ask ourselves, in all these justified decisions, whether we can deal with this or if sometime the rule of law goes out of the air. That shouldn't happen. I would like to highlight the fact that, as public service trade unions, we also have to deal with substantial projects with a future Federal Government, namely a modern right of service for all, which also ensures that public servants can fulfil their tasks in a press resistance, and that we also ultimately adopt a modern salary system, which replaces the principle of seniority in favour of a stronger teaching of initial remuneration for our young colleagues. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this outcome, which has been given overwhelming and broad approval in my colleague country. Thanks to the employees, not only here in the house, but also in the other services outside the house. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, who often do not thank them as public servants. I should like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6744	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6765	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put it out of dispute that good work is being done in the public administration. It is also clear that the reputation of officials is much better than is always claimed. Here and today, however, we are dealing with the salary balance of 2.35 percent. We Greens do not in principle reject this salary statement, but I would like to comment a little critically on it before the budgetary policy of recent years. How to assess this salary at first? – Although it is clearly above the inflation rate of 2006 and 2007 – which my previous speaker has already pointed out – it needs to be measured by the lead of the metallers rather than are called moderate; on average, these have been completed by 2.8 percent. Why? – A look at the salary accounts of recent years, particularly since 2000, shows that there have been only in 2003 and 2006 salary accounts above the inflation rate. This clearly shows that the government has saved the salary increase of public servants. It has not only reduced staff, it has also saved on wage increases. This was then sold to us as “administrative reform”. In one of his first budget speeches, Mr. Grasser, in this connection, said that the State was saving itself. But this is, of course, economic nonsense, because he does not have himself, he has saved with the officials – and in those years he has been the strongest when the economy has broken down massively, namely in 2001 and 2002. As a result, as well as through the increases in the taxes of 2000 and 2001, you, Mr. Finanz State Secretary, and the Minister of Finance, have reached a balanced budget with the highest tax rate of all time. However, at the same time as this policy has contributed to the strengthening of the economic downturn, and the Economic Research Institute has clearly demonstrated this with its estimates. The welfare losses in these years amounted to half a percentage point of gross domestic product per year. And the consequences on the labour market have not been avoided: Unemployment has risen. Then came the years 2004, 2005. These were the years of “the greatest tax reform of all time. ” However, this tax reform in 2004/2005 did not relieve the lower and lower incomes at all: either because the incomes were so low that they were below the tax-free limit – and that was at least over 2 million people in Austria, including, of course, public servants – or because the modest profits from tax reduction have been offset by tax increases, by increases in contributions or by self-retaining. The slogan by Minister of Finance Grasser “Less taxes, more for life!” turned out to be an advertising slogan that had little to do with reality and has little to do with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the contrary: Net real income in recent years has fallen significantly more markedly in the lower and lower incomes than in the upper and upper incomes. But that means – and now I return to the novelle in 2007 – that it would have been urgent to increase the lower and lower incomes more than the upper ones. For distribution policy reasons, therefore, base amounts would have been a command of the hour. However, a salary with base amounts is not only indicated as a distribution policy, it could have been better supported by the strengthening of low incomes also by the sharp economic upturn. According to the latest forecast by the Economic Research Institute, private consumption, which is still the Achilles of Austrian but also European economic development, and I quote, will continue to develop very much. Thus, base amounts would have been a building block, although a small one, for a more growing policy. This is an opportunity that you, Mr State Secretary, miss out on a linear salary statement. The evolution of government revenue in the previous year shows very clearly that growth is very rapid in higher tax revenue. The growth of budget deficits and unemployment So the foreign exchange must be. What the saving of neoliberal cuts has led us to in recent years, this government has led us dramatically: to a redistribution to companies, to a burden on lower incomes, but also – and consistently almost to the last – to an increase in unemployment, especially youth unemployment. And that must be done! Nor is there any mention of this in the White Paper on Growth and Employment, which the Economic Research Institute recently presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6840	Next, Mr Kurzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6862	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will agree to the Novelle 2007 salary. We are convinced that it is a step in the right direction. This salary adjustment is justified. In public opinion – already mentioned by the previous speakers – public service or public service services are not always properly appreciated. We all know the cartoons that appeared in the “Faccle” already in the 1920s, for example by Karl Kraus, where the officials were represented with the Sleeves. We also know that every year before the budget debate, discussions on the question are constantly instigating: What can be managed, what can public service cost? And we know that comparisons with Switzerland and the Federal Republic of Germany are very likely to be made in the analyses. And then there is – and this is well known to all public servants – the wrong impression in parts of the public that the person working in the public service is, so to speak, in a protected area. Ladies and gentlemen, if these stereotypical opinions were perhaps justified sometime in the past, everyone who works in a modern administration today knows that the times have changed a lot, that in the last ten years, not only in the financial administration, not only in the judicial administration, not only in schools, but in the public service as a whole, has been very much furthered. For example, Pragmatization has been pushed back far, although I would also like to say critically: It will not be possible to give up Pragmatization in certain areas in the future. In this context, I would like to say: It is the question of the official telephone system, which is to be asked here, where at the moment we do not know exactly how long these checkouts can still be financed, because there are fewer and fewer officials. We know that modernisations and adaptations were only possible because there were significant savings in personnel in the administration, non-re-occupied posts of pensioners – this is what every official knows. This has, however, significantly contributed to the slimming of the structures. We need to point out today that the administration is forced to provide more and more and more better services with fewer and fewer staff. Mr Neugebauer has already mentioned this: The Republic is the top service provider. And the top service provider must also ask himself the question: What about the task critique? Because we can't do better or even better with fewer and less staff. – This is a task that we all need to become aware of and wherever we really need to counter it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out an example of those staff savings which are not desirable but which also pose a threat. I am Grazer and I come from a city that has now gained the reputation of a drug capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the savings that have been made by the Graz police in recent years are irresponsible because they endanger the safety of the population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we need in Graz is the re-establishment of the Special Commission on Drug Control, as we had it shortly before the municipal election in 2003. We need this drug commission again in order to be able to continue the fight against drug crime effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few conclusions: Public service is also so good today, because the self-understanding of the staff has changed considerably in recent years. Officials and contract staff increasingly see themselves as service providers. One example of this is that in all parts of the administration, many key figures have been supported not only by the leading officials but by all civil servants. Let me summarize: Public service is modern today, it is efficient, and we can be proud of it. As a Member of Parliament, we are represented by our officials and contract staff, who do a large number of excellent work and whose actions are derived from the laws we decide here in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6929	The next speech is by Mr Dolinschek as a Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6950	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current salary of the public service with a salary increase of 2.35 percent results in a real wage increase of 0.75 percent. Although it is below that of the metallurgical, but clearly above the inflation rate, and the comparison with other collective contractual salary accounts, such as those of the metallurgical, cannot be made one thing here. Other indicators are to be taken into account, such as beekeepers who do not participate in this form in other areas. The increase in salary in the public service is one to which I also call myself, because the public service also contributes a lot to the fact that we in Austria have a very good economic growth, which can also be seen internationally. It has become a linear increase in salary. I would like to say here, perhaps one has also denied a certain opportunity: If one had taken smaller incomes more into account, with base amounts, then this would certainly have been an incentive because it makes sense for distribution policy and for economic reasons that private consumption, which has already been addressed today, would be stronger the purchasing power will be strengthened. The more people earn – and this is especially true in the low-paid sector – the more they spend domestically. No less than the founder of the Ford works, Henry Ford, said at the time: My employees have to earn so much that they can afford the cars we built, because cars don't buy cars. – And this is what it is all about here, and it would have been a chance to raise the small income a little more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it should be taken into account that this would have led to a shift in the structure of salary. But especially in this area – and, Mr Neugebauer, I know that you are building on a reform and that some things will be necessary in the entire public service salary structure and that this is not the same from today on to tomorrow – it would perhaps have been a chance, as I believe, to put in place such a base amount, a measure which, above all the younger workers in the public sector, In most cases, service could have been less worthwhile. I am convinced that in the near future there will be a lot of things going on in the public service sector, so that this will also correspond to the circumstances of the present day, and I am confident that this will happen soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6996	Mr Dr. Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7017	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, I think we have achieved a very balanced conclusion. He'll cost taxpayers €231 million, but it's like I mean, a very well-connected money. Today, it has been praised which services are provided by the public service. There have been many reforms since 2000, and these reforms have been seen from two points of view: increasing the proximity of citizens, civil kindness. And today I get calls again and again, from journalists, for example, who praise – that would never have happened before! – how friendly and how kind they are today, for example, treated at a financial office. You used to be treated as a subject, so you were treated quite differently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point of view, something that has also been achieved: Today, state action is much faster than a few years ago. Why? – We have used massive IT in the reforms, and it does not come about that we have received the prize for the first time this year in the field of eGovernment: We are in Europe leading the computer use in the administration! This, of course, has the effect that standard work, mass labour is done by the computer, and that the individual officials have much more time for inquiries, for information than before, or where fraud in the tax field is concerned, of course, there is also more time to set specific actions. It has been referred to the salary statement and the opinion that perhaps a social component should have been more taken into account, for example, that the basic salaries should have been increased more. We have also discussed this question. The representatives of the Länder and local authorities have opposed It was because it hit her harder, but it was also my opinion that we should not do that. Why shouldn't we do that? – Because we have already implemented reforms in the field of remuneration: We have greatly improved the level from the lowest level to the highest level. In the 1950s, we had a tension relationship between the lowest and the highest relation ratios of 1 : 13. Today, the lowest reference with supplements is about €1 300 and the highest reference is €8 600. That is, we have reduced this ratio from 1: 13 to a ratio of 1: 7. I think there will be further pay reforms in the future. It is necessary to distribute the sum of life's merit differently. One should fall into a higher relation in younger years in which the family is founded, and the curve to the rear should then become flatter. But I think that was a question that could not be answered at this salary conclusion. It was a question of increasing consumer friendliness in order to appreciate the economic impact of the economy, but it was mainly the services provided by the public service. In this sense I would also like to thank you for the great praise that has been expressed here today and for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7068	Furthermore, the government bank from Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel spoke. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7090	High house! As Head of Division, I thank Alfred Finz, who led the negotiations for the Federation. I would also like to make a big compliment from the trade union side of our social partners Fritz Neugebauer, Richard Holzer and Christian Meidlinger, who led the negotiations for the municipal staff. It was very fast negotiations this time, but it was still hard negotiations, because the situation is such that the inflation rate is currently 1.1 percent, and the distance to the key conclusion of the metallers has become much smaller this time. So we have to say that this is a result that can certainly be seen in the sense of the officials in the public service, which is an excellently negotiated one and which also provides the basis for a great deal of activity in this area. But it is also a great thank you at a time when the public service, staff representatives and trade unionists have also brought a lot of positive things. Alfred Finz pointed out some of the major structural reforms. We have modernised, we have distributed, we have summarized very large areas such as police and gender army, we have distributed the universities, the financial management has been completely restructured. We have introduced the electronic act in all departments. You mentioned that for all these measures, including the e-card, Mr Graf, who has become an international demonstration project, we have received 1 out of all 25 and soon 27 EU Member States at European level. [[towards Secretary of State Dr. Finz]] This is so thanks to the services of the public service! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It should also be noted that – and it was not natural – a social partnership agreement with the trade unions was found in the pension reform, for example, in the sense that we have been since 1. January 2005 has a uniform pension right and there are only common expectations for the future, regardless of whether someone is an official, farmer, worker, employee, politician or whatever. This is a great compliment for the sense of responsibility The trade union Public Service, which is close to the people, can also be very good at the same time. As the example of civil servants' social security, BVA, was mentioned earlier: By the way, this is one of the few social insurance institutions in the self-government that actively behaves. At this point you should also return this to the leadership of the BVA as a compliment. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] One more point: Public service is not only interesting because the proximity of customers to the individual citizen becomes very easily felt, but also because working conditions in the public service have to be a model for the other world of work. Take, for example, the compatibility of work and family, the possibility of childcare: We created farm kindergartens. Take back the possibility of taking care of, the possibility of part-time, which, I believe, has been set up as an example in the public service. In particular, consider the issue of equal treatment for men and women: Women have the same career opportunities in the public service, and above all the principle of equal pay for equal work is absolutely lived right here. A model for other social partners' organisations! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I would also like to thank personally, as Federal Chancellor and Head of Government, the officials at federal, national and local level, at all levels for the EU Presidency. That was a huge challenge! It was not just such a subject that there were few politicians at the forefront, but the main work was done by the officials, which was excellently coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think we can be proud of this achievement. 2.35 percent, that's a good conclusion. But he is also a thank you for the achievements in the past and a hope for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7156	The next speech is by Mrs Riener. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7177	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finz, State Secretary! I am standing here today to take a position on the salary conclusion from the point of view of national staff. As some of you know, I am a national staff representative, and this is also my concern. I would like to thank the Chancellor very much for his appreciative words. It does so well to hear national officials and public servants. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is on and on his own Usus that national officials or municipal officials take over the federal salary. The appreciation given to it is only a part of it. I would like to quote an extract from a letter from Mayor Nagl to his staff, in which he writes in spite of the difficult situation in Graz: “We do this,” the salary increase decides, “with good conscience. After all, your daily performance and commitment are the ones that the company Magistrat Graz carries and makes it a modern service-oriented service provider for our citizens. While money is not the only motivation we can give you as an employer, it is still an important incentive and an Expression of appreciation and thanks for your work done.” – I can’t add anything to it. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let me turn the clocks back a year. We had our own situation there. Through media, the new staff councillor Hirt directed us that the salary for the national staff should be 2.5 percent. After tough negotiations, nothing else was on the table. It is only through joint informal discussions of all trade unions that I would like to say – and since it is also important that social partners work – that it was finally possible – and in March 2006 it was clear that national staff also receive 2.7 percent. In the meantime, we have had talks with the Hirt National Councillor in a very correct way, especially because of this – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has mentioned it – because there is a lot being prepared in the Federation. In the Styrian national service, we have launched salary reform and service law reform. We changed the salaries. The last time we received a fixed amount of 2.7 per cent of the fixed amount, we had a fixed amount with a unit amount. We have been together this year, and I am glad to be able to report that the national staff will also receive 2.35 percent. This means that, in the end, a fair handling – as it is repeated again and again – has come to fruition here. I refer to the motto of our national chairman. Günther Lipptic: It's important to get on with each other without being medial, then good can come out. . I believe that this would also be a motto for some of the negotiations currently under way, including in committee form.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7235	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Mr President, I would like to put the clock on the four minutes required. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7256	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finz, State Secretary! I think we should leave Graz now, otherwise we will have another Nagl debate. But we can pick up the nail sample elsewhere. – First of all, the pay schedule is on the tapet. Yes, this is an increase that we will not refuse our consent. This has already gone through. However, no one has responded to Mr Rossmann's suggestions that we could also change the structure of salaries in the public service. Mr State Secretary, now you have held back noble, but in the Committee you have already reflected and said this: For God's sake, if it were something we argue with, then the structure of the pay scheme would change; the structure would change, O God! – It could have been the goal of changing the structure. I can now get to the fast. Your example of calculation does not understand that the ratio between the smallest and the largest incomes would have been reduced from 1 : 13 to 1 : 7. However, if you add the allowances to the lower income and leave them at the top – at least you have “precipitated” it – then this is probably not comparable. By the way, Mr Bundeskanzler, this argument is similar to what you have argued about the comparability with the salaries of women in the public service. It is true that there is still the best in the area of income shears, but this is also the result of logic, and everything else would be even more unbearable! However, the point is that even here there is not complete equality, namely over the payment systems. Finally, it is also – hopefully soon again – about looking at who has ever been used on what position. There are, of course, still there. In the public service even more to release that women's chances rise, that would still be a command of the hour. Because if you look at the entire income structure within the public service, then you will see that the sheer is of course just as present, if even smaller. It is not the same as you argued, but this is also due to the tasks assigned to the persons. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] No, that's right. You only have to distinguish between the pay for a particular job and that for the field of activity for which the persons are employed. Then it is not so hard to understand. Mr Finz, it is striking in our country that you always emphasize an area from the so-called administrative reform: the reform of the financial administration, the financial offices. Yes, there have been some good approaches. However, especially in the field of tax fraud – not the fight against fraud in general, but especially the fight against tax fraud – we hear something different from what you want to announce here in the large company audits et cetera. This reform has not been successful with God everywhere! Finally, I must refer to the reference – which has to do with public servants anyway – which was so salopply incorporated into Mrs Fekter's speech: The work in the Committee of Inquiry and the contributions of individuals, including myself, would be slanderous and otherwise anything. There I have to... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure! When you calculate...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] No, I'm sorry! Look, I'm not the one who's yelling for orders. I don't like that, because I think that's anachronistic. [[Ironic Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] But one thing needs to be made clear, Mr President. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Federal Chancellor! What do you mean, that's unacceptable? Excuse me, I would like you at least at the end of your term of office to not always come back from behind me. I think it's unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7353	Mr President, I would ask you to continue the speech, and I would now ask all of you to pay a little attention to it. Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7378	If it is so – and this has been said before – that public servants can also represent cabinet members, depending on the design of the contract, I note that there have never been so many cabinet members in any time before, who have been sent as bank commissioners who get their bread there – aproposing salary scheme! – which often Do not do anything about it, and that such people are also in the cabinet of the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7416	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – I ask all ladies and gentlemen to take a seat! Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:13:11]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 27/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Victim Care Act, the Military Care Act, the Vaccination Act and the Crime Victim Law, the Pension Act 1965 and the Federal Railway Pension Act (2. Social law amendment law 2006 – 2. CONTRACT 2006) (8 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7474	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first Member of Parliament, Mr Oellinger has spoken with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7502	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning: Yes, I am glad that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy and also of the ÖVP, have followed the green excuse, the compensatory allowances, i.e. the minimum pensions, to raise the poverty threshold. Yes, that is good, and we Greens are of course in favour of it, because it was a green proposal that was implemented here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Let's say it was together!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is! I have followed this very closely, even if you are interested in this: The debate on increasing the compensatory allowances has only begun when we drew attention to this: If they are not increased, then the compensation allowances remain below the poverty risk threshold, and then we all have a huge problem, or any government, but also politics as a whole. The big problem is easy to sketch. It is actually quite unworthy of a country that has a certain wealth if the minimum pensions are not so high that they protect it from poverty. This is a situation that we have had over and over again in recent years, even if I quite agree with the ÖVP that in recent years – but with debilitating efforts – it has still tried to take this into account at least. But, honestly, we know that the compensatory allowances should have been adjusted for a long time. The last time they have been raised to 800 or 12 months, we have already brought this into the debate: Actually, the increase should be higher so that we follow the poverty risk threshold. Nevertheless, we would like to agree because it was also our concern to increase compensation allowances, not only for individuals but also for families. That's good, that's especially helpful, but not only the women who are particularly affected. But now it's the real point. We have had a debate in Parliament in recent weeks – on the occasion of the special meeting, but also beyond – in which, first of all, it was quite clear to all parties that pensions should be increased according to a pensioner price index. There have also been appropriate applications for this purpose. And in recent weeks and months we have had a debate in which it has also been made clear that, beyond all the need to do something in the pension system, we cannot permanently reduce pensioners who do not have very high pensions. But this has been the case over the last five or six years! Pensions have on average been reduced by 8 percent since 2000. Yes, Mr Westenthaler, even if you shake your head: That was so! And that was not good, Mr. Westenthaler! Even if you remove yourself for calling now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's a huge problem! It is not about the fact that pensioners in this country would not have been willing to make a sacrifice even once. But, Federal Chancellor – he's not here right now – it's not like you said: We in Austria are great people, we can increase pensions in the next year according to the inflation rate, while other countries will not make inflation adjustment or adjustment until 2010. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP and of the BZÖ! In the last five, six years, the value of pensions has been reduced by a total of 8 per cent. That's not little! People who entered the ASVG with a maximum pension in 2000 – and I consider the pension, even though it appears quite high at 2,300 or 2,400 € grossly, not for an extremely high pension – have since gone unabated and lost much more: They lost over 10 percent and now have grossly no maximum pensions as they had when they got in. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge problem, and I also see the real problem in this proposal that you are now considering. You increase by 1.6 percent, you give a one-time amount that does not involve in the value and value of the pension for the next year. That is, with the classification you propose here, you continue the unsavory tradition of recent years, that you start to reduce pensions of one time over €700, once over € 1,000, once from €600. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and also of the SPÖ! These are not high pensions that have been shortened in recent years. If a pension of more than €700 is no longer adjusted, then the people who already have to live of €700 or €750 can no longer take part in social life, just as Mr. Federal Chancellor, but also the representatives of SPÖ, have requested in recent years and also in recent weeks. We have a real problem in the pension system, and also with the pension adjustment, as you have now decided, you do not correct it, but you remain far behind the expectations we, but also the pensioners, have placed in you, especially at the address of social democracy. To be honest: As far as the pension increase for 2007 is concerned, as far as the core of the pension system is concerned, you have fallen, ladies and gentlemen, from Social Democracy! The 1.9 percent, not much more – and that is not much – would have been justified. You have to explain to the SPÖ why you didn't do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7565	The next item is Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Gusenbauer, with a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7587	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, I think it is not a great cause for sadness today when we discuss pensions. If we keep track of the outcome that we will have in Parliament today, I hope we will decide: All Austrian pensioners receive at least 1.6% of the interest rate. Everyone! 80 per cent of all pensioners, i.e. those with a pension of up to €1 380 per month, receive a pension increase of 1.9 per cent, i.e. a cover of the price increases. We note that all pensioners who have a lower pension than €1,000 receive an increase that is higher than 2 percent. And we also note that the increase in the compensation allowance, that is de facto the minimum pension, is more than 5 percent, from 690 € to 726 €. That is 36 € per month or 504 € in addition to Austria for the poorest of the poor among pensioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's good!]] I think this is an extremely reasonable result, because it will mean that no pensioner, no pensioner in Austria will be below the poverty threshold, under the poverty threshold, which is set at 60% of the median income. It also means that, because of the social staggering we have performed, the smaller pensions are significantly higher than the higher pensions. [[Abg. Oils: One-time amount!]] Yes, this is nevertheless a contribution to social justice. I already understand the systematic arguments, they are already aware of me, but the fact is that, if you see what the pensioners will get more in 2007, this will be extremely nice Christmas for the pensioners, because this is a pension increase that is not only the expensive but also a great social progress. And I am glad that we will be able to do this in Parliament today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have also tried to look at the statistics. The increase in the minimum pension, i.e. the compensatory allowance, by 36 €, is nominally the highest carried out throughout the history of our country and, as a percentage, the highest increase in the compensation allowance since 1994. That is to say, we are taking a real step in combating poverty here, that especially those people who can no longer help themselves alone in the sense of additional incomes, get a pension from us in Austria, which is a dignified pension. Since many of the older people also expect in the old currency: At €726, the minimum pension is the first time the 10 000-S limit. Let us remember how high the minimum pensions used to be and what a 10 000 S pension used to be! I think this is a result which is extremely good in social policy and a result that is also reasonable in terms of overall responsibility, because it is not free of charge. This total package costs more than €600 million, but this is at a time when wages are rising sharply due to a good economic development. Our view of solidarity is that pensions should also increase to a greater extent, because the older generation in our country should also have a share of value added. That's why I think: This is an extremely good package, an important step against poverty in our country, extraordinarily justified and good in terms of distribution policy and, I believe, a standard to which you can say an open heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7677	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Strache with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really sad to have to experience this today, because we all remember the last special session that we have requested from the liberals to ensure social justice for 33 percent of our society, especially for our pensioners, for our seniors. In the last five years, these seniors and pensioners have lost. They have been reduced by pension increases which have not even covered the inflation rate. In the end, we've been in a pension class that we've shown. Today, we would have had the historic opportunity to show social responsibility to this population group at last, to cover the losses of the last five years and also to increase pensions by at least 1.9 percent in the sense of a pensionist price index, which is also required by the elderly associations – and Mr Karl Blecha, who has also supported it, will not be unknown to you. As part of the special meeting, we had almost a majority corresponding to a concentration government: All parties voted for 1.9 percent as a minimum compromise. And now you've fallen by again. Now, social democracy has fallen, has been laid down in chains, has now clearly proved that it can be performed by Dr. Schüssel at the nose ring, and not of about one has the impression that Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer has been put to work as a coach in front of the ÖVP car, because otherwise I can't explain this to myself, and that shows this example. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With 1.6 per cent we want to dispense the pensioners now, although social democracy has also negotiated a compromise with us in the context of the special session in the interest of pensioners, which Karl Blecha also publicly supported. He's got it. Publicly stated: Of course, one should see that at least those who receive up to €1 350 in pension receive the 2.2 percent increase that those who are above receive at least 1.9 percent, namely the pension price index adjustment, and will ensure that you get at least €36. It would have been socially fair, but you fell down unfortunately. Unfortunately, you are not the social engine that you are pretending to be, but the opposite of it and are now playing with this bad policy, which ÖVP and BZÖ have to account for in recent years. That's what you're doing. That's why I'm not saying for no reason: The impression is that you are now supporting a minority government of ÖVP and BZÖ. This is interesting, because the SPÖ has no ministers, but it now supports the policy of the ÖVP/BZÖ government, which is still in office, also on this issue. That's disappointing. Karl Blecha from the Pensionist Association will rightly be disappointed because his group has basically fallen back on him and also the pensioners. I also dare to doubt that Mr Khol will be able to explain to his pensioners in the senior government. Many will have no understanding. In this case, we rightly represent the interests of pensioners who, unfortunately, are not satisfied with today's request. The increase in the compensatory allowance rate, which we have already requested in our special meeting with a motion for a resolution, has been an initiative of ours. This is the minimum one has to make sure that there is an increase here. But in the other areas you can only find disappointed that you have fallen by the SPÖ. If you want to bring this sarcastic to the point, you can only notice: Now the pensioners get less. For years, in recent years, social democracy has rightly called for every pension debate to increase pensions by at least one percentage point more than the Federal Government has proposed, and now that one has had the historic opportunity to finally fulfill that, one has missed them, has not been able to use them, has been playful and has forgiven them. This is a sad circumstance to show. The ÖVP can apparently make it possible to draw the SPÖ in terms of content one tooth after another. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain. Apparently, it is now real-life policy that, in the course of the coalition negotiations of the SPÖ, the ÖVP draws a social-political tooth each day, so that it can come to such situations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now the pensioners are getting less than the pensioner price index would require, and with this scheme, again for next year the increase is not guaranteed according to the pensioner price index, because the one-time payment you are planning is not used for accounting. Now you very sarcastically do not want to relieve the pensioners with plus 1.6 percent again and do not give them what they need. Instead, you will supply them with extra fur spatters so that at least their feet don't have to freeze because they can't afford the heating costs. This is a very, very sad circumstance that we shall point out. A great social policy opportunity has been missed, and since we are also representing the group of pensioners, we will ensure that they are informed of the actions of the political competitors represented here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7774	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Molterer's word. I put the clock on the desired 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7795	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We can now clearly look forward to an hourly remake, because I have heard Mr Strache's speech today. At each item on the agenda, the same speech comes with a small amendment. [[Abg. Strache: Yes, the truth hurts!]] I do not understand this by creative parliamentaryism. Mr Strache, if you had really done something serious about pensions, there would have been a request from the FPÖ in the Committee on Budgets yesterday. [[Abg. Street: We'll make a request anyway!]] There has not even been a request in the Committee on Budgets on the part of the FPÖ yesterday. We could not even vote on something because nothing has been there from your side, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I guess there was an application that you voted against!]] I think we can actually present a very good result today, a good result for the Austrian pensioners. It is not easy, ladies and gentlemen, for politics to handle this tension that lies within the generation treaty, and it must be said that we have on the one hand policies for pensioners, but on the other hand we must not ignore the interests of active contributors and young people. And I believe that we have dealt with this field of tension with this proposal, which we will adopt today with a broad majority of parliamentarians, in an excellent way. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the colleagues of the BZÖ, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and the colleagues in Social Democracy, because we have also provided proof that we can create a good regime across party borders in the interests of Austria. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP, the BZÖ and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Abg. There's no one claping!]] Ladies and gentlemen! 1.6% for all pensioners is the guarantee to which we confess ourselves. So everyone knows what we're talking about: After all, this is an amount of €460 million, which – thank God – is only spent on value assurance. Ladies and gentlemen! We have changed and improved a second element on the basis of the government proposal on the basis of the Committee's proposal, and, Mr Oellinger, I am honouring it, in that we are socially staggering the additional amount. Mr Oellinger, I am already asking you out of your social responsibility. I think that these two elements – the linear adjustment in the sense of security of value and the one-time amount of social security – are necessary in order to eliminate social symmetry. Why? – Because a linear increase in small pensions in absolute amounts is logically less than for large pensions. When it comes to ensuring the guarantee of value for small pensions, including in absolute numbers, the social retirement rate between €60 and €25 is absolutely correct depending on the amount of pension. We should also discuss the question of the pensioner index, precisely in the light of the effect of a linear pension increase versus a socially graded one, and this in the light of a justification for justice. I know that not everyone likes to hear this, but it's to say, and I say it quite openly: We should ask ourselves whether the development of indices for individual population groups does not involve the following problem, and no one can conclude the discussion: We will then have the discussion of why there is no youth index, why there is no women's index, why there is no driver's index. This raises the question of whether this development does not involve the germ of a new unolidarian development. I think this question is so important that we have to deal very seriously with it here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the point of view of the Austrian People's Party, it is true that we have found the right balance with this socially staged one-off payment, and we have acted correctly in the sense of combating poverty with the special consideration of the compensation guidelines, namely their disproportionate increase. After all, ladies and gentlemen, since 1999, these individual guidelines have been – and we can be proud of them together – from € 589, Mr. Strache, to €726 from now on. January was raised by 23 percent in these years, because it is a particular concern of us by the Austrian People's Party to act in the sense of combating poverty. This also concerns the family directive, which was raised by 30 per cent over the period – by 30 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Demonstrative applause of Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Ing. Westenthaler.]] This is social responsibility, which is social policy, which should be continued especially in the interests of combating poverty. Finally, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is not enough to be proud of what we achieved yesterday with this decision-making, but we must also say that what we are sometimes distributing here with great enthusiasm must also be achieved. That is why I say to you: We can afford this because we have managed well and because, on this good basis, a sound economic development can be expected even in the next few years. We can afford this, ladies and gentlemen, because we have finally had the courage to reform. We are being increased, while in Germany by 2010, in the UK, it cannot be increased until 2012. We can afford to do so, ladies and gentlemen, because we have made a sound budgetary policy and have thus also provided the scope for it. We have created this future orientation with the three-pillar model, and no one in this House – and I attach great importance to the People's Party – can evade the responsibility of lasting and sustainable responsibility for complying with the generation agreement. Our task is to make policy for the elderly in this country, but also to take account of the fact that young people and contributors of course cannot only be disregarded, but also articulate their concerns with the same right. This is a policy of social balance, which is social responsibility policy, ladies and gentlemen, and we have today complied with this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7905	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7928	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Mag. Molterer, I guess. The social symmetry out of dispute was your demand. Before I put something out of dispute – and putting out a demand from the ÖVP is always a danger that has been shown here in recent years – do I wonder what you mean by social symmetry? Almost in the same breath, explain how one comes to this idea – which is obviously deviating in your eyes – to calculate a pensioner index. That's just as good a driver's index! How do you understand that? Do you want to put all the serious things here and say: It is not legitimate to think about how the average pensioner – addressed to Mr. Strache's address: perhaps it is up to you that there is not only a pensioner in, but also a pensioner in and there is the problem – with a pension of 750, 800 or 850 € to cope with the price of the last years!? – Mr Strache, you can now look very hard into your papers, but in your paper you will not find an answer under guarantee! [[Abg. Strache pages in written documents]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Go, please!]] In recent years, you have contributed from the coalition parties to real reductions in the order between 5 and 10 percent, but today you stand here and say: We are great, we increase by 1.6 percent! By the way, there is little differentiation in the assessment between ÖVP and SPÖ: Mr. Klubobmann Molterer of the ÖVP called this a “good result”. – I suppose that is a good result because the basic structure of the ÖVP/BZÖ/FPÖ-pension reform has not been questioned, you feel confirmed and feel that it must be sufficient to ensure that people in the pension do not get below the poverty line as a success. I'll tell you: In my opinion, it should be natural in a rich country like Austria to ensure that people in the pension at least cross the poverty line. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, I find the choice of words by Dr. Gusenbauer: Your euphoria is not understandable to me at best if, in the face of a 1.6 percent increase in pensions and these one-off payments, you are still talking about the need for a pension increase of at least 1.9 percent, in view of the fact that you have been here today in your own request, which you have postponed in the Committee – which is quite embarrassing – and say that this has achieved a “great social policy progress”. If “great social progress” of the SPÖ looks forward to the election, I do not even dare to imagine how good results you will have in the coalition negotiations will look forward to. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For everyone – perhaps even in the SPÖ – who still believes that an increase of 1.9 percent, as has been said in your request, would actually be the command of the hour, whereby we believe from the Greens that this is only a minimum, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to consider again whether it would be necessary, in your opinion, to make this increase in pensions. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (a edition of the “standard” to the height) This is the headline: Highest pension increase...!]] A note now also to increase the compensatory allowances. I don't know if You have forgotten this or do you really believe that it would not be necessary to increase the guidelines for widows and orphans in the same section as well. This was about €5 million for the government budget, which would make up such an increase, but a lot of social security for the widowed and orphans pensioners affected. – €5 million, which is probably what Mrs Social Minister Haubner spends loosely for her advertising campaigns a year. [[Abg. Oils: At least!]] I do not have the current figures now, but my colleague, Mr Oellinger, would certainly be able to list them exactly. – An increase in widow's and orphan's pension cannot be paid! It can't be like that either. You just say: We forgot, we didn't know! You still have the opportunity to increase this right now – I felt it was urgently necessary. And remember: The biggest sufferers of your pension reform were women – and with this 1.6 percent, they get very little again!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8072	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Weinzinger by Mrs Ollinger, friends and friends on the increase in pensions in 2007 is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8158	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to § 58 of the Rules of Procedure and ask you to begin to reflect the claim to be corrected and to compare it with the corrected case. No political values! 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8182	Mr President. Mr Molterer here claimed from the speaker's desk that the Freedom Party would not have made any such request at yesterday's meeting of the Budget Committee, which dealt with the subject of pension adjustment. – This claim is incorrect! The Freedom Party submitted the following request to the Budget Committee: “1. The total monthly pension income is adjusted up to €1 350 with 1.9 per cent, above which with a fixed amount (€45). 2. People with a total monthly pension income of less than €1 350 will receive an increase of 0.3 per cent per month.” – So 2.2 per cent. We made this request yesterday to the Committee on Budgets. However, ÖVP and SPÖ have rejected this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8223	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8244	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Graf, colleagues from the FPÖ: Compare this with the request made by the last special meeting, with Mr Strache's request here again, which was this famous "Asterix proposal". [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're linked!]] Not much of this has been left, because this request was not only incomplete, but because it has forgotten a huge number of people in our country, such as the “small” police and professional firemen or, for example, the federal army. [[Abg. Street: Wrong! That's wrong what you're saying!]] You all forgot about them! But I don't want to go on with your blamable idea at this special meeting now. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Just a small example, because you, Mr. Strache, always claim there is no pension increase by 1.9 percent: 1.6% plus the one-time payment we decide on, that's far more than 1.9 percent, especially for the smaller pensions. [[Abg. Bitch: All the wrong things you're saying!]] That is why this is a very, very good solution. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] - Just don't get upset! But it's a shame that you don't go along with the really highest increase in pensions in recent years. Mr Gusenbauer (S). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Gusenbauer for his excellent report. But today is a good day for the Austrian pensioners – and this decision-making is indeed an improvement in the financial situation of pensioners. Of course, we like to hear such a message during the pre-Christmas season, but we also expect it to be implemented immediately after Christmas, because what the compensatory allowances, what the minimum pension is about, will today be adopted “only” – under quotation marks” – a motion for a resolution. I would therefore be permitted here to direct Mr Matznetter, the Minister for Finance, at least by himself: It would also be appropriate for you to be a little less small, but more generous when it comes to parliamentarianism – and not to be upset in the committee that a party wants to support a request and bring it together with others! I think that your excitement is a bit strange. We from the BZÖ stand for this: We are in favour of increasing minimum pensions by this amount and will therefore agree to this request because we believe it is good to resist the social warmth of the home at a time of globalized cold. Therefore – again –: We are in favour and will agree. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It was at all an hour of parliamentarianism that we were able to discuss and improve on the basis of a government proposal in committee. This one-time payment can really be described as fair, especially with regard to smaller pensions. It is therefore good that three parties agreed that a broad majority could agree on this increase. We also see this as a representative of an even younger generation as an obligation for the older generation that, with this increase we will decide today, we show the elderly that we are actually caring for them, while also showing responsibility for the overall budget and helping the pensioners of Austria to your right. – This is guaranteed by this highest increase in recent years. We should not forget, however, that we have always acted very responsibly in recent years, especially as regards minimum pensions. It has now been proved that the minimum pensions have been increasing since 2000, as was not the case under any government, i.e. by 20 percent. The minimum pensions have increased by 20 percent since 2000, so that it is now the case that we have the third highest minimum pension in Europe in Austria. This is an achievement that this government can hold for the benefit of – and if you are fair, you have to mention it here too. It is good that we have shown that we have always taken care of those who don't have so much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, we have also put in place various measures in other areas, for example, I am allowed to charge child rearing periods for the pension, four years per child. This is also a very important measure that we have taken in our time of government since 2000. A total of € 5.8 billion in five years – from 2001 to 2006 – were spent on pensions, and that is all right. What you should not forget in this context: With the 2005 tax reform, essential measures were put in place to relieve pensioners of € 450 million. At the beginning of 2005, pensioners are not allowed to pay – and this is not to be underestimated – up to an annual income of €13 500 no more wage and income tax at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, you laugh at it, but: This was an essential measure to relieve people with lower incomes! If you are laughing at the Chamber of Deputies, I can only say: Good night, Austria, if you, Dr. Matznetter, should really come into a responsible position and perhaps, as a possible finance minister, delete these achievements again! We don't want that, we want to avoid that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany, the amount of pension has been frozen for three years – in Austria, on the other hand, pensions have been legally insured. We have been aware of this internationally, there have been many international comments in the neighbouring countries of Austria in which our pension reform and pension policy have been praised and honoured in recent years. This should not be forgotten in this discussion, even with all the appreciation of the present solution. In the future, however, improvements will have to be made where it is necessary. That is why here in the House, too, the request to increase the care allowance by 5 percent and that we make one very quick – I am glad that we will discuss this request before Christmas – because winter is at the door, that is to say, finally impose a uniform heating allowance, especially for those households – and there are again a lot of pensioners – who cannot afford to do so. Just think of the enormous price explosion in the energy sector, which is to be compensated for by a single national heating system! That is what we want, and in this context we have proposed 150 €. I hope that this proposal will also be very, very constructively discussed in the Committee, that a majority will be in favour of it before Christmas, so that it will also be a good message before Christmas, that low incomes will receive a heating grant before the coming cold winter. I think that would be necessary and correct. This is just as true as our idea of the mother's allowance, from which we don't go, where we don't let go, that those mothers who couldn't buy retirement periods – about 170 000 over 60-year-old women – are allowed to pay a mother's allowance, as it was implemented and already paid out in Carinthia. [[Abg. Strache: But you have rejected our request!]] It can't be so difficult to finance and implement such a thing throughout the country. That is an idea, that is something we have been demanding for many, many months, and we will not let go of it here in the House! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very, very good measure today, and I therefore find it all the more sad that Greens and FPÖ do not agree with this very good, this fair and fair increase in pensions, especially this very, very high addition to the minimum pensions. [[Abg. Strache: This is a pension class!]] [[Abg. Oils: That's what the right one is talking!]] [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of the speaker) Backbone cannot be bought!]] Obviously, the party policy of FPÖ and Greens is still more important to you than government responsibility, but above all responsibility to the older generations of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8415	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8437	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Gusenbauer, you were at the Austrian Pensionist Association two days ago and thanked 400 delegates there for their use for the Republic of Austria in general as well as especially for the one for the SPÖ in the election campaign. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's right!]] “Thanks to this,” Schiller would say, “I don’t want to!” because you, Dr. Gusenbauer, have been hard on these people today to betray and sell! What Karl Blecha wrote about in the last few weeks in order to find a hearing for the pensioners of Austria – and Blecha made this cross-party – and to move for this something in our country, you are leading, Dr. Gusenbauer, with today's ad absurdum! Today is a black day for parliamentarianism, a black day for pensioners, as 32 percent of the total population is being pulled over the table today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go, stop!]] How, when it comes to pension increases, people in our country are being dealt with, is quite a moral picture of politics in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today's decision is to sacrifice the pensioners of Austria, 32 percent of the total population on the altar coalitionary talks – perhaps also, Dr. Gusenbauer, in order to become the prize, German chancellor, even if this may only be short-lived. The SPÖ has become unfaithful not only to the Pensionist Association, but to all the people of this country! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What you're talking about!]] Karl Blecha argued that 45 percent of all pensioners had given confidence to SPÖ; 36 percent of the ÖVP. This is a high percentage, but all these people have failed you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, today! A 1.6% increase in pensions is exactly what everyone in the Council of Seniors did not want. All senior representatives there have clearly and unanimously expressed their support for a pensionist price index adjustment, an increase of 1.9 percent as a minimum requirement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's just a trickery to say now: With 1.6% and a little added value, we can then reach 1.9 percent of pension increase! It's a trickery! The people of our country have not deserved this to be a bit bitter every year! That must not be true! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Karl Blecha formulated this very well by saying: 1.6 percent and 40, 45 €, these are felt-patches, but because they are 40 €, they are equipped with lamb fur, so it is nice warm in winter; ten cups of tea in the Café Landtmann are these! [[Abg. Lens: heating aid!]] This is the “social benefit” that you want from ÖVP and SPÖ to send to the pensioners of our country! 10.3 percent loss of value was in the years 2000 to 2005, but only a 6-percent adjustment of pensions, i.e. a loss of value of 4.3 percent! In this respect, the Chamber of Labour has found a real loss of €93 per month. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you are making a policy of announcement, as it has never been! Mr Scheibner, it is my conviction that pure cynicism is happening when you stand out here today and make great announcement that there is a 3.2 percent growth forecast for the economy of Austria for the next few years. That is beautiful, because the diligent people of our country have achieved this, only if you, Mr Scheibner, say today that this forecast is 3.2 per cent, but at the same time only 1.6 per cent of the pension increase is left for the elderly, that is really nothing but pure cynicism! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution - we have put it in good time - and I will therefore quote it briefly: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is asked to take all measures to ensure that the following pension adjustment can be made for 2007: 1. The total monthly pension income will be adjusted up to €1 350 with 1.9 per cent, with a fixed amount (€45); 2. People with a total monthly pension income of less than €1 350 receive an increase of 0.3 percent per month in addition to 1.9 per cent. The Federal Government is also asked to use the pensioner price index for the calculation of the total monthly pension income in the future. I'm looking for you: Show courage for the pensioners who have earned this – and join our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8552	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, Mr Strache, Mr Graf, has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8626	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8649	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if, as it seems, we decide on a good overall package for the elderly, then I am very happy, because finally, for the coming year, pensioners will once have security about what they get, the security that they will have on 1. Januaryen received a general pension increase of 1.6 percent, a guarantee of value that we have legally guaranteed them since 2005, and that they will receive an additional one-off payment, which is now more staged than was originally proposed. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] In principle, I think that a seasoning, which takes particular account of particularly small pensioners, is a good one. So far, we have had a limit at the half-maximum contribution base of approximately €1 902, and from this value we have increased with a fixed amount; now we have introduced a staggering. At the time, I have always said that this maximum contribution base – the half-maximum contribution base of 1,900 – is justified because over 90 percent of pensioners are affected by it. And now, if I look at the numbers at this staggering, this three-story, I find that we're exactly coming up with these numbers. Here 92.8 per cent of pensioners with small pensions, average pensions up to €1900 are particularly favoured by the maximum contribution base in the form of single payments: One-time payments that have always existed in the past, which are now and which will probably also be available in the future, because they are a special thank you to the older generation as well as to the fact that they have also contributed and cooperated in the general prosperity. I am also glad that there is a further increase in the compensation allowance. We raised this for the first time in the previous year with the individual referees. We have just raised the Family Directive out of the way in 2003. Although I do not want to compare here and say that it is the highest and largest adjustment that has ever been made, with an extra-tourist increase – I think it is not the time to stress this, because people are happy when they get something – but we raised the family directive by €65.4 in 2003. This was very important for couples, for families at the time. That is why today's decision will be one that shows that social responsibility, which has been exercised for the older generation in recent years, will also apply for the coming year, and I hope, also for the coming government. We have taken a very right and sustainable path by giving pensioners an adequate financial guarantee of the evening of life in the long term and for the future. This is a responsibility that we must continue to assume in the future. However, we have also said that those who provide special social services should also be particularly favoured in the pension. And that is why an important step has been to increase child rearing to four years, i.e. a doubling, and I think that in a next step we must also consider that there are social benefits such as family care, which should also be taken into account for retirement periods accordingly. That is necessary, that is fair, and this, of course, always concerns women in the future. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] I also believe that if we continue to take a responsible path for the older generation, not only is financial security important for pensions, but it is time to link a good package for care and care care. On the one hand, financial security is ensured by increasing the care allowance, but on the other hand there are many things that need to be merged here. I believe that a federal uniform care plan, which ensures the older generation as well as the possibility of being able to grow old in the future, is a command of the hour. A third area that is very important to me as a generation politician: that the older generation can continue to participate actively in life and share in social life. And that is why it is necessary to force lifelong learning, the education of the elderly, and to increase the active contribution to education and learning, because the older generation has a great potential, has a great know-how that it can also pass on to the disciples. We have already done a lot of things in the past legislative period, and I think it is also very good to build on it in this area. For me, therefore, pension policy, seniority policy, on the one hand, is borne by financial security in the pension, by a sustainable care, but also by an active participation in society. A lot has been done here – and here you can do a lot. And that's why I'm saying: It's a good day for the older generation today, because we don't discuss for long, but today we decide something that everyone will do from 1. ==References== He also felt in his wallet on February 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8713	Mr Matznetter has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8735	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Let's perhaps start with the BZÖ, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler! Six years of government, first ÖVP/FPÖ and with the same actors ÖVP/BZÖ [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! That's wrong!]] At this time, not only have you been responsible for the real cuts already listed by my previous speakers, but you have also carried out the worst intervention, namely the 2003 pension reform – a pension reduction reform – together with the ÖVP. – So with all praise for new steps: The past was not in the interest of the seniors. At this point I would like to clarify a few things. What's changed? ==References== October this year, the people of that policy, which has so far been dominating, no longer gave a majority, and the first effect – the first effect! – people can see in this common arrangement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you also lost voices!]] And I would like to explain it in figures, because often the question comes: If there are 1.9 percent, is there a higher amount? The fact is, beyond the inflation rate of 1.6 percent – this is also for Mrs Mag. Weinzinger – the additional amount is 110 million, including the increase in the compensation allowance of 162 million €. These are 1,97 per cent, Mrs Colleague, with increases in the form of one-off payment, and if the increase in compensation is taken into account, 2.15 per cent. [[Abg. Sburny: And next year?]] – Take pleasure with us that after the years of real cuts, there will be more money for the first time beyond the inflation rate! – Part one. The joy of Dr. For this reason, Gusenbauer is entitled to a very large group of people, for 229,000 pensioners, not only to cross this magical border of the 10 000 S at last, but thus to a total of one million vulnerable people, we have made sure that pensioners get over the poverty threshold. But our task is not done. Unfortunately, we did. October 2006 did not receive the absolute majority, otherwise our law would have been drawn up in such a way that these people could no longer fall under the poverty threat threshold in the future. Of course, we would have set the pensioner directive for the years 2008 and the following even today. [[Abg. Oils: A majority exists!]] But we have not given up this project, the negotiations are continuing. As you have correctly stated, our request is not rejected, it is adjourned. And we will not give up this fight because there is a right of people to stay at least their pension rights. And even though Mr Mag. There's no such thing as Molterer. Of course, in such a large group, attention must be paid to what their daily expenditure is. And, of course, one will have to use the special pension price index, because pensioners must satisfy their needs with the pension, pay their heating costs, bear their health costs, which are not covered by social security – cures, significantly increased prescription fees and so on by the previous government. And that is why the development of the purchasing power of the seniors is different from the width of the population. We have not given up this project, we will continue to work for it. This is what social democracy stands for, and we have the first great success today: 230,000 people no longer at risk of poverty and an increase of 2.17 percent in total pensions. Let us be pleased with the people that the politics of the past is now turning to the better! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8824	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8846	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today everything in all, naturally, outweighs joy and does not outweigh the problems. The latter has now been particularly heard from the freedom of movement. Mr Strache, but also Mr Neubauer: I already see a serious difference not only in the person, but also in the function as Mr Blecha or also in the esteemed President a. D. Khol: These are representatives of pensioners' interests, namely only stakeholders. Our task is also to represent the interests of pensioners, but of course also to involve the interests of the other population groups, which is at least 70 percent. Since I've already wondered a little – well, actually it didn't surprise me – that after the topic of strangers has already been a little exhausted, you have now just taken up the topic of pensioners as the playing ball of the political debate. There you can be very populist and demand this and that the blue be down from heaven, as was the case in your request for the special session. [[Abg. Strache: You yourself agreed to another request at the special meeting! You yourself agreed to 1.9 percent!]] I find that very difficult in itself, because you don't pay the whole story out of your Christmas Remuneration. You're pretending to be from you, but that pays the general. And perhaps you, at least in part, have been tracking why we have made the pension reform and have had to make it on the recommendation of the EU: Because we had relatively high costs in terms of gross national product. [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you stick to the request you last voted on?]] Of course, these high costs must also be met by someone. And when we look at the past: It was always a problem how the respective pension is adjusted. We once had the orientation on the wages. That was a certain problem. If the pension increases were higher, the assets said the following year: This is actually not to be seen, we need more increase. If the pension was lower, the pensioners said: This is actually unsocial, because there is more to it – you used this argument today – but not all participate in what is being achieved. Therefore, these adjustments to the consumer price index were then chosen in the 2004 reform. On and on, I find this quite acceptable and just. This, which has been here today, is not the decision-making of the desirable person – we all find it legitimate to demand more – but that is the compromise, which is the feasible that can be financed. Despite this increase, which is still too little from your point of view, in 2030 we have the constellation that we have to pay 17.2 percent of our gross national product for pension insurance. And who pays that? – That's what the boys, the assets in the system pay. If you compare this: Germany uses 13.8 percent, Spain 9.9 percent – one can say that they may have a worse system – France 15 percent. If you say so loosely, Well, that must be worth it to us!, I recommend you: Ask why the EU has said that we should reform! [[Abg. Strache: They paid contributions, that's not alms for the pensioners!]] The reason was that, of course, the ability to develop and the quality of the site are already related to what we are doing for education, what we are investing in infrastructure. Therefore, a pension increase is always a balanced compromise. I also think that the current procedure is very correct, that a set is made in the form of 1.6 percent permanent law, the other socially staged in premiums, and at the same time the decision-making - at least pro futuro - is to be made with regard to the compensation allowances. For example, the commercial pensioners who have disadvantages in this area benefit in particular; I think that is socially fair. Why is it so important that this is not in permanent law? – Because we have also introduced a pension account in the context of the pension reform, and as with a savings book, their pension contributions are listed for each citizen. On the other hand, if I bring everything into permanent custody in the case of pension increases, this is an injustice between the assets and the other, and one has to pay off these costs which one brings into the permanent right, such as interest rates on other debts accordingly. Therefore: If we were to follow your proposal, it would not only be unfair, it would not be financeable in the long run. We have to plan the next pension reform in the longer term, so we would also be in conflict with all the reforms so far. From my point of view, summarized: Do not resist the temptation to say constantly: With the pensioners – who sit up here in part; but you also tell them about the media – we would have done this and that! It would be much more objective to consider, in the future, fair and transparent, the system by which the pension is to be adjusted. We do not always use the pension adjustment as a game ball, as a negotiating mass of the political debate, because this is ultimately unfair for everyone else!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8917	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8938	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Matznetter, Mr Strache: In this Federal Government, we have had to act very easily in view of the demographic development of the economy in terms of employment, the budget, the general structure of the population. It was, as it were, five minutes ago. The charging system in Austria will continue to be maintained and permanently adapted to the new challenges. At the same time, a second and a third pillar must be set up and promoted. It was of course important to maintain a balance between young and older people in order to maintain the payment system, the so-called generation contract. And we have achieved this balance with it. Look Its demographic development is as follows: 30 years ago someone was on average eight years in pension and now 20 years. Thank God, life expectancy has risen, but we must respond to it. The boys are much longer in training, enter employment later and therefore pay later. We responded in time. Mr Matznetter, you believe that you have the right to pension, the pension system, so to speak, “in the small finger”. If I accept the request 20/A concerning a federal law that amends the General Social Security Act, which you do – thank God! – have withdrawn, look, then I have to say that this request has neither head nor foot, and I am glad that you support the government’s social rights amendment that we decide on today. Their request goes to nothing other than that the Social Ministry should negotiate with the Senior Pension Council on the increase in pensions, as is the case with collective treaty negotiations in the framework of the social partners. It would be extremely time-consuming that it would not be foreseeable during which period it would be ready, and in principle it would be extremely worrying and impracticable. In addition, it is at first sight that the application does not deal with the relevant parallel law, nor does it take into account the wide range of adaptation formulas provided for in the law. It also failed to include the guide value in the catalogue. I would say that this request is not matured. I am glad that we have reached a compromise here that, in addition to a linear adjustment to the rate of inflation and thus guarantee of value, we are now making a social single payment. That was our proposal. For pensions up to €1 380 a single payment of €60 is made, for pensions up to €1 920 – that is 50 percent of the maximum basis of assessment; By the way, 95 percent of the Austrian ASVG-pensionists have a pension up to this amount – a single payment of 45 € is made, and a single payment of 25 € is made for extra pensions. If you complain that even higher pensions have not been adjusted accordingly in the past, I must ask you: What are you doing? - Now you do the same! It is quite the same what we have done in the past that higher pensions have not been adjusted at such a high percentage, 95 percent, i.e. those with a pension level that corresponds to half the maximum basis, but very well. And that's exactly the same thing we're doing now. You agree while you criticise on the other hand what we have done in the past. But we've secured the pensions. Another one at the Pensionist Price Index: I warn against that – that has already been said today – to introduce various indices. Today, the pension price index is 1.9 percent higher by three tenths, the Statistics Austria has determined this on behalf of the Pensioners' Council, but I warn against doing so in the future, because it does not always have to be so that the Pensionist Price Index is higher than the Consumer Price Index. This is by no means guaranteed. Then we hop back or forth. And that's not the way it can be. Or do we perhaps also create a disability price index, where parameters different from those for other people, or a youth index or a women's index? [[Abg. Oils: Why not?]] The SPÖ has simply fallen down in this area, as you have rightly said, Mr Oellinger. It's like that once. However, it has come up in time and has turned towards what the German government, which is still in office, has decided. In the interests of combating poverty, it was particularly important that we have raised, above all, the minimum pensions, which have greatly increased compensation allowances, the guide for single people as well as those for families. The development from 1999 to 2006 was enormous here. The consumer price index has increased by 15.7 percent by the beginning of this year, the compensation allowance rate for single people by 17 percent. If you add the increase planned for next year, you can see that this has increased enormously. This also applies to the Family Code, which also rose by 25.5 percent until the beginning of this year. In sum this is a plus of 250 with 1. January 2007 at the Family Law and the Guide for Singles a plus of 136, and this can be easily seen. We have the third highest minimum pension rate in Europe. So there are a lot of things that can be stopped from Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8978	The next item is Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8999	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Dolinschek, the five minutes are not enough to correct what you have said. The fact is, we have not withdrawn our request, but our request has been postponed – that is a difference and should perhaps be known to you – because we want to transfer the pensioner price index to permanent law. This has to be negotiated first, and that was the point we are talking about. Of course, it's important to be in a daily newspaper today: ‘Greatest pension increase in 10 years’. This also hurts you because, unlike your times of government, when you were alone saying it, of course we did something for the pensioners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] As I said, ‘Greatest pension increase in 10 years’. So don't forget, Mr Dolinschek. But I think, and we should discuss this very openly: We all welcome, in particular, that the compensation allowance and the compensatory allowance rate are now raised to € 726, because it is really an active means of combating poverty. They all know, among other things, that poverty reduction is one of the priorities we set. It is incredible that in one of the richest countries on earth, in Austria, poverty has increased, especially under this federal government. However, no government will be spared from dealing with poverty and trying to combat poverty. And I think the increase in the compensatory allowance to € 726 in the individual guideline is an important step in this direction. We're above the poverty threshold. This is an essential and also a fixed point of combating poverty in an overall package that we see. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, what we should not overlook when we talk about poverty and low incomes is the fact that it is logically more difficult with percentage increases in pensions that are low. It is, I believe, also undisputed that in what the pensioners have on a daily basis, such as eating, housing, food and so on, pensioners with low pensions as well as those with higher pensions, logically there is an increased need. These are two factors: On the one hand, it is about ensuring the value of pensions, i.e. – that is what Mr Öllinger has already done in his introductory words today – it is about the fact that a pension, which has a certain amount, does not permanently lose purchasing power and thus comes down at some point. However, it is also a question of improving pensions, which are very low, and actually raising the factor to which life becomes more expensive, which takes account of the real world of life. The problem we have in this form – and we should also address this openly – is in fact not dealt with. This is the problem that we have a 1.6 percent pension adjustment and the fact that with one-time payments, we are even coming up over this 1.6% up to 2.2 percent, but the question of sustainability is raised. So to clarify this question will still not be spared from us in this house. I am glad that we have now made this compromise, but I am particularly pleased that it has succeeded in also moving the EIAs to raise the compensatory allowance rate. I also do not want to thank you for knowing how difficult it was in the negotiations to achieve this compromise. I think it's a very important step. All we are talking about is an essential point: There are people in Austria who are poor. Each of us who was in the election campaign has experienced this when the people came and told how they try to get over the rounds with 500 €. I don't think we can all imagine that. I think it is really one of the most important and urgent tasks that we see that in this country people have an income that they can deal with in some way. The increase in the compensatory allowance is, as I said, a very essential step in the right direction from my point of view. Again: ‘Greatest pension increase in 10 years’. We're happy about that. I think the pensioners are happy about this too. We must be honest and fair enough and also note that the problem of sustainability here in this House, as I hope, will be dealt with accordingly by all the political groups represented here during the next year. The problem now does not arise with 1. January 2007, but in the following pension increases, we will have to deal with how we deal with pensions and pensioners on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9066	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9088	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are two very good decisions to be made today: the remuneration novelle and now the pension adjustment. Which is less good, these are some contributions. I must be a little surprised at how the pension theme is presented at the end of the day. There are also some massive errors in the calculation. If a speaker stands here today and speaks of “32 percent of the population”, then I must say that is a huge mathematical failure. In Austria we have 2.1 million people of 8.1 million citizens in retirement insurance or pension. These are mathematically 25 percent – and not 32 percent. Whoever deals with mathematics so easily, of course, can not start much with the pension adjustment and starts here to explain things that are just too imaginative! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If something is tangible, then it is this pension adjustment, because it has structures in it that are really unique. And you don't have to tell me here that this is a punishment for citizenship. – No, not with God, we have a general adjustment of 1.6 percent, which corresponds to a scale of € 460 million. This concerns a large part of the pensioners or pensioners, namely all who receive a benefit equal to or below half the maximum contribution basis. Everyone else, and that's the social element, gets only one fixed amount. Not all who are touched by it thank you, but it is. These parties had the strength and the courage to put a fence here. It's possible to see it! Secondly, We have set up a very intelligent control process with one-time payments. Thirdly, There is an increase in the guidelines for compensatory allowances. This affects at least 230 000 citizens, about 190 000 are affected by the guidelines for single people, and about 40 000 are affected by the family code. Overall, the proud €623 million and thus – so that we can move on in mathematics – are clear 2.1 percent. No one needs to apologize for this. This is a reason, even our duty to carry this out and bring to the attention of citizenship, especially those 2.1 million pensioners who benefit from these benefits. It can only say that it is not the one that deals with pension policy populistly, there are always some, and it can only say that it is not the one who does not want to understand the classification. All of this can be improved. That is why I believe that we should talk about these things honestly and openly. Why you made this one-off payment has a reason. There are at least 230 000 citizens who have two or more pensions. It is thus equally controlled that you distribute this half-rightly. Ms. Federal Minister – she has come in the meantime – a compliment to all those who have worked on it, especially the political parties who have made this decision. I think that is also worth mentioning: We have heard an inflation rate of 1.1 percent – readable everywhere, beautiful today. If we then increase by 2.1 percent, then don't say that we're pulling someone over the table, then don't say that we're punishing someone, remember that this is a very clear and good decision. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] To think that we also need to vote this decision with the workers, that we also need to vote with the young people and that this decision is also reasonable for the people of Europe, is also the task of mandates. [[New applause with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You may have wishes, no question, no one forbids you. However, realism here in this House is already a factor you should not overlook. I therefore recommend that you deal with this issue a little more intensively. Since the pension reform has been addressed today, I think that we should bear this out clearly. Not all of them are satisfied, no, but one thing is clear: It was a social partnership agreement, in the approach, in the orientation great, uniquely good. There is a similar right of application for all occupational groups in the future. Show me a country in Europe, show me a country that can compete with us in this way or overwhelm us! That is, I think, reason enough that you can once be satisfied and also enjoy what has been achieved. If we still count child rearing times when we take care in the families, if we include unemployment, sickness in the pension system, then, I must say, this is really a development that is positive and has actually been carried out in recent years. If we can afford all of this, then only because we have made a good budget policy and a good economic policy in this country. This has undoubtedly been the case, so these developments are also feasible and possible. Thank you very much – and I hope that we can continue this good policy, with whomever it is, with the good forces. But we certainly don't want to continue with that. I say that from my point of view, only criticize important and good work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9175	Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9196	Madam President. High house! I have followed the debate closely and heard a lot of polemics, but little criticism – polemics now not only from the two parties who reject it. Especially amused was the polemics on the issue of indices, almost according to the motto, there could be female indices or youth indices. Check – www.statistics.at – how many different indices we lead! These are not two or three, they are hundreds, and we do not, because we are Fad, but because we want to make a better policy with them. And of course, if a pensioner price index or pensioner index helps us to make better policy and increase targeted pensions, then we should lead it. And that's good, and that's not where polemics are. Let us look at how many different indices we have on our own in agriculture, and we need them so that we can also make a good agricultural policy. Do not polemize against instruments that have been shot and tested in truth! The crucial question is: What changed before 2006? What was the case before 2000? – There was a pensioner’s index, there were increases that essentially cut off the price, often even above it, and after 2000 it was gone. As there were real cuts, the pensioner index was no longer continued, it was only reintroduced with 2005 or 2006 because of what mistakes were made. In real terms, pensions have been reduced in recent years. The difference now is: Now they are no longer shortened, now they are raised again, and there is again a pensioner index. There are also the proposals and requests from us to use them as a guide to the increase in pensions, because we believe that it is simply coming closer to the truth and that it also enables us to make a better policy. There are also mistakes in beauty, you don't need to hide this: This is this one-off payment variant, which is a beauty mistake because it does not count for the following years, is a small part of the total package, but nevertheless. There is also a very great area, Mr Gusenbauer has said, the really big breakthrough, which he referred to in this area, that the minimum pensions are now raised by more than 5 percent, and that is certainly something where no one needs to hide at all, which was also necessary, that is no question at all. There has been a criticism that, I believe, one must also take away, namely that the widows and orphans should be included in the increase in the compensatory allowances. This is a proposal of content and a criticism that comes here, which you have to take with you and see if you can implement it. One last thing, because colleague Weinzinger meant that the women have nothing of the 1.6 percent: More than two thirds of the minimum pensioners are women. And who has anything of this increase of more than 5 percent other than women? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9237	Mrs Lentsch is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9258	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Government's proposal on pensions 2007 is certainly well thought out. 1.6% plus € 40 Single payment, which is below the line 1.9 percent – and we could have done that. Following yesterday's very long and partly difficult negotiations, a social single payment of between €60 and €25 came out under the line. And we can afford that too, ladies and gentlemen. The increase in pensions is intended to strengthen the purchasing power of our pensioners. More to promise, that may be popular, but certainly not serious – that goes towards green and blue! In recent years we have increased or adjusted pensions four times, for the last time per 1. January 2006 at least 2.5 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you talking about?]] In the same period, pensions were increased by zero percent in Germany. [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you talking about?]] You heard right: Zero percent increase in pensions in Germany! Müntefering then also meant in the direction of the seniors: If they don't get out with their money, they're supposed to play Balalaika or Toto. – A truly cynical statement, ladies and gentlemen! However, we have also decided on a pension reform, not because of annoyance to those who now have to work longer, but so that our children and grandchildren can also enjoy a pension. That's the generation contract, ladies and gentlemen. We decided on the three-pillar system. There will always be – I say “hope” for it – a public provision. The second pillar is the operational provision that can be taken with you from one farm to another, so you change the service – I would not recommend the handling. And the third pillar is private provision. But we have not forgotten the socially weak, ladies and gentlemen. Since 1999, the compensation allowance has increased from € 590 to € 700. Today, there is an additional motion for a resolution which will further increase the compensatory allowance. And I think that's positive. The government has also made it easier for women to receive an independent pension. There are many points here, I would just like to take one out now, namely the billing of child rearing times on the pensions of women, the mothers. Thus, these child rearing periods are not only pensionable but also heightening. I think that is very positive, and we can only congratulate this Federal Government on that. I would also like to thank you very much, on behalf of all women, for this. It's clear: If we permanently link this good pension system that we have in Austria to all corners and ends, this will not go well for a very long time. This is a fact that we should all be aware of. Of course, you can wish yourself a lot, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and of the Blues, but whether it is also financeable, that is the question here. It's about the generation contract. We're going a very, very good way, go with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9311	Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9332	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This debate today is, of course, a very positive one, because it is noted that in Austria social warmth is once again Once again, and for the people involved in the smallest pensions, there is really a very good development, a noticeable improvement for people involved in minimum pensions will occur by increasing the compensatory allowance rates. Of course, you have to say that living with €726 a month – twice with €1,091 – is not easy, there is no big state to do. De facto these people always save at their fixed costs and not at variable costs. Therefore, it is already very important that we do not fall into the mistake of taking purchasing power to the people of the lowest incomes, because everything they get flows back into the economic cycle and does not go astray as with other incomes. I think in total one has to say this is a decent solution, 1,91 or 1,97 percent improvement and upgrading. Ladies and gentlemen have already determined, as it were, that we are interested in it and will try to make this increase sustainable. So I am satisfied with this, although pensions are certainly not an issue with which to make a political profile. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9363	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. – I hope I have spoken the name correctly, otherwise please correct me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9399	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The last few years have been really not easy for pensioners in Austria: There have been regular pension increases below the inflation rate, but there have been increases in daily life, but also substantial increases, up to 60, with fees and other taxes. All of this has led to the fact that the impairment of values – as I may call an unwarranted witness – is located in the double-digital percentage range. It is particularly striking for pensioners who have relatively low pensions, because of course the consumption rate is much higher compared to the savings ratio. This development has led many pensioners to become old-fashioned with poverty. To a large extent, women are affected. That's why I'm saying: It is high time and we are called upon to make a contribution to improving this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is what we have said before the election, and we do so after the election. This is not a question of saving costs at the expense of pensioners, It is not, however, a question of asking who offers more, but it is a question of ensuring the situation in a sustainable way. With the agreement reached yesterday in the Committee on Budgets – I assume that today's decision will be taken in this House – on the pension adjustment for the coming year – I emphasize: for the coming year – we have achieved a very balanced and socially suspended performance. This staggering, after which the members of small pensions were getting more, was particularly important to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In connection with the increase in the compensatory allowance rate for individuals and for families, it can be described as a good day for pensioners and as a good start. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9457	Mrs Prettenthaler is speaking as the last one on this point. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9478	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add the following to the remarks made by one of my previous speakers: Mrs. Lentsch, that was not a proposal from the Federal Government, but an agreement of the parties, SPÖ and ÖVP – with the SPÖ manuscript. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A milestone is reached with the increase of pensions. For the first time since 2000, this means no real loss of wages for our pensioners. This was achieved with a broad consensus from the political groups. But I am even more pleased to see the approval of all the political groups to increase the compensatory allowance rates. About 80 percent of the members of these low pensions are women. The income shears continue to disperse. And that is a real step towards countering it. The fight against poverty as a whole is an important concern of Austrian social policy. It is therefore very important and priority to apply these measures to pensioners in particular in this area. It makes a significant difference as to whether you are 690 € in the month or – as from the 1st century. January 2007 – 726 € is available. How these women and men get over the rounds with so little money can certainly not imagine many here in this hall. This increase of 36 € per month also means a little luxury for one or another, taking part in a trip or once over the strands and buying something that might have been impossible before. Finally, this money flows back into the Austrian economy. It is therefore a great obligation for all in this House to help prevent these people – mainly women – from living in poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9527	As the last speaker on this point, Mr Graf, I should like to speak. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9549	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! You should not give up hope. You yourself once said: Hope dies at last! We should therefore give the opportunity or the chance that the new parliamentaryism you have announced will still prevail, with the finding of free majority, also in this matter. It makes sense to fight for this in this matter until the last, perhaps still what one originally intended to get out for the pensioners. Since I know that there is a majority in this House in principle for our request, I assume that there is still a move to make. If Mrs. Silhavy says here that you would have liked the PPI to be anchored in the permanent right now, but you do that afterwards, then it is fine, nice and beautiful, but this legal task is not so difficult. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If you want, we can do that in two minutes, and then that's in the permanent right. Unless you really don't want it. In the last six years, our pensioners have repeatedly had to learn that the credibility of politics on this issue is not really high – and because of your current approach, it will certainly not be greater. Mrs Silhavy says she is pleased to have found a compromise with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Silhavy: Because of the compensation allowance...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of increases in compensation allowances, adjustments to pensions must not necessarily be pleased to have reached a compromise with the ÖVP, but it is really a question of finding a majority for pensioners here in the House. That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: (keeping up a newspaper article) You're looking forward to the biggest pension increase in the last ten years!]] You must explain to the pensioner, in particular the SPÖ-pensionist, why you say everywhere: We want 2.2 per cent up to €1 350 or €1 380, and then you decide only 1.6 per cent and a non-sustainable one-off payment. – This is quite contrary to your line! We don't want 2.1 percent of our pensioners to be converted into sustainable ones, but we want 2.2 percent sustainable for our pensioners. And we want the pensioner price index fixed. – Not a difficult legal effort, but if one absolutely only sees his salvation in making a compromise with the ÖVP, then nothing remains but to rejoice over what has come out. [[Abg. Silhavy: After all, the biggest increase in the last ten years!]] I would ask you once again not to do what Mr Dolinschek has said here from the speaker's desk towards SPÖ. He said that the SPÖ is doing the same as the government over the last six years, and the SPÖ has fallen into the direction of government parties, ÖVP and BZÖ. That's what he said here, and that's the case. - Don't fall down! Give the pensioners what you promised them before the election. Keep your promises even after the election, vote Let us ask you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9632	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 8 of the supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this law. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their consent to the law at third reading to a sign. - That's the majority again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 8 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[Abg. May. Molterer: unanimously!]] Unanimously. (E 4.) – Yes, thank you very much; very attentive! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger - be careful, Mr Molterer. – on the increase in pensions in 2007. [[Rejoicing]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, on the adjustment of pensions. I again ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:57:35]] 6. Point report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 25/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law, with which transitional provisions are adopted until the new regulation of care (Pflege-Transitionsgesetz) (5 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9720	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9747	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer, I would ask you to listen to me because you are the bringer of this request. This transitional scheme until 30. June 2007, you want to create now, ladies and gentlemen, does not bring anything to anyone. It does not help those who need the assistance, and it does not help the assistants, caretakers or helpers who do this work. Mr Molterer, I am telling you why. It is quite nice that you are now – 18 years old I already know that there are these illegal care; in Upper Austria I think you know that even longer, after 18 years, suddenly says: That's crazy, you have to do something! – For 18 years you have been silent, then it has become up-to-date, and you had to do something. They have made these transitional provisions, and this has come to your mind. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to show you now that these transitional provisions for this half-year are really a huge embroiler. A woman wrote to me, she is 48 years old and cross-sectional, she has practically a cervical paralysis and, like many others, has regulated her assistance by having two employees who are not legally active in Austria; they work with her all month long. The woman has an apartment with 65 square meters, in a small room the staff can sleep. These two ladies get a total of € 1 560 a month. This woman – I call the wheelchair driver “Frau Gruber” – must be from 1. In January 2007, either these two women insure themselves with all social security requirements or she says: You can work with me as a self-employed person and have to deliver your insurance contributions yourself. No matter what solution you choose, stay below the line then for the person who takes over the assistance, in that case only more than € 750 left – now they have got €1,500 net. ==References== She can no longer be paid €1 500 net for January, because this would mean that Mrs Gruber, with the additional wage costs, would have to pay €3 000. She didn't! It has only 1 562,10 € care and 942,30 € pension. So she can't do that. She can now say: Okay, then I'll pass the €1562.10 care money on to my assistants, and they're supposed to take care of their insurance. These will then say: This is not the case, because if we have to take over the social security contributions ourselves, then we will not stay together for € 1 562, but only more € 780. - And I don't work around 400 € either. This is now the problem that arises. We can only solve this problem by deciding on this legalization – yes, we are – but we also take care of the financing of these additional wage costs and special payments – all that results from a social security service relationship. People can't spell the money out of the hat, they don't have it. “Women Gruber” wrote to me that she now has an average of €508 per month with the illegal employment of these two employees. But she's already taken up the two special payments. According to the new regulation, if she legalizes her two employees, she will have a minimum of €1500 each month, because she also has to live on something. I can't. There are only two ways: either to create an open level of care, so that the people who can prove that they do not get their care money, receive these additional costs automatically, or to carry the social security benefits through the federal government. In addition, individual disability groups need to be reclassified, for example dementia-sick people. They do not need care in the classical sense, but behind them one must always be here because one does not know where they are and what they are planning. These are far too low. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be at least one step to give support specifically to the group of older people with dementia diseases. In general, however, you have to – and that will not be saved from anyone! – the care it costs also, from a public point of view. By the way: If this “woman Gruber” had gone to Altenhof in Altenhof – she lives on the border with Lower Austria – or now went, then the federal government and countries would have to pay €4 700 per month to ensure care there. So are we not better off leaving people at home, living where they want to live, and paying them the difference costs in order to be able to finance their assistance as well? I think that's what everybody has. All those who work in disability policy know that it is not only more human, but that it is a right of all people to live there and to be at home where they want it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9838	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a context of content and therefore in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9893	Mrs Trunk's next speech. Time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9914	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Theresia Haidlmayr is completely right in her argumentation and presentation, because the current care transition law – and this must be stated openly here – is no more and no less than an emergency solution, because in reality there is a danger in delay: an emergency solution that benefits those needing care and their families and families who are now being criminalised, because illegal employment is being found, an emergency solution that is intended to decriminalize those in need for a short period of seven months. This transitional law, however, gives us, the newly constituted National Council, until 30. June 2007 – that is, almost seven months – time to finally take those measures of a legislative and budgetary nature that address the care emergency in Austria. You will remember: the care emergency that Mr Bundeskanzler was abdicating this summer, when he meant that after numerous incidents, there was no such emergency. Of course, this care emergency, which still affects the people concerned and their families in Austria, has its causes. One reason is that not only, but also the responsible Minister of Social Affairs and of course also her predecessor Herbert Haupt either simply ignored this problem or – ears to eyes – did not do anything. I still call this non-hazardous today negligent and, in fact, inadmissible. We will agree to this transitional arrangement – I believe I have clearly explained why – because it serves the decriminalisation of those in need for a short period of time. It is important to note, in this context, that this practically amnesty, which welcomes those concerned – and ultimately, however, an amnesty is always a form of injustice – does not apply to support organisations, because this would ultimately mean that either the associations would be discriminated against or the people in these associations would lose this protection. The SPÖ has also provided very clear answers in the ongoing coalition negotiations – manageable, quality and also budgetaryly secured. What we need now is: first of all an urgent legal basis for the different forms of care and care at home, second, a clear differentiation of different types of employment and the corresponding occupations, thirdly, clear standards for quality assurance, and, of course, we need – and that means setting priorities – clear budgetary resources. What I expect from all of us, cross-party, in this National Council and from a hopefully not only sitting, but working new federal government, is to tackle and implement this problem quickly and without compromise – liveable for those affected, manageable and qualityful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Since I have a few seconds left and my colleague Lentsch always has the strong passion to communicate with me: Mrs Lentsch, what is it about now? [[Call the ÖVP:Steibl is the name!]] . Now we are dealing with immediate, rapid negotiations, developing a joint government programme and this problem in the field of health, education and the budget, the economy and the like. The people in Austria have a right to act immediately and to eliminate these abuses! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9973	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e9994	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! It is now about six months since we realized that there is a care situation in Austria, but that there is at least an urgent need for action in this area, and therefore I do not let it apply if one speaks of an emergency solution now. This is not an emergency solution, because this “necessary solution” should have been met in the previous year, since all of us were aware of the problem. This is not an emergency solution, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a very revelation of political helplessness! We have to make that clear. If we know for months what problems there are – it was also a topic in the election campaign – and present an emergency solution today, then we cannot talk about the danger of delay. In reality, we need to be able to present sustainable solutions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I know that's always very funny – you sit on your chair very loosely – but that's a very serious topic, you know? [[Abg. Street:... social heart!]] You, gentlemen of the ÖVP... – Yes, I am very concerned about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You know, I've been in such a rehab facility for a few months and I know what problems there are. Please be glad you're healthy, Mr. Deputies. [[Abg. Hornek: I worked there, deputies!]] Be really happy! I have to tell you that this laziness that you are dealing with is really embarrassing, Mr Intervener, and you, honourable Member, are really embarrassing! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But preaching is not...!]] What did you do? – You have set up a committee to which you have set up the failed head of state Klasnic. You know what? – This is typical Austrian. If Moses had been a committee, his people would probably still be in Egypt. You set up a committee, and what happened? - Nothing. [[Abg. Bitch: Nothing!]] There would have to be results! Why don't you bring the results here in the high house? Why is there no vote, no proposal? We proposed a care package at the last meeting. – We are opposition party, we have proposed it. – Where are your proposals? Where are they? The calls come, of course – you can. But where is your care proposal, where is the package? – I have not seen anyone, ladies and gentlemen. This is really unworthy of a government party, a party that has ruled for a very long time. [[Abg. Steibl: Is that the virgin speech?]] – The virgin speech, gracious woman, that's what you're dealing with, but where is your solution to the care problem? I haven't heard from you yet. [[Abg. Steibl: Not your solution either!]] In-between calls, you can do that! You're upset! Yes, you can. [[Abg. Steibl: Go, go! Such a fool!]] But you did not present a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the devaluation! [[Abg. Steibl: Where is the package?]] The care allowance was introduced in 1993, and there has been an increase in the last ten years, but it has not even covered inflation this year, namely in 2005. That is why there is a legitimate demand for the disabled organisations to finally make an inflation adjustment. That's not what happened. Since mathematics has already been tried here, I quote: The devaluation of the care allowance, ladies and gentlemen, has been 17 percent since 1993 despite the double increase. This means in concrete terms: at the care level 1: 393 €, at the care level 3: 848 € annually and at care level 7: 3 146 €. [[Abg. Strache: If it goes after the ÖVP, it's just!]] You're wondering there's a problem? You wonder that people can no longer afford legal care? You have shortened the support year after year by devalue! I believe that we must also make legal care possible, and therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On this occasion I would like to say: Mrs Haidlmayr, your request is really good. We will also be happy to support this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one who has character will, if legal care is possible, take the risk of illegal care. Let us therefore allow this legal care, instead of putting the head in the sand, into this proverbial “desert Gobi”, because this solution you want to decide today is not a solution, not even an emergency solution, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You talk like a...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10195	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer – which has just been tabled – is sufficiently supported, is in a sufficient context and is therefore in the process of discussion. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10254	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10275	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say first of all: These three contributions to the debate are for me a choir of negative, inconsistency statements. I trust to say that, in fact, because it is very easy to be in Parliament for a short time – at least for the colleague who spoke last – and to say that nothing has happened. At the end of my speech, I will give you once again what has happened. I think you can also get involved in another way. [[Abg. He said: ‘Falling inflation adjustment’! Didn't you listen?]] This topic is far too sensitive to talk about it in a polemic way. This topic is a very family- and social-political concern that we all have – please! – have to take more than just to heart and also to negotiate it wisely. [[Abg. Strache: This is precisely what Mr Hofer knows! He was a nursing case!]] This also has to do with the fact that we have an ever-longer life expectancy and that more and more people also have to expect to need care in old age. Yes, but this has grown very quickly in recent times, because we have a different environment and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] It is also understandable that this problem is now at the heart of this access. Although the risk of becoming a care case also increases only from 60. Year of life – you see that when you look at the statistics – but of course this can be the case in the younger years. Between 60 and 80. It's about 10 percent of the age. The situation is dramatic, of course, for over 80-year-olds. That's 60 percent. In a few years, the number of 80-year-olds will double, so that a doubling of care cases in this age category can be expected. – This also has to do with the matter: the fact that the development is now being developed. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Where is your proposal?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have not put forward a proposal either. I come to that already. We have a proposal! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: We have submitted an application!]] Getting older in dignity – and that is what it is about – and the associated care and care for the elderly are, of course, a great challenge for all of us. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Don't take it!]] One thing is also important: The family is the largest care service of this nation – so I call it – because around 80 percent of the care services are provided by relatives: by wives, daughters, daughters-in-law, sometimes also by husbands, but very rarely by sons and not even by sons-in-law. – Not my invention, but studies. Ladies and gentlemen, now to this transitional law: The aim is to put an administrative penalty on employers in the private household in the employment of nurses. In the election campaign, attention has been paid to foreign nurses. In the draft law introduced by the ÖVP – and here I also thank Mr Bartenstein as well as the Federal Minister, who worked most intensively for it – are both foreign – that is also important! – as well as domestic nurses. The purpose of this transitional law is to create a social security exception. This will help create legal certainty in the care and care sectors for both the private service provider and the care and care staff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] – Mrs Haidlmayr, I have listened to you too, so please do so too. The main scope of this amnesty lies on the one hand in the field of working time, on the other hand also in the field of the Holiday Law. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end a few points for all the new ones in this house – at least on the sides of the FPÖ –: This Federal Government has put in place numerous measures to support both caregivers and relatives in such difficult situations. For example, the family hospice care was introduced, the care allowance was increased, the construction savings as a care provision was made possible and the preferential self-insurance for caregivers was created. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] An initiative in the labour market has also contributed to the higher qualification of people in the care sector. The 14 000 new jobs have been created with qualified training. We have created the patient supply law that has strengthened patient rights. We have introduced the national harmonisation of the work plan “Heimhilfe” and the work plan “Altenpflege”. Ladies and gentlemen, stand up for the vote! You are Members of Parliament who are not just sitting here in the house, as Mr Trunk has said.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10387	Next, Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10408	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of care concerns more and more Austrians. Nearly 400 000 people in Austria are receiving care benefits, more than 320 000 federal pension funds and about 60 000 national pension funds. More than 80 percent of care and care services are provided by family members. The rest of the caregivers are accommodated in hospital care or are cared for by mobile care services. What is often referred to as “old-age care” in the public debate is often referred to as a very complex legal area with different legal regulations. The competence in this area is very fragmented between federal, regional and local authorities. Medical care must be distinguished from the care of the elderly in general. In the past two legislative periods, the Federal Government has implemented many improvements in this area, some of which I would like to mention here: Improvements in medical care: fewer beds per room, improvement of the service structure, creation of a separate chair for Geriatry and conversion of cots into cots. Introduction of the family hospice in Europe for full social security, including treatment for caregivers in the last phase of death support or in the care of a seriously ill child. Introducing “accompanied living” as a further task of non-profit housing. Favourable self-insurance for caregivers by taking over the service provider's share by the federal government of €1 350, which will also affect pension insurance; this is especially true of female caregivers, because they account for the most part in this area. Increased care allowance with January 2005. – This has only happened the second time since 1993, but after all, the care allowance has been increased by 2 percent. Patient supply law to strengthen patient rights also for caregivers. Legal protection of the activities of caring relatives in the Medical Law. State-funded building savings can be used to provide care; this is another step that has been taken. The discussion on the need for care last summer has shown that, especially in the case of care by non-family persons, those affected are overwhelmed by compliance with all applicable legal regulations, but legal care at home is also hardly manageable financially. That is why we believe that a care increase is absolutely necessary, to a greater extent, and that the care allowance should be valorised in the future. In my opinion, Amendment No 25/A, which is now available here, is too short by the end of June 2007 by its limitation to a limited period of impunity and is not in any way capable of effectively solving the existing problems. I too am in favour of decriminalizing families who are engaged in illegal caregivers. That's all right. But legalizing illegals is, in my opinion, the wrong solution. In the field of social security contributions, this request leaves the persons concerned without any protection against any additional requirements. This is not in the sense of a good solution, because questions of professional and tax law are not covered at all, and administrative problems are also pre-programmed in terms of what care and what care is. I am therefore submitting a motion for a resolution which provides for an emergency fund, which is: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10551	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Mr Dolinschek and others is well supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10687	Next came Mr Bartenstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10708	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! A few weeks ago, we took the first step towards this important issue to address this important challenge: Care, leasibility and legalization of care at home, to return to body. It has come to a consensus in this matter with the representatives of Social Democracy, for which I thank myself. The objective is the legalisation of foreign nursing staff by an exception from the Foreign Employment Act. What it is about now, Mrs Haidlmayr, is not the big overall solution – it needs its time, it needs a lot of work; it will be difficult enough until 30. On June of next year, to come to the solution now planned – but a second step, which, as I think, is important to strengthen the security of people. A care amnesty is intended to give greater security to both the family members and the families in which these families are cared for. The first step has only rehabilitated the topic of care in foreign law. This means that one no longer has to worry about the KIAB's an-the-door gap, the control of illegal foreign employment, of administrative penalties, of penalties that may and may be worth thousands of euros. Now it is a question of giving legal certainty in a number of legal areas, only where we think it is right. We don't think it's right everywhere. For example, we do not take the Workers' Protection Act out. We also do not take out the Child and Youth Employment Act and the Muterschutz Act. There's no need for an amnesty, we don't want her there. We do not need them in the tax field, according to information provided by the financial unit, because, according to the financial unit, care in the household is income from a commercial enterprise and, accordingly, there is no need for an appointment under wage tax law – regardless of whether it is domestic or foreign caregivers. But in the housework law, we put this amnestration step. There, too, what is to be available under the law of employment and labour law is regulated, so that it is not necessary in the latter two types of legislation. This second step is important now. What this second step cannot do, however, is to finance social security contributions from somewhere else, which it cannot afford to provide security in the sense that such caregivers impose regress requirements, for example on the repayment of health insurance contributions. Only: If they haven't done that so far, I assume that they'll also have it until 30. June next year will not do. – So this is an important second step. I thank you for the consensus that will not yet be complete, but broad on this subject. We have now opened the door to negotiate the great solution that aims to make care at home more manageable in addition to the important care in the institutions of this country. One last: Mrs Trunk, as you have once again spoken of the "place of appeal" and have quoted the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here, I can tell you the following: It was not only the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but there were also non-numbered social representatives from the countries that usually belong to your party, who have expressly spoken of the fact that this alleged care emergency does not exist. You're not supposed to see things more critical than they are. There is a need for action, something must happen per futuro, something should happen, but speaking of a care emergency is absolutely not justified. – And, as I have said, I am thinking of the many social democratic social representatives from Austria, whose competence in this care topic is, in fact, primarily concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10766	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Your speaking time is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10788	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Imagine: You, me in the nursing home – and from there to the cemetery. I don't want that!, many will say. That's how we'll all react. At home instead of at home – this is the wish of the majority of Austrians. 82 percent say that they only want to go to a retirement home if it's not different at all. They wish for only one thing: to live as long as possible in their own four walls. And they also employ illegal nurses. Why? –Because they can’t afford other help – and that’s unfortunately so. In summer – we all know that – punishments have insecured and scared thousands of people. A temporary scheme is now intended to frighten this. First step – Mr Bartenstein has just carried it out –: A regulation so far allows illegally employed caregivers from the new EU Member States to take legal action in Austria. The second measure is added today: The so-called Amnesty Act makes illegal nursing workers punishable under certain conditions; the Minister has already carried out the details. No man in the ÖVP is in the sand, Mr. Hofer of the FPÖ! We're working! A special plus: The two major parties ÖVP and SPÖ work together in this project. And this cooperation will continue to be very necessary: the cooperation of all in view of the growing number of old people. It needs, I would almost think, a national effort. We need a comprehensive re-regulation of the care system, which is fit for the 21st. ==References== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At home instead of at home – this is to be possible for all those who want it! Ideas are many. Ideas from aid organisations and parties exist, for example, from a care survey of the senior seniority council, which recently took place here in Parliament. There are results of the think workshop that Senior President Andreas Khol has launched – for example, the regular adjustment of the care allowance to the increasing care costs. There is the successful working group on Waltraud Klasnic. Among other things, she proposed better social security for caregivers – and much more. We need a effort to realize all of this! People earn – especially in old age! – our appreciation and our solidarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our goal is clear: to allow for decent aging in Austria. That means, put to the point: Care must be available quickly if it is needed; the quality must be right; it must be manageable for all. At home instead of home! Let us, together with all our strength, commit ourselves to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10880	The next item is Mrs Mandak's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10901	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In principle, we have already thought – and always the opinion – that the nursing staff should not now be punished for caring for us in Austria. Nevertheless, we cannot and cannot accept this proposal; I will tell you why. On the one hand, note that the application should concern all those persons who receive the care allowance from the care level 3. My colleague Theresia Haidlmayrhat has already tabled a corresponding request from the Greens. At present, it is true that precisely dementia diseases are not covered and therefore precisely those people who have the highest care and therefore most need care would be excluded from this scheme. How will you behave in the future if an advertisement is refunded in a case where a person who is dement is cared for by a caregiver? – In our opinion, this is an intolerable state. With your proposal, you take those who care for, all provisions of protection for workers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this also concerns the right to a private room. - Yeah, worse than that. It also concerns the right to one's own bed. Not even that's guaranteed anymore according to the laws you bring in here. What – and this is the question! – happens when someone logs in to the caregiver? – It is expected to be around 30 percent extra cost. Who will bear these costs? The families themselves? They know that these are often at the brink of their financial strength and can hardly impose the costs for the caregivers. Should these costs be borne by the caregivers themselves? – Mr Haidlmayr has told you how often this is not possible at all. – Or should the caregivers themselves pay for these costs? – It is usually women or caregivers or caregivers who care for a salary of 900, 1000, 1 200 € per month. Is that the whole amount of the taxes now paid by this sum? There is an open question to which you have no answer! What, I wonder, happens if social security contributions and wage tax are not paid in the first half of 2007? What's going to be Then you do? Then this is still covered by the Amnesty Act. On the one hand is amnested, is not persecuted, and on the other – and I am not aware of whether you are aware of it; but perhaps you have made it quite consciously – have They did not introduce any provision for an amnesty with regard to non-payment of the charges. That means: The Financial Office shall, if it is aware of this, be obliged to prevent such financial or administrative infringements. And that in turn means: Those who care, or those who give the order, will be held liable and will have to pay the debts that have been incurred. Your law, which you have presented here, is not sufficient, has quite blatant shortcomings and gaps, creates more injustice. In our opinion, a clear regulation is needed. Above all, it also requires a reorganisation of the care allowance, not only an increase, but also an overall change, including the introduction of an open stage. And of course, it also needs the corresponding offers in the stationary, part-stationary and, above all, in the ambulatory area, so that the round-the-clock care is not necessary as often as today. It is often necessary today because outpatient services are not sufficiently available or are not manageable. You have to look at that. I'm excited how you can do all this until 1. ==References====External links== We will not agree to this request here and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10969	Mrs Grander is next spoken; her speaking time is also limited on a voluntary basis: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e10990	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have to share the theme of ‘care stand’ in three parts, namely: Care staff, domestic staff and care staff, and the current state of affairs must be raised. I would like to mention that there is very probably a 24-hour care; Example Ludesch in Vorarlberg, and also with us in Tyrol there are in individual explosives 24-hour care. It is not true that someone is physically present in the apartment, but it is also made the round at night, there are night services in the social and health spheres. So we must not assume that there is no structure at all in Austria. That's what I'm gonna find out. Furthermore, because the emergency is always on us, on the ÖVP, one has to say the following – the Federal Minister has already made it sound –: Especially the field of care is in our federal states, except in Vorarlberg, everywhere in SPÖ-Hand. As Mrs Trunk said, we have more than enough, I think; for example, we have a social service law in preparation, which should finally be completed in 2007. But we must be careful not to confuse people, so no one knows who is standing before him now and working with him! – These are also things that need to be clearly identified. We know that care and care for old people is a great social policy, family policy, women's policy and, as I believe, social policy challenge. It must be said – especially from the point of view of women’s politics –: 88 percent of employees in this area are women. It is very much about human dignity in the care and care of the elderly. The care and care of the elderly and the sick simply needs to be done really well. I want to warn you that there is a threat of an emergency of care, of a lack of funding constantly being a terror, but I would ask you to really work on it and consider what opportunities there are. Age is terrible, care is expensive – that's how it sounds, and you have to imagine what that means for those affected. Of course, this is not necessarily very constructive! In mobile care and in homes very, very, very good work is also done. You can't say that this isn't working well! There are, as has been said, different fields of activity: Home help, care and care. We need to distinguish these areas and build multifunctional teams, which already exist, as I have already mentioned. It's also important to me to take care of caring for relatives. Here too, it takes relief through part-station facilities, through visitor services – there are many possibilities – discharge, so that the caregivers can travel on vacation, go on a cure, can accommodate someone on time. These care facilities are also available. We are therefore called upon to raise the regional state of affairs and simply continue to work here. It is also important to take into account that caring relatives require very high flexibility; sometimes it is simply too difficult to accommodate someone. Therefore, there will simply have to be some change in these areas. Furthermore, care classification by nurses should be required, taking into account not only the medical component but also care and advice. These areas should be complementary. Finally, it is quite clear: This “social year” has always appeared throughout the debate. – Social year yes, but under legal conditions for young people, whether male or female; I do not just want to reduce this social year to women. I could even imagine – this is my very personal opinion now – that women have voluntary access to civil service – we have women in many organizations such as Rescue et cetera. However, this has been rejected by Green and SPÖ; it was originally in discussion. Again: New challenges need new answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11048	Next came Mr Weinzinger. You have made a speech time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11070	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since early this morning, I have been listening to the debates and listening to words such as “state-bearing”, “responsible”, “future-oriented”. Eloquent is spoken of as “social justice, social symmetry, and “accepting challenges”. - Impressive! – I now assume that even 15 years ago or 20 years ago similar words and similar attitudes have been heard in this House. But obviously one thing was not heard 15 years ago or even 20 years ago: the warning calls of our demographics who have repeatedly drawn the alarming development of the population pyramid, the worrying change of the population pyramid. – Obviously one has not thought forward-looking, otherwise we are not facing this problem today. For 20 years now, we know that a dramatic development has been taking place in our society, in our society and in the age-old composition of our society, so dramatic that we have to do something. – And done, ladies and gentlemen, politics does not really have much! Even though it was said by one of my previous speakers that the statement “putting the head in the sand” absolutely does not agree: Yes, why do we have to bring in some sort of emergency regulation here? Why, until a new care system is created in Austria, do we have to demand a transitional right, which basically means nothing more than legalising the person who has done something illegal for half a year? What about those who have always legalized their nursing staff so far? Where's the equality? How is what you want to introduce here constitutionally covered? – Ladies and gentlemen! I am very reluctant to use the word, but this is a Husch-Puch-Law and, in my opinion, does not bring a solution far and wide. An overall solution, which can be carried on as a whole, is necessary and should have been developed for 20 years!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11106	Mrs Haubner has now been reported to speak again. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11127	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! An overall solution – I join my previous speaker – is urgently necessary, but I think we have been having for a few years – and that for over 15 years! – a clear division of tasks in Austria. In other words, the Federation is responsible for the caregivers and for the payment of the care allowance, and the countries are responsible for the stationary facilities and for the mobile services. And here, bringing together and creating a comprehensive concept is more urgent than ever! But above all, I would also like to say: In recent years we have seen very well the challenges of demographic development, not only in care, not only in pensions, but also in family policy. Here we – and we can now say, perhaps too late, perhaps past governments should have done more – have set the course right. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, in the whole discussion about care, the care at home is simply the turntable, the springing point at which everything has to be oriented. Therefore, I say, this amnesty law, this solution which is now available, is really only a transitional solution and in no way can it be a permanent solution in any form, because this regulation, which is now in place, ignores any social security aspect. In Austria, the worker's right to social security is still valid. It has already been mentioned today: Those who have so far duly registered and have also properly insured are now, so to speak, the stupid ones against those who have another amnesty until June 2007. And that is the bad side of this transitional arrangement. That is why we really need to think as quickly as possible just for the care at home as we can make them manageable. How can we make them manageable? How can we give all the same opportunities to care at home so as not to discriminate against our domestic, well-trained caregivers and caregivers? If we are talking about making care at home possible, then as a public hand we will not be able to avoid taking some means in addition to the care money to support the families, not only the federal government, but certainly also the countries. I am very glad that a first step has been taken in this direction, especially in Carinthia, that the new budget provides additional resources for the mobile services provided by families, at home for families. Our care check project, for example, was last carried out in a district in Styria. Caregivers have received dedicated services as support for the care at home, and this action, this support of caring relatives has been very positive, has been seen very positively. I mean, in this direction we have to do more than before, saying that this government and I as the Social Minister have put a very great emphasis on the discharge of the caring family; the examples have already been given by my State Secretary, Sigisbert Dolinschekan. This is before also set out the area of support for caregivers, who are mainly women. However, we also need to take an essential step forward here. Therefore, a comprehensive reform and further development of care – the first steps have been taken – is to be carried out, a care that is also manageable for all in the future, and not to call into question the care facility and the largest care institution family, but to further strengthen and support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11189	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in point 5 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. - Thank you, that's accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues, on the amendment of the directive on care benefits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on comprehensive improvements in the care sector. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:55:11]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 23/A(E) by Mr Fritz Neugebauer, Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on the continuation of the successful labour market policy by ensuring sufficient budget resources for the AMS (6d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11296	We reach the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Steier. His speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11325	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The right to work is a fundamental right. Since this is undisputed in this form of opinion, we agreed yesterday in the Budget Committee on a parliamentary party agreement between all parties represented in Parliament, on a motion for a resolution versus a motion for an amendment by Mr Neugebauer, Mr Haubner and Mr Heidrun Silhavy, who, in the present version, wants to improve the situation of the labour market service: because he will receive the support budget on the basis of 2006 and will increase the rule budget for 2007 by additional special funding of € 204 million. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, an average of 222 899 people were unemployed in the year 2000. Accordingly, the number has exploded by 2005 with the reporting of 301 244 people, while youth unemployment has increased by up to 70 percent, the number of unemployed young people under 25 years of age. In view of these unemployment rates and significantly increased youth unemployment, the AMS must ensure that people have prospects for the future of the labour market. That is to say, it must be noted that 1.5 million jobs are being re-occupied each year, and some 800,000 Austrians become unemployed once a year. Multiple changes in work and work have become a matter of course in a working life, but they are already standard. Therefore, from our point of view, the AMS must be able to respond quickly and flexibly to the demands of the labour market and to support those to whom our entire support belongs in such a way as to re-enter or enter into the work process. The labour market is, we know, subject to a very high dynamic. Structural change, increasing demands and changes in the level of qualifications are just some of the issues we need to address. The more effective the AMS can act, the better the chances for customers. However, the dispensation of the AMS can certainly only be a partial aspect of the overall problem. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A policy that prevents long-term unemployment includes measures that provide full-time jobs. They all know the current data showing a decline in full-time jobs and massive increases in part-time work. Poorly paid, often precarious, working conditions with lack of insurance lead to an increase in the number of working poors, i.e. those who do not have sufficient income in spite of employment and who threaten social exclusion and poverty. That is, ladies and gentlemen, we need more public investment in infrastructure and education, but also lifelong learning and training, which help workers adapt their professional know-how to the needs of businesses. We need to increase the funding for labour market policy in order to be able to use really new tools to combat permanent exclusion in the labour market. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A long-term increased funding budget of the AMS will enable the development of continuing vocational training for workers and job-seekers. This is why I should like to thank you in advance for your support in the form of higher dispensation of resources, because these provide a real aid to This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problem of unemployment. That we agree here is more than gratifying in times like this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11377	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. Mr deputies, you've done five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11398	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) However, I would like to mention a fact that has not yet been presented, namely that we have had record employment by October of this year through the measures – economic packages, tax reform: 3.3 million employees this year, this is a number that we can truly be proud of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Compared to the previous year, the total number of employees rose by almost 60 000 and thus by 1.8 percent. We agree that a good part of this record employment is, of course, due to the high growth rate, which has increased to around 3.2 percent – Mr Scheibner, I think, has already quoted it today – and another benefit to the disbursement of funds for labour market services and especially to investment in further qualifications. In September 2005, the Federal Government submitted to the AMS a special programme entitled "Company Workplace", and the employees of the AMS were very successful in implementing this initiative. The target was 91.2 percent at the end of October this year. In other words, about 55 000 people already have improved opportunities at work due to this investment. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Special resources of € 204 million, which were made available, have justified this increased use of resources in the field of active labour market policy, a budget that has also been implemented in a appropriate and targeted manner. This can also be demonstrated on the basis of some other data, such as the fact that this use of funds has now reduced the average presence of job seekers from 187 days in 2000 to 122 days, that the average length of stay in unemployment from 118 days in 2000 to 107 days. The proportion of long-term unemployed who had been unemployed for over a year could be reduced by half. Finally, the number of approved grants has been increased by two thirds and the average length of employment of open positions has been reduced from 39 to 33 days. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, that have been put forward through a successful policy of action by this government, and that is why we have every good reason – I thank you for being a consensus matter – to make the appropriate funding available for the next few years to the extent that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11444	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11466	Thank you very much, Madam President. I need less. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is it about? – In essence, we are continuing the funding for active labour market policy, which has so far been available, for the next year. Even in the Committee I could not be answered whether this also applies to ESF funds – an unclear but not insignificant question. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Yes, but you did not really answer it, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: But sure!]] But what I'm even more interested in is: Will there be a change in the quality of the use of the funds? What we have experienced over the past few years has been that, in the case of rising unemployment, the Federal Minister will immediately be holding his ears, because he doesn't like to hear that, but over the years, the unemployment figures have increased, you can't argue, especially in the problem groups, they must work with resources in active labour market policies that have not been able to keep pace with this increase. The result was a thinning in quality. We were and are not satisfied with this, Mr Federal Minister. I think it is more sensible, in fact, to promote much more quality and to enable the unemployed, but also the working people – and, of course, it needed additional resources, and these cannot come from the unemployment insurance pot alone – to continue their skills. This is certainly also the case for companies. There is certainly a requirement of the federal government. That is why we keep the system under which active labour market policies are taking place in Austria, which, of course, in times of rising unemployment, always poses the problem of increasing demands from the scarcer pot of unemployment insurance, for the real problem. Because one thing is quite clear: In times of rising or high unemployment, if you do not like to hear so much, more resources would have to be available for active labour market policies than ever before. I do not think that active labour market policy alone is enough to deal with employment problems in order to achieve an increase in employment, but if we want to do something about it, then the use of resources must increase. With regard to the number of our unemployed, we are in relation to the budget resources in international comparison within the EU in the last third. On this occasion, Mr. Federal Minister, I should like to say this again. There's nothing to do with it. The very last thing I'm saying here: We agree, yes, but we want you not to keep us in the future, yes, the Greens have also agreed. That's what I'm saying right now: If this is so rewritten that you are taking people as quickly as before the last elections as vacation replacements at Billa, Hofer, Mercury and elsewhere – Hofer wasn't there, I just remember, but saving was in it – without there being a recognizable perspective of sustainable employment behind it, then this is not an adequate use of resources. We do not want to have anything to do with this, and in this case, even if you keep us going, you have agreed to the continuation of the funds at this level, you and also the AMS. We are talking about increasing quality in the use of resources – and not a senseless continuation of courses that do not help the unemployed, but also businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11511	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11535	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear young people, who are very much represented here today, thank God! Why am I particularly addressing the youth? – Unfortunately, unemployment is particularly high among young people. That is why this item on the agenda is of particular interest to young people. I would just like to say that the Liberal Group in this House will vote in favour of the request. If you look at the application title more precisely, you have to ask a few questions. If it says: Sufficient budget resources are to be made available, but this may not be very serious, because the resources made available here should be adjusted and increased in the event of rising unemployment. The unemployed are always playing ball of politics before elections. There are a wide variety of methods, Mr. Oellinger has mentioned one of them, how to “put ” unemployed people into training and training courses. But all of this cannot conceal the fact that in terms of unemployment, we do not want to be bad, but we want to be number one in Europe, as the Federal Chancellor always says. And we're not with God for a long time. In my opinion, the SPÖ is also required, because its electoral programme clearly sets out ways of combating unemployment and especially youth unemployment in Austria. I say quite clearly to you: Every single unemployed person is too much for me! That is why we have to fight for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the “standard” of last Saturday, a statistics was published, and this graph shows that Austria is really bad. [[The speaker shows]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Mr Bartenstein, I would like to give you this afterwards; it is a pity that you do not know it. Austria is the third most recent in Europe, as is the expenditure on labour market programmes! That's really a shame! It cannot be said that everything is being done to combat unemployment in Austria, especially youth unemployment. I can also address one question to you. If we afford and are written as good institutions as the Wifo or the BFI, on the last Saturday still: The Wifo demands more money for job policy – more money, more staff and a new system of funding and demand!, then I wonder why You don't take these demands seriously. Mr Neugebauer, you have first praised everything you have done in the area of combating unemployment in Austria, in part right, but I should like to refer to the opinion of the Wifo Chief of Aigers, who said: Although unemployment in Austria has fallen this year, it was higher than ten years ago. He also says that the basic problem is that public expenditure on these labour market programmes is simply too low. We of the liberals would have wanted these funds to be invested in the procurement of jobs, because everyone who has a job in Austria brings important things for this our society not to talk about the personal sensitivity of well-being, and as said: Every unemployed person is too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11611	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11632	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In my opinion, an active labour market policy is very important because it covers many areas. People who become unemployed help to find a job again, that's one part, but the other is that one is, so to speak, focusing on prevention rather than rehabilitation, which, as we know, is much cheaper in many areas. This means that one offers training in advance, takes money, invests in the education and training of people in order to make sure that one does not slip into unemployment at all, because then it is often too late. The successes of active labour market policies in recent years can be seen. In the previous year, about 55 000 people were considerably improved their chances for a job. A total of € 845 million has been entered into, for the various areas such as youth. In order for young people to be trained, they have to be exposed to 1 000 s per apprentice per year. [[Abg. Bullshit: Wrong!]] - What was wrong? [[Abg. Shopf: 1 000 S!]] 1 000 €, right! Thanks for the call, he was very constructive! 1 000 € per apprentice and year for apprenticeship promotion. In addition, the ‘Blum bonus’ was introduced: Per additional apprentice is available 400 € in the first year, 200 € in the second and 100 € in the third year. This has already caused a lot of things. A lot has also been done for the re-primary women, and this is also very important for women to contribute to making it easier for them to return to their workplace after a baby break and have it. It has only succeeded in bringing the unemployed back into employment. But this is not always easy when you drift far. That is why it is important to put more emphasis on prevention, as I said earlier, instead of rehabilitation, which is generally much cheaper. In the future, we should focus on active labour market policies in countries that may already be a little further in this area, such as Denmark, and enable workers to have a targeted and long-term re-training at times. It is essential to make available appropriate resources, as in the past. We have a great chance in the current economic growth that unemployment will be decimated in such a way that we achieve the goal of full employment. We must all work together to achieve full employment in Austria. We're on a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11683	It has now come up with a report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11705	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is true that we want to continue with this process the labour market funds that the AMS had available in 2006 for the next years, i.e. € 200 million that could be put on it this year, even in the next few years. This is important because, in 2006 alone, around 61,500 Austrians were able to qualify in an additional way in the way I believe and as I know, in total, very good AMS qualification programs. Mr Oellinger, we have been having this discussion for years and days, and you have so far remained guilty of any concrete evidence of quality defects. I would like to forward it to the ladies and gentlemen of the AMS, provided that what I am now saying is heard from you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to continue in the future. Also in international comparison, we are in terms of how much money there is for active labour market measures, well there, much better than in the past. We are already in the upper third of the industrialized countries with regard to gross domestic product, including the measures for activating labour market policies, and, as has been said, we have moved up. Including ESF funds, i.e. the European Social Fund, and my own budget, in 2006 and probably in 2007, we will spend pretty precise € 1 billion on active labour market policy – a record value where, as I said, it will remain, ladies and gentlemen, too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The graph presented to me by Mr Neubauer refers to the 2005 data, since the increased appropriations for 2006 are not included. I suppose that's the difference. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now we have fallen from the third last place to the sixth last!]] Mr Oellinger, as you obviously did not hear my reply to your question yesterday in the Committee: ESF funds for 2007 remain almost identical to those for 2006. Plan for 2006: €56 million, for 2007: from today's point of view, €54 million, that is quite the case. This will be the basis for continuing positive labour market developments in the next few months, together with a strong record growth, and, as I assume, for years to come. We are on our way back to full employment, we want to be back there in 2010. This is possible with good growth. We already have full employment in about half of Austria, in half of the Austrian County Headquarters and thus regional AMS business areas, according to Eurostat data, a three-way forward. Whole federal states such as Upper Austria already have de facto full employment. The further to the west, the happier the situation looks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Approximately half of the encouraging development on the labour market comes from these additional labour market measures, from the additional qualification programmes. That is why it is good that we have excellent growth, good that we have significantly improved and increased resources for active labour market policies in 2007. And this makes me very optimistic for the labour market development of next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11750	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11772	Madam President. Valuable Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One of the biggest concerns of the Austrians is the concern about the workplace, especially the young people, the professional beginner – many also with good testimonies, the experience that they also have to wait a very long time for many applications to find an adequate job. With a wealth of measures it is necessary to combat unemployment. The tax relief of workers, the tax relief of small and medium-sized enterprises, on whose shoulders the most important tax burden is imposed, can increase purchasing power. I would particularly like to point out the importance of this for the labour market, for job security, but also for job creation, through investment promotion, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. A further measure to strengthen the labour market is certainly also essential and effective to support the necessary expansion of infrastructure as well as research and development. Another area of great importance, particularly for the future and young people, is modern education policy. The vocational orientation in schools should not be just Alibi. There are some very good examples; this is also a task that will lead to greater and wider success. Today's agenda item deals with the targeted action of the AMS. The funds requested are part of an active economic and labour market policy, an important part of appropriate targets and appropriate programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect, after the decision of the AMS funds, the important resources for the AMS, rapid treatment and rapid agreement on the further points that are necessary to substantially reduce unemployment, especially youth unemployment, in order to achieve full employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11814	As the next speaker, I should like to speak to the honourable Member. Requested time: also 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11835	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer – I don't see him right now – said that unemployment is rising earlier. - We all know that's not right. Unemployment has fallen by about 23 000 people less than a year ago, or by 10%. We have more than 58 000 employees than we had a year ago. In the case of the under 25s, it is even 12.5 percent to which unemployment has fallen. This is primarily due to the above-average growth of the Austrian economy in comparison to other countries, i.e. a merit of our businesses, employers, employees in the enterprises that have contributed with their excellent performance, but supported by two specific policy areas in which we have been particularly active in recent years: on the one hand, a location policy with discharges for every form and size of companies in the tax field, but also in the field of research and development. This has, of course, had a significant positive impact on economic development. Secondly, a labour market policy in which we have once again put €200 million on top of the 2005 trend towards the high sum for active labour market policy. Now we are going through this legislative decision and continue writing these funds for 2007, because there are really positive things like the “flower premium” which, for example, has led to an increase of about 7 percent among apprentices. Mr Steier pointed out earlier that he would like to see other weightings or even more money for very concrete measures. I mean, one has proved itself. If we talk about strengthening and strengthening priorities, perhaps in one area: that we could have done so in particular where we have already begun, namely in the area of operational integration and in support, even in the area of financial support. This is in the direction of job-related education and training. The job coaching that we have started about the AMS is also timely in the first few successes. I believe that this too is an area that will surely be strengthened and strengthened by the AMS in the future. All in all, I think we're on the right path: We support the economy on its growth path with our policy measures, and we provide the AMS with sufficient resources, especially for those who are difficult to integrate into the enterprises, and we provide sufficient money, in particular, for training, for qualification measures, for integration and integration measures. I would ask you to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11878	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11899	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we will today accept the request for special funding for the AMS labour market policy. We welcome the recognition that it takes more money to get more money into the hands of job seekers and, above all, the many young people seeking employment, to enable additional training, additional skills. Significant measures, genuinely meaningful measures are essential here. And it's clear: This requires more money, more money and more support. But above all one needs: meaningful support and meaningful assistance from the AMS. But how does reality look? – Orientation courses, application training without end for young people as well as older ones. I have here a mail from a 60-year-old man who is forced to complete an application training. Does anyone really believe that a well-layed CV or a smart rhetoric will help this man to get a job? Or: I have another mail from a 49-year-old lady. She would like to take out training as a tourist leader, has very good qualifications in the language field and has also worked abroad as a tourist leader. She's not paid for this training. The interesting thing is that a colleague of hers, about the same age, with fewer qualifications, but with the luck of living in another district, with another expert, gets the same training very well paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it is really sad that everyone of us actually knows a person with their experiences he could continue this list. And it's always stories of arbitrariness, of random decisions, of incomprehensible decisions. There are stories of countless courses in the IT field, of job coachings, but unfortunately they are also stories of enormous money and energy waste. And that's sad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not just sad, it's mostly annoyed, because that's wasting. We Greens welcome in principle special resources for the AMS. But please finally consider what it makes sense to spend this money! We Greens also have concrete proposals. There are, for example, measures in the field of experimental labour market policies, which we would very much welcome. We have a model, the “model 10,000”. – This idea is not new. There was already something similar in the eighties, in the early nineties. There have been job creations that can be continued successfully today. In concrete terms, this looks like: The State pays the support of concrete employment projects for two thirds of the employment costs in the first year. These are non-profit projects. Such projects – and this is the point! – people can convey the so important practical professional experience and they can above all: They can return self-confidence. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Yes, we need more money for active labour market policies. But, please, be a little more committed, a little more courageous and perhaps a little more experimental when it comes to what we are doing for concrete measures! Please no more application trainings for statistics only! We need real opportunities for jobs-seeking people in this country. That's what they expect from us. We owe this to the too many job seekers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e11980	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12025	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Economic growth and thus jobs also depend on the mood. As in some cases very negative mood can be made, we have certainly experienced this in recent months. Nevertheless, in October 2006, we had around 59 000 more people in employment than in the year before, which is very pleasing. The path we have taken in labour market policy was a good one, is a good one and is also a very successful one. In order to continue in this way, we now decide on special funds of € 204 million for the labour market service. There are also constant discussions between large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. I think everyone is doing his very well for themselves. But 85 percent of employees are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises. Despite everything, every single unemployed person is one too much. Therefore, I am very glad that there are many different projects on the part of the AMS in order to really respond to the individual needs of each individual. These projects are very targeted where training is carried out in coordination with the enterprises. A single project currently in operation in Lower Austria, where in the pre-Christmas season Women made available free of charge in trade I think it's a very good thing to be. This month, workers will have the opportunity to get to know each other better, and it will certainly be some sort of fixed job. The annual targets in each AMS district office have of course also raised the challenge for employees, but they are very well perceived by them. One goal that we have set ourselves and which has already been achieved is to reduce the average length of stay in unemployment. This has already fallen, and we arrived at 95 days at the end of October 2006, and in October 2005 it was 12 more days. The development of unemployment is also very positive in all the federal states. We all know that in today's time the qualification of job seekers is the crucial component in the decision for or against the recruitment of a new employee. It is therefore very important that we constantly offer training and training measures and that they are also adopted. A major issue was and is also always the age unemployment. There has also been some improvement. The number of unemployed over 49 years of age fell by 8 percent in October 2006 with 39,758 compared to October 2005. And especially here, small and medium-sized enterprises are very important again, because older workers are always finding a place there to pass on their knowledge in the process of work and, above all, in the training process. In particular, apprenticeship training has always been a very important topic for us. The many measures in recent years, such as the Schnupper teaching, the extension of the Schnupper teaching, the apprenticeship bonus or the apprenticeship promotion have taken place. This year we have 6.1 percent more apprenticeship contracts than in October 2005. Above all, we have managed to train around 127 000 young people in this year's businesses. This means that we have an apprenticeship that we had for the last time over 12 years. – So a really great result through our policy! I would like to thank all the people, all the companies, all the institutions that have helped to implement this and to live daily.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12077	The next speaker was Mr Jakob Auer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12101	Madam President. My dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Positive employment policy is probably one of the most important tasks, probably the most important task of political work. If we look at the facts about Austria's economic policy, the employment situation, about labour market policy a little, we can say: This work deserves at least a very good one, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Sounds.]] Perhaps not everywhere in the whole federal area – that may be already. Perhaps it's not as perfect as it is sometimes represented by our side – that's true. But it is far better than has been said very often by the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I look at the outcome of the Federal State of Upper Austria from which I come, I am setting up an excellent labour market. It is a matter for the Commission of If you look at the ranking of those ten districts of Austria with the lowest unemployment problem, you can see that six counties come from Upper Austria with the lowest level of unemployment. – More evidence of a successful labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen, it probably does not need it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What was critically noted in this House? – The tax reform. It would only favour the big corporations and so on, it would be wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, if one now looks at the last tax forecast, the last tax estimate from the corporation tax, and finds that there is evidence here that an annual average growth rate of 5.8 percent in 2010 is to be observed, then it can only be said that it was a correct tax reform – in the interests of the economy, in the interests of location policy, in the interests of employees! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Mr Weinzinger! You're from Upper Austria yourself. Be proud of this successful federal country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has been said in this House for Easter enlargement? – This too is a success story. Austria's economy has best taken advantage of these opportunities. In particular, the export figures show that we have best benefited from the opportunities from the middle of Europe. This is why there is also a contribution to the positive economic figures. Ladies and gentlemen! Today’s “standard ” writes in large letters: “Austria’s economy is growing much stronger than expected”. – Now you could put it differently: far better than all the unknowings of the opposition in spite of it! Let us be glad that the economy is growing this way, because the best labour market policy, the best employment guarantee are excellent economic data! We say about more resources for the AMS – that is no question at all! – and yes to better training programmes. In fact, I would also like to see my predecessor, Mrs Mag. Treasure from the Greens, make a compliment that has explicitly and correctly pointed out that some training program is really to be questioned at the AMS. On the whole, however, excellent work is being done. There is nothing that could not be improved yet. – Of course, this is also true for this area, no question at all. You have had the right to question some of the training programme on the part of the AMS, Mrs. Schatz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look forward to the success of economic data, we are delighted by the falling unemployment, we are looking forward to a very positive employment situation, especially in the youth sector! We welcome this, because a successful economic policy, coupled with successful financial and budgetary policies, is ultimately also the best guarantee of a successful social policy. A positive milestone has been set for this social policy with today's decisions in the morning. All of this was possible on the basis of an excellent economic policy. Thank you for the approval of all the other four groups of this House on this point, namely the funds for the AMS, and also for the very positive, constructive and open climate in the budget committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12216	Next, Mr. Dr. Sonnberger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12238	Madam President. Federal Minister! Estimated State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to start with a thanking the employees of the AMS. They have done successful work in recent years and have developed the AMS into a flexible, service-oriented company. The number of self-employed workers is 3.3 million – that is record employment! Financial resources for the AMS will be increased by €204 million, reaching the AMS active labour market policy funding budget in 2006 €845 million. – These are about 30 percent more funds and about 20 percent more people in action. In addition to other components, this active labour market policy is responsible for a favourable unemployment rate in the EU comparison. Our goal is and is full employment! If we in Upper Austria are so to speak by the Three and are in the process of reaching the Two, we are going towards full employment. The average duration of unemployment has been continuously reduced in recent years. There, too, the value of 78 days in Upper Austria is a top value, whereas Vienna – as in other data – is still very dependent on 151 days. Long-term unemployment has also fallen sharply, and the decision to make Mr Blum a government representative for apprentices has been a gold-right. The "Blum-Bonus" is a gift of opportunity for our young people. 38 552 people – 7.3 percent more – have started teaching this year. As from autumn 2005, 8 000 training places were made available under the Youth Training Insurance Act. It also includes 1 000 over-company training places, with two out of three young people being able to switch to a regular apprenticeship within one year. Qualification measures have been assessed by experts from the AMS and the social partners for efficiency, reliability and skills requested in the labour market and have been adopted unanimously in the AMS bodies. I can also refer to the apprenticeship campaign of the public service, and we must not forget the successful initiatives in the field of qualification for care professions. The higher the level of education, the lower the job risk. This is why, for example, attention should be paid primarily to the compulsory schooling group. In conclusion: This resolution will, I believe, make a successful labour market policy possible in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12290	Mr Lutz Weinzinger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on behalf of the Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12314	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have managed to agree to this proposal, although we know the shortcomings in the context of this special programme. But what have I heard for 30 minutes now? - A program of consecration. It can't be! They consecrate some of the things that haven't happened. They all know very well that this special programme has also had many mistakes and misdevelopments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have nevertheless decided to try it again, but we have certainly not meant that we must listen to consecrations here now. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, that's right!]] It would have been right if you had said that one or the other did not work, which needs to be improved and improved, that we need to consider how we can do more about getting unemployment as far as it is possible. Just to consecrate everything that was done was not the meaning of this thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12357	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 5.) [[15:47:06]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 16/A by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Act authorizing the Federal Government to assume liabilities of the federal government on the occasion of the implementation of the 2014 Winter Olympics (Olympia 2014 Authorization Act) (7 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12406	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12434	Madam President. Dearly united State Secretary on the Government Bank! Today the report of the Committee on Budgets on the question of liability for the application of the Olympic Games in Salzburg is on the agenda. We have already stressed and repeatedly made it clear that it is not a fundamental question whether or not green large-scale projects can agree to such as an Olympic application, because they can be answered with a clear yes, if the corresponding large-scale project is reasonably dimensioned if the population is behind it and if there is an ecology concept that is reasonable. The evidence is quite easy to provide: We have supported the application for the European Football Championship and, in this context, the budgetary coverings. - All this isn't the subject. However, the questions you have to ask are: What application is there? What exactly is it about? – There are at least two remarkable things, as we clarified in the last debate. There are several criteria for an Olympic application: On the one hand, the quality of the available sports facilities and the environment is important, but the question of whether the population is behind them is also taken into account. – That was always an argument brought by you. They will not be able to discuss away that the majority of the population has spoken against this application in the popular survey in the city of Salzburg as a central place of application. For this reason alone, a supplement for Austria is relatively unlikely. – One can speculate about it, but there are several criteria that are used. The IOC – this is what everyone who is looking at it more closely of course – is constantly trying to survey, explain and communicate with surveys what the mood is in the population. We know, however, that the competitors, Sochi in Russia and Pyeoşg in South Korea, both have significantly higher support in the population. They always ask the question of the potential benefit, because the application is also about the presentation of Austria as a sports country and as a tourist country. I'm just asking you – and you should think about it: If Salzburg recruits itself twice in a row, if you look at the application documents and try to interpret what can happen, because the probability of failure is quite high, then the question arises whether Salzburg and Austria as a sports country will succeed in two applications that – and this is our assessment – will fail with high probability, then really benefit from it. I can still remember how you said at your last application shortly before the decision in plenary that Salzburg is a top favorite, there are great opportunities for Salzburg to win. Then followed the disillusionment in giving – I believe it was in Prague – where we then saw pictures of the Secretary of State and, I believe, also of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic with long faces, because Austria has failed quite clumsily. Now we from Turin – and this is probably all still known – are subject to the doping affair and the reservations in this regard, apart from the case with Walter Mayer, who appeared in 2002. For all these reasons, I think it is highly likely that an IOC surcharge for Austria for 2014 is very unlikely. In conclusion, however, I would like to say something about these specific budget documents: So far, we have said, on the basis of the general assessment, that we cannot go along with it. But what is now available budgetaryly, Mr Maier, is budget Rodeo. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: What is it?]] - Budget Rodeo. House number budget if you want it that way. 500 million € less from TV revenue than budgeted. - That's right, isn't it? What's going on now? – You don’t say you need more revenue, but you simply delete expenses. €200 million was cut at the sports venues. On the other hand, there are €50 million of additional income from the tickets inside. In a year, they have been “fled there”, now this is in the budget. 500 million € less in TV revenue. Why is that so? – It is also clear that the interest in winter olympia has significantly decreased. You know as well as I do that winter sports events, that ski races are only transferred more in Austria. It's the only country that transfers ski racing live. This may be a topic for Austria. In all other countries, it is simply necessary to note that the interest is less. There is now a liability granted by the Federation for exceptional cases. The exceptional case is relatively easy to predict: If you simply delete €500 million of expenditure from the budget or cover it with revenue that is simply not available, then the extraordinary case will occur that the budget does not keep and therefore the federal liability becomes significantly higher. So it is no longer just a question of how to do so in general, but of finding it, that is clearly unscrupulous.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12475	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12497	Madam President. I also welcome the Secretary of State, which is to be united, quite cordially. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From our point of view, Salzburg is on the best way to a good application for the 2014 Winter Olympics. Yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, we discussed the issues of budgetary relevance, but also other issues seriously and very long ago. [[Abg. Oils: But without answer! The Secretary of State doesn't say anything!]] There have been problems, and one of the main problems - I admit - was the problem, however, which has been eliminated since yesterday, that the International Olympic Committee has reduced the revenue from television rights during a ongoing procedure. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, however, the Supervisory Board met in Salzburg, and after long discussions, the Supervisory Board decided a balanced budget of €772 million for the performance of the 2014 Winter Olympics, Salzburg should receive the award. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's a realistic budget. This budget can also be realized because Salzburg is in contrast – and I emphasize that! – the competitors such as Sochi and Pyeongchang already have existing facilities. Those who have dealt with our competitors will realize that all plants have to be rebuilt in South Korea. The same applies to Sochi. There the lifts and the ice halls need to be rebuilt as well as the facilities for the alpine area. Not so in Austria! It is therefore also possible to carry out the Winter Olympics with this budget. The games are to take place in the sports world of Amadé, in Bishops' Courts and – I would like to highlight this explicitly! – also in neighboring Bavaria, where we can carry out the toboggan competition and also the Bobbewerbe. Therefore, we do not need to rebuild these plants – and this is ecologically meaningful – in Austria. I therefore believe that this concept is a useful one and can assure the President of the Austrian Olympic Committee, Dr. Leo Wallner, whom I would like to welcome very warmly here, that we will support the Salzburg project with all our means – the Social Democratic Government, but also the other Members who agree to this request today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address some of the arguments of the Green Group. For the approval of the population: It must be clearly stated that the overall mood in the country of Salzburg was always per Olympic. In the city of Salzburg, it has 11 percent – I emphasize: of 11 percent of the eligible population! – however, given a close majority for a no. [[Abg. May. Honey: 60 percent say no!]] Our task is to convince the population and at the same time ensure that, in certain cases or in unforeseen events, corresponding liability exists. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is now being implemented with this bill. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Olympia is important not only for Salzburg, but also for Austria. It is an event that is crucial for Austrian sport – not only for alpine sports. It is a worldwide event that is essential for tourism in Austria, for infrastructure and for employment. Olympia, however, is also a contribution to international understanding. Those who have experienced the World Cup in Germany this year have seen the contribution of sports to international understanding. [[Abg. Brosz: But the comparison is already quite clear!]] We too in Salzburg and we Austrians should make a contribution to international understanding and contribute to peace in this world with the Olympic Games. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to our request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12578	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12599	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Wallner! There has been an Olympic movement in Salzburg since 1997. Mr Maier has already raised the objections of the Greens, but I would also like to raise an objection from Mr Brosz: ==References====External links== In October 1997, there was an 80 percent agreement in Salzburg, and in the city of Salzburg more than 60 percent, but the Greens were not there at the time. I think there's always a reason that the greens aren't there at Olympia. [[Abg. Brosz: Super traffic concept, isn't it?]] It is true, however, that we want to try to get the greens into the boat, too, because Olympia is a project – we have shown it in Salzburg – that connects people and that has led to a strong close-up between city and country as early as 1997. It was gratifying, as was the case in the movement on the occasion of the first application at that time already a whole country was behind such an application, and now it is gratifying, as well as most of the political groups and also the people in the country of Salzburg and also throughout Austria – for there is also an Austrian-wide survey of how the people in Austria stand at Olympic Games, with a consistently positive result of almost 80 percent – are behind this project, and now we are still receiving the support of the Federal Government, and that is very encouraging. Of course, I am grateful to all those who support the Olympia project in Salzburg, and I also think that the cooperation between the political groups has moved a lot, not only in the country of Salzburg, but also at the Austrian level. I would also like to say that the federal liability, which we decide today, is not an outright liability – that is, for financial risks arising from mismanagement – but is a liability for unforeseen events, which would only enter into force if the Olympic Games were cancelled. We're not that far. We are in an application phase, and this is about meeting these requirements of the International Olympic Committee – because the IOC demands a number of guarantees and liabilities. And with this liability support, we have the strongest package that we can present to the IOC in this regard. I would also like to say a few things about the budget, namely in the relationship that 120 experts have worked on this budget and that every single number can be stored with many detailed calculations. It's checked by the IOC, it's the numbers of experts checked, and I think we've got a decent, serious budget here to carry out the games. It is certainly lower than that of Sochi and Pyeoggiog, but it is certainly a better and one that will ensure that we can organize games à la Lillehammer: beautiful games where people are at the centre – where not money and the economy are at the centre, but humanity and sport. In the city of Salzburg there has been a mood of departure since the World Championships. We have seen that, as well as all of Austria, we can successfully conduct large-scale sporting events that we can also solve traffic problems. And Olympia in Salzburg can also be an engine for very many transport technical measures, which can continue to support the population in the future. We're a region of world call. Austria has proven that we have already been able to perform many major sporting events successfully. And so I'm sure that if we were to get the award in Guatemala in July 2007, we could perform this event perfectly. But one thing is still important to me, and that is that we have to go into this application together, and we need a strong captain. And I think team spirit is in demand in this team competition, because only when we work together on this goal of bringing the Olympic Games to Austria can we do so – for the youth, for tourism and for the acceleration of the projects in our country. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, I hope for a broad agreement. We're ready for the games! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12684	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Haubner is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Treasure reported in word. – Madam Member, you know the provisions: first of all, the points to be corrected, then the points to be corrected. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12711	I am correcting Mr Johann Maier's statement on the citizens' survey in the city of Salzburg. The question was: Should the city of Salzburg apply for the 2014 Winter Olympics? He spoke of a 11 per cent vote and a close majority voting against it. In fact, 21.79 percent of all Salzburgers took part in the vote and 60.53 percent voted clearly for No.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12744	Next, Mr Aspock. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12766	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! After the editorial We will now be able to accept the request if it has been changed by mistake. You know the scepticism, the economists in the Committee, which is basically in the Committee on Budgets, when it comes to making an unlimited declaration of liability. That is why my colleagues' initial scepticism in this committee. When looking closer, it turns out, of course, that this is unlimited liability for unforeseen events. And that unforeseen events cannot be budgeted, understands by itself. The limit can only be in the percentages: 40 percent country, 40 percent federal government, 10 percent city of Salzburg and 10 percent other municipalities. City and country have given their approval in Salzburg – with the votes of the Freeman, the Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party. The Greens weren't there. [[Call the ÖVP:As always!]] In the debate on the Landtags, however, we have once again expressly pointed out that the implementation of these Olympic Games must be carried out in accordance with the principles of economic efficiency, effectiveness and sparingness. And from the following quotations, you'll see that this also has its reason. I can not share the optimism of my previous speakers from Salzburg, that anyway everything will be palletti, even in view of what happened earlier, in the last application. Personally, a single Olympic great festival is known to me, which is really positive, that is, black numbers – that has nothing to do with the ÖVP – that was Salt Lake City; however, with a support that I remember from the history of that time: [[Call the ÖVP: Most of it!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Black numbers are always good!]] There were 25,000 Mormons who worked as volunteers. “Honorly” means to the Mormons that they not only receive nothing for the activity, but they also finance themselves from clothing to food to arrival and to stay in principle. – These were the only ones who really had a positive conclusion. In contrast, I am now bringing you some comments from the Salzburg Control Office report on the Olympic application for 2010. Unfortunately, in our latitudes it is always with the volunteers. I only bring two short quotes: Salzburg's application for the 2010 Olympia was a good business for some: Sports stars who made themselves strong for the games received – unfortunately, there were no Mormons! – €415,000. The Control Office also notes that the ‘payment of the testimonies’ was ‘great’ and that it corresponded to ‘the degree of awareness or advertising value and not the performance or the hoped-for resonance’. – Unfortunately, no Mormons here! – In addition, some of the Olympic ambassadors were able to calculate additional fees. And this tone, ladies and gentlemen, continues. So much about the very optimistic statements made by the previous speakers. In view of the fact that there is certainly an advertising value for the winter sports country of Salzburg with the Olympiad, and in the hope that there is not, as with many Olympics at the end of the day, quite disastrous economic results, we liberals have gone through to agree to the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12836	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. I just don't see him. – So no actual correction? [[Abg. Brosz: No, not the Kogler!]] [[Call the Greens:Brosz!]] Mr Brosz has thus referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12901	Madam President. Mr Haubner claimed that the Greens would not have been on board or opposed to the Olympic application for 2010. – That’s wrong! The Greens have submitted their own motion for a resolution for 2010 for the Olympic application, a request for support, which has in particular highlighted the need to take more account of ecological criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12929	Next, Mr Dolinschek. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12950	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary - the one for sport, the other for the country of Salzburg, the third for finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Salzburg is now applying for the 2014 Winter Olympics, alongside Pyeongchang in South Korea and the Russian city of Sochi. The IOC will decide on the venue in Guatemala in the first week of July 2007. Now the preparations have to be made. I have to say one thing: Salzburg certainly has experience in major events and is excellent for its orientation – that has proved Salzburg in the past. Especially because, as you know, the sports venues are mostly present and the infrastructure exists, you can only agree to this project as a sports enthusiast. Major events always include a certain risk, and so it was here. When one suddenly realized or learned that revenue from TV rights has been significantly reduced – that is a considerable sum – that the IOC wants to provide the organisers with much less money than expected in Salzburg, of course, these were new requirements, and this, of course, also requires a new planning and budgeting. There's no question: If you come down from € 765 million to just € 237 million, this is a huge difference! It certainly smoked the heads, and there were also various questions to be resolved, such as whether the previous commitment of the federal government on the question of liability was ultimately enough or not. Now it's clear. It has been particularly committed to Mr Sport State Secretary Karl Schweitzer in this area, and I would also like to thank him for having been so committed to this question that this has finally been done, namely that the liability, as has already been explained by several previous speakers, is now 40 percent of the federal government, 40 percent of the country, 10 percent of the city of Salzburg and 10 percent of the organizing communities. Of course it always says: everything that can be calculated, only: A risk regarding unforeseen – which cannot be excluded – can simply not be calculated! It's not that easy. I'm actually glad that this is happening now. We can be proud that the city of Salzburg is applying for this major event, and I hope that Salzburg will receive the award from the International Olympic Committee. We should all take a step together so that Salzburg will receive this Olympic competition as well!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e12989	It now has Mr. State Secretary Mag. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13011	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. It is unfortunate that the Greens will once again not be able to overcome this Olympic application. [[Abg. Ollinger: Oh, now he's starting again!]] – Mr Oellinger, it is true that every tenth job in Austria is located in the field of sport. [[Call to the Greens: Through the Olympic Games?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: But not by the Olympic application!]] And this fact, Mr Oellinger, is certainly also due to the fact that the Republic of Austria has acquired an excellent reputation in recent decades when it comes to applying for international sporting events, then organizing and holding them. You know just as well as I do, for example, that the Innsbruck Games have contributed to the fact that Tyrol has become this classic winter sports country for many European tourists, and that, for example, the Schliewspielen in Schladming have contributed to the enormous economic impetus of this region and today stands where this region is located in the tourism sector, which is far ahead. We will experience this with the European Football Championship in 2008, that this sporting event will also be a major economic engine and will have many positive effects for Austria in a wide range of areas. The same is to be expected from the Salzburg Olympic Games in 2014. That is why it would be good if one agreed that we support all of this application and also, as part of this application, submit ourselves to the best of knowledge and conscience to make this application optimal. This has actually happened now, precisely with the creation of this budget. As I mean, the budget is quite a success. And if you're talking about a reduction in TV revenue here, that's not right: The International Olympic Committee has guaranteed a total of 485 million US dollars only from TV and advertising revenue by the main sponsors – but as a lower limit. In addition, there can be more. And that's 39 percent more than the previous application for the 2010 games, where the greens were still on board. – I would just like to remind you of this, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Brosz:... is the application inside?]] So a significant increase by 39 percent, as regards only this revenue from TV and advertising rights! Overall, this budget is a very, very good, balanced – although, I believe, there are still some possibilities in it to be saved. That is why I would also like to say critically that venues have been chosen, which one can still think about. I don't think it's the last conclusion to wisdom, if – I don't know where this decision has taken – you decide to build an ice stadium in Puch, although there is not even an ice hockey club there, while in Zell am See the successful club there has been trying to expand its stadium for years. I think you should think about it again. To invest € 48 million in a stadium, which in reality cannot be reused, is not the optimal approach. If the mayor of Puch learns that he should finance a third there, it will probably cut him out of his socks. The same, I think, must also be noted when it comes to building this ice ring in Salzburg. Innzell is 40 kilometers away! One should also have the size to talk to the inncellers about whether one cannot carry out these competitions in this internationally recognized competition. Here too, there would be a lot to save. And the public funds are not unlimited, you should also take this into account in Salzburg. I am therefore in a criticism that I would like to make here: I believe that it cannot be that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Mayor of the City of Salzburg, should make his decisions lonely and alone. Instead, we should ensure that common decisions are taken after a detailed discussion. Whenever he dared to go alone, the application of Salzburg has come into criticism again at once, it has again been discussed publicly in a way that we do not want it to be, it has been questioned again. We from the federal government did everything we could to get this application back on track once again on the day we got it, just as the “Press” writes today: Full power ahead! The wind blows again from the back for the application of Salzburg, and this should not be countercared by an autist over and over again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13084	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13116	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Estimated State Secretary! The Olympic application Salzburg 2014 is certainly something for which very, very many people in Austria give heart, for which they will really work with great use, because it is for all of us a great hanging sign in the whole world – and that certainly is not only in the sports sector, but very probably also in the economic and, above all, in the tourist sector, for which we have done a lot in recent years. Austria has just presented itself as an excellent event country at major events. We are currently only in the application process, but I am somehow hurt if we do not really close this application here in the House because I think that it will have to be a joint effort to actually win this application. Yesterday, the Committee discussed this very intensively: Give us, please, the chance for this great project in Salzburg, here in our beautiful Austria! Especially when you consider what excellent cooperation has already taken place in the Land of Salzburg and today also together with the Confederation, if the Federation, the Land, the City of Salzburg and, above all, the executive communities behind it and together with many dedicated and active people take part in this event, I think that this false liability, which we decide today, will give only a little security to the people who throw themselves into this event with great commitment. I think that this is also an excellent proof of how Austria really does sport. As the Landesskiverbands President of Lower Austria, I naturally wish that we also receive the award for the application, so that we can celebrate many great successes at the 2004 Olympic Games in Salzburg. [[Abg. Oils: Uh, clear!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13166	Next, Mr. State Secretary Mag. Mainoni in word. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13187	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Olympia is an opportunity for Salzburg, as we have heard several times today. But I add: Olympia is an opportunity for all of Austria! If the Federation assumes liability here, it is not a gift to Salzburg, but in reality it is nothing but a consequence of the realization that the holding of Olympic Games in Salzburg at the same time means that the Olympic Games are held in Austria. Austria is at the heart of the world public with a lot of things, but especially with some things. This is on the one hand tourism, tourism, on the other hand it is, of course, Austria's economic location; but Austria is also a great sports nation in the face of the world public. I am thinking of the already twice-presentation of the Winter Olympics, I am thinking of the 2008 European Football Championship, which will be held with us, I am thinking of the World Championships, which were very successful in September of this year in Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen! Great athletes are ambassadors for sports and for the Austrian nation. With the presentation of these 2014 Olympic Games, we are worldwide ambassadors of a great sports nation, ambassadors of Austria as actually great sports nation. I am looking for all critics to take note of the reality: an approval of 87 percent of Austria, in Salzburg anyway. In the city of Salzburg, 11 or 21 percent – however – were the result of another survey, which I believe is missing a certain representation. In particular, it is addressed to the Greens: Ladies and gentlemen, please do not use a party-political formula for this very, very important question! It is planned by the Greens to make another public survey in the city of Salzburg. I would therefore ask you to take note of the proposal put forward here, namely this survey during the visit to the evaluation committee: This would be a very bad time, because we are here in the light of this evaluation committee and those who are supposed to decide whether or not the presentation takes place in Salzburg, here in Austria. That would certainly be a false signal. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, I would like to appeal to the FPÖ, which has gone through here to agree to join the Salzburg municipal council once again. Because the local council says that the project is unbelievable and irresponsible, and therefore Salzburg should be quick out of the application .................................................................................................... That is why I would ask you to act in Salzburg to make it clear, because every voice is a valuable voice and documents the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the Salzburg Olympic Games is important for Salzburg and a great throw for Salzburg, but it is also very, very important for the entire Austrian nation! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13238	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13270	Madam President. My esteemed Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Olympic idea is an idea that has prevailed worldwide as a contest of youth and as a contest of peoples. Getting Olympic Games in our country is certainly a great thing. Our country, our city Salzburg has applied. I believe that this Olympia project will bring very important impetus to the sports sector and that this project will bring motivation to young people. I think we have a very good constellation in Salzburg: We have a lot of role models – whether we are talking about Moser-Pröll, Hermann Maier, Michael Walchhofer, Michaela Kirchgasser, Marlies Schild, Hannes Reichelt, Andreas Schifferer, Felix Gottwald or Christoph Gruber. I could list very, very many of those who work as role models in this region. Salzburg is a beautiful country and has good conditions. The assessment of the appointment to the “Candidate City” has been carried out in accordance with eleven criteria, including security and finance. I think we should take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, there are therefore basic conditions for the award, and one of them is the liability of default. If the exposition communities, the city and the country of Salzburg contribute their part to this, I may appeal to the colleagues that the federal government also does not withdraw its responsibility, because I think I can say with good conscience that for Radstadt, for Altenmarkt, for Bishops' Courts or for Flachau, it is a more weighty piece than for the federal government if the arrest is to be taken over. If there are improvements, then of course you should also use them. I also believe that we should not only talk about the financial risks, but also about the financial and economic opportunities. The construction industry will benefit, tourism will benefit, jobs will be created and secured. It is an important project for Salzburg, and it will benefit not only the Pongau, but the whole country. It is an opportunity for Salzburg and an opportunity for Austria to present itself in the world. Voices So you agree to this request, and give Olympia a chance! This is also an opportunity for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13310	Mr Magistrate. Maier once again reported on speech. Desirable time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13348	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have come to know this idea by Olympia for this application, but also those who have made critical comments or have made us aware of what is to be improved. I am of the same opinion as Mr Haubner: that we must be able to team up, that we can only achieve this project together. That is why I do not think that it is necessary – and I would like to express this – to make statements as I have heard them from the Secretary of State vis-à-vis the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni: From me?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of which? There are three upstairs!]] Mr Schweitzer, I would therefore ask you to withdraw your statement to the mayor of the city of Salzburg, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13422	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 7 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Johann Maier, Peter Haubner, Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues, tabled an amendment which refers to the receipt of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Johann Maier, Peter Haubner, Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:31:44]] 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Ulrike Lunacek, colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Law on the Civil Pact (ZIP-G) and the General Civil Code, the Law on Rental Law, the Housing Property Act, the Civil Procedures Act, the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Criminal Law, Code, the Criminal Code, the Federal Tax Code, the Administrative Criminal Law, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law of Law, the Income Tax Act, the Settlement and Residence Act (Fremdenrechtspaket 2005), the Asylum Act 2005 (Fremdenrechtspaket 2005), the Foreign Police Act 2005 (Fremdenrechtspaket 2005) (3/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13517	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Mag. Lunacek, the word. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13544	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal is one that we have already tabled during the last legislative period. Now we are doing it again because there is still a massive need for action here. The civil pact is new for the new Members here in the house. That means I'm going to take a short look at what this is really all about. It's about two points. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We know that!]] - Yes, if you know about it, I'm very right. I am going to explain it anyway, Mr. Cot. In Austria, unlike many other European countries within and outside the EU, there is still a major disadvantage for people living in equal sex partnerships. They have almost no rights. From the Greens we have always been convinced that we do not want specific measures and laws that apply only to lesbians and gays, and have therefore created the bill of the Civil Pact, the ZIP, with which two flies can be taken at one time if one wants to do so. [[Call the ÖVP: On a strike!]] One is the disadvantages of heterosexual couples living in communities. They often believe that in areas such as inheritance law or tax law everything is equal to marriage. But that's not true, they have almost no rights. That is, we are going into those in the Civil Pact. This civil pact applies to lesbians, gays and heterosexual couples. The second area is exactly what I mentioned at the outset: discrimination against lesbians and gays. It's diverse, and many people don't know that at all. I experience this very often when I talk to people who say: You always want the same rights, and so on. – If I address the specific problems, they say: Aha, I didn't know that; that's unfair! What are some of these unfair points that still exist? – One concerns, for example, as I have already mentioned, inheritance law, inheritance tax and gift tax law. [[Abg. Großruck: If we abolish the gift tax...!]] Here, lesbian and gay living companions, who have lived in a community for ten, 20 or 30 years, are strangers for each other. [[Abg. May. Hakl: For example...!]] Yeah, right. But you can at least marry, you can't do that to lesbians and gays either – no chance! They are permanent strangers, even though they have been living together for fifty years. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter, you will then also speak. Now I ask you very specifically: Imagine what that would be like for you – I don't know about your specific civil status –: You would have a companion, and you knew that before the law you were treated like strangers. If one of you dies – which I do not hope – then you have to pay taxes in tax law as for someone totally foreign. [[Abg. Lens: Is it just about money?]] For example, that's a point. The duties of lesbians and gays living in partnerships have already been: the obligations to take care of each other, even in bad times. You may even know some couples who have been doing this for years. [[New call of the abg. Lentic.]] I know enough, and there are some people in your party who have lived exactly that way and who have been doing so for years and decades. But they don't have the rights. Another area: There are people who fall in love with people who do not come from Austria, perhaps even from a non-EU country. If they are heterosexual couples, then they can marry, and they have – although this has become difficult now, but after all – the opportunity to live here in Austria. But not like-sex couples! I know a few cases, it always tells me which one, for example, have studied here, recently an Austrian and a Romanian who said: When I finish studying, there's no chance for me to stay here! What do you say? So you've been living together for three or four years? Sage You then: Leave Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? So to speak: Austrians, because here they can't enter into a partnership!Unknown term type: "%s".? We want to eliminate this disadvantage with the ZIP. With our civil pact, Lesbians and gays would have the same rights, which also have heterosexual couples. We have another bill, which means: “The marriage opens for lesbians and gays”. – I know that this is something that lets up the emotions, which is probably not to be expected at the moment. I very much hope, however, that in the negotiations that are now taking place between SPÖ and ÖVP, the SPÖ will prevail so far that at least such a thing as a registered partnership is possible. I very much hope that this will finally be a little bit in this direction from the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are countries that are far beyond the European Union, which are more open. For example, there is an interior minister who, after the Constitutional Court has decided there that marriage should be opened to lesbians and gays, said: For me personally it was not very easy to represent that too, but this thing has changed my life! My husband and I, we both have grown personally in this debate! And she also said that she had been strengthened by this process – for the opening of marriage for lesbians and gays –. Do you know where that was? Guess! – In South Africa, a country in which dictatorship and apartheid ruled 20 years ago! Even there it is possible. Perhaps there are also some steps in this direction between SPÖ and ÖVP in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13652	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13673	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot add much to what Mr Lunacek has already said. I have only the problem that I myself do not know how to deal with this issue in such a way that in this House, in a non-discrimination-free way, in a humanistic way, as it is supposed to correspond to an open society, one is dealing with it, because I always notice again and again, even now, to the intercessions that one is sometimes dealing with indifferences which actually do not comply with the subject. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Essentially, it is about trying together to deal with people who feel affection for each other within the framework of the state. You can't do that by digging here and moving old prejudices. Therefore, I will rather choose the way of a request that you really deal with this topic and try, as far as possible, without prejudice and perhaps also in discussions with stakeholders in different groups, to approach the issue and really accept what it is all about. In fact, it is about the fact that there are affections and the role of the state cannot be that of saying: We do not want to ignore this quite simply – just as it always occurs in many other areas in the heterosexual partnership – but the state has quite simply, I believe, a role to play in dealing with this issue in a very open way. I therefore believe that the debate on this is absolutely necessary, and I would really like to ask everyone to leave the issue as far as possible here and to open up at least once to the point where you are listening to those concerned about it. If one deals with this issue in the European context, it is incomprehensible why in Austria there is still the argument that one should not recognize that, although it is in fact a matter of equality or effort, the state cannot recognise it, because in countries such as Switzerland or Spain, it is no longer a matter at all. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should really try to get off the arguments and say what it is, in fact, that you do not want to recognize here. There are not so few points, Mrs Fekter, where there are differences that are not justified. I ask you: Why should there be discrimination in the field of visit and information rights in the hospital? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is applicable law!]] Or: Hospice allowance, entry into the rental contract. – I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Why are there differences? And also in legal inheritance law? 20, 30 years live together partners. One dies. It doesn't make everyone a will. And you know, the indication that they can marry is cynicism of the special class. Why should no legal succession apply to persons who live together for 20 or 30 years? Why is this not to be recognized, Mrs Fekter? [[Abg. May. Hakl: abolish inheritance tax!]] Who forgives anything when you say: A legal institution will be created for these people. Mr. Hakl, who forgives? [[Abg. May. Hakl: The first wife and the children, for example!]] Absorbed! I do not want to say that European is the opposite of what you represent here, but you have to develop somewhere, Mrs Colleague – and if not for other reasons, then at least in the sense of humanism! I therefore hope that this discourse will take us a little further away from the position that we, colleague Hakl, unfortunately receive here again. A little reason, an opening and a chance to really help those people in their affection should exist. This is no longer a debate at all throughout the rest of Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13745	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13767	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject is not new and not necessary, Mrs Lunacek. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Very necessary!]] It is true that we believe that homosexual partnerships are communities of life. We do not want discrimination against communities of life, that is, heterosexual and homosexual communities to be subject to the same legal consequences. However, two men or two women do not qualify for us, so marriage does not come into question. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As far as your wish is concerned, homosexual couples could be favoured by inheritance tax: The Greens are supposed to abolish inheritance tax with us, then that is no longer a problem! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, your civil pact is also an absolutely unacceptable instrument for living communities. They thus deteriorate existing rights of life partners to an exorbitant extent. Let me give you just one example: Currently, the partner has a right of entry in the rental right. At the request of the Greens, it has this right of entry only if it has concluded a civil pact at the office of stand, i.e. if it goes to the office of stand and completes a civil pact there. [[Calls to the Greens.]] In 20 laws, you change rights that are now ex-legislative, i.e. by law, to some extent already have partners in life, insofar as they have more than these rights, if they decide to make a civil pact, that is to say, to order an offer, because you can only marry or conclude a civil pact. Therefore, the procedure must be observed at the office of stand, as in marriage, also in the civil pact. And you know very well: That's not the reality. The reality is that people make a clear decision: Either to the office with the corresponding legal consequences or not, because they do not want the legal consequences, except they are permitted by law. They take away these rights from these people, the life partners, the life-mates who already have rights, and send them to the Standing Office. – No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13835	The next item is Mrs Rosenkranz. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13859	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Today, you have again submitted a request to establish a so-called civil pact, which is largely the same as marriage – and that was part two or goal two of your efforts – as well. This also concerns the right to adoption of children. They do so under the pre-text to combat discrimination. I mean, the most important thing is to put the terms correctly, if you want a real result, and you don't put the terms right here. Discrimination would be an unfair and unfair treatment of equal things without objective justification, and this is not the case here. The fact that marriage has a special position in our society, a privilege, a privilege which we liberals at least very much desire, is shown by the fact that it has its own legal status. The fact that other conditions are not treated in the same way cannot therefore be regarded as discrimination. In the argument, I would very much like to appeal to a paper, a decision of the Assembly of the Congregation of the Faith of the 3. June 2003 – at the time the present Pope was the head of this Congregation of the Faith – first, because it follows the point of view in a truly crystal clear argument, second, because many members of this House would have to feel comfortable, because here an explicit appeal is formulated specifically to all the Catholic politicians of Europe – these are referred to expressly until various cases that might occur in their political life, and also ask for a certain behavior – and thirdly, because, as this paper says, it is a matter of matter relating to the natural law of morals. That is why the following arguments are presented not only to believers, “not to all those who are committed to promoting and protecting the common good of society. ” That is why I too, as an informed European, have been dealing with this paper. “The Church’s teaching on marriage...” – and this is clearly defined here – “is laying down a truth that... is recognized by all the great cultures of the world. Marriage is not any community of human persons. ... No ideology” – it is written, and so, I think, if you see it too – “can take the certainty of the human spirit that there is only a marriage between two persons of different sex...” Marriage is not comparable to other communities, because the crucial point is another: “The homosexual communities, ” it goes on to say, “are completely missing the biological and anthropological factors of marriage and family that could reasonably justify legal recognition of such communities. They are not able to adequately” – it refers to the potential progress of science – “to ensure the reproduction and survival of humanity”. I join him in: The fact that man and woman were created, as the Pope recently said, is not an invention of the Catholic Church. It follows – and this rejects the allegation of discrimination – that: "In order to support the legalisation of homosexual communities, one cannot rely on the principle of respect and non-discrimination of each person. A distinction between persons or the rejection of social recognition or benefit is unacceptable only if they contradict justice. If one does not acknowledge the social and legal status of marriage to the forms of life that are neither marital nor can be, this does not contradict justice, but is, on the contrary, demanded by it." That is logical and rigorous, and on the other hand, there is little to say. The appeal – so that it is heard in this House as well – to the Catholic politicians of Europe is: If homosexual communities are legally recognized or they become the Marriage is equivalent by granting them the rights of marriage, it is necessary to object clearly and clearly and to include any form of formal participation. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, according to our understanding, according to a liberal, free understanding, the state is not interested in relations between individuals. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is liberal about it?]] By the way, your civil pact does not always do so. There are unmarried siblings, especially the older generation, where many women were not married in the wake of two world wars – I have come to know such relationships myself in my relationship – but who have lived and cared for each other for each other for a lifetime, but who, of course, had no legal status. The liberal state is not interested in private relations between individuals. However, there is a relationship that is interested in him and which is drawn out in a very conscious privilege: This is marriage as a permanent relationship between a man and a woman with the focus on children, with the intention of bearing and raising children. I mean, that is beyond any faith and beyond any time of validity, and therefore we will also follow this direction and pursue this line, no matter what the spirit of the time shows to be a majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13907	The next Member is Mr Mag. Darmann. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13929	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can calm down immediately, it is the first reading, but we have probably already broken our heads on this subject. We will still have to discuss very carefully in the Committee and in the course of the course of this debate today, because this Green proposal not only provides for a civil pact in the event of sexual relations, but also for the possibility of a community with all the benefits of marriage. Thus, in addition to marriage and the virtually irregular community of life, marriage should be made possible second class. This is all the less understandable to me when, in parallel with the institution of marriage, a pact is called for, which is only entitled, favored, but not obliged, because in this request it is said, among other things: "There is no catalogue of duties for marriage, as the partners of a civil pact are to be able to make the way in which they live and shape their relationship with each other completely free and subjective. This means, for example, that there is no legal obligation to live together or to be faithful. In court resolution, a ‘voluntary conduct’ or ‘indebtedness’ is not examined by the court, it does not matter – unlike in marriage. After a judicial resolution of the Civil Pact, there is no longer any obligation to maintain the life partner in the standard of living.’ Therefore, the Civil Pact proposed by the Greens does not provide for any mutual obligations. But that means nothing but the fact that this civil pact can also be concluded for purely economic reasons, for example with regard to the benefits of social security or asylum. But this will also open the door and the door to abuse, especially since a solution of the pact will be possible without reason in agreement and almost from the first hour. Thus, a security of the life partner who temporarily gives up the profession for the care of the children would not be given in any way in a marriage of second class. This request raises a few further questions. For me, the proposal in the field of stepchildren's adoption by civil partners is not understandable. Here are the questions as to how the physical parent should be released from his duties or whether the child will lose his rights to the physical parent or whether there should be three or four parents. All of this is not solved, but should still be discussed very carefully. It is also contradictory for me in this context that, although there should be no mutual obligations, such as a right of maintenance after the civil pact has been dissolved, there is certainly a full right of inheritance and a full right of inheritance tax. We need to discuss this as well, as there is a real need for explanation. In this respect, the application itself leaves many questions open to the best of will. We from the BZÖ continue to call for a reform of family law in the interests of children, and we also feel that a revision of the marriage and divorce law is urgently needed. I therefore hope that during this legislative period we will continue to deal with this issue in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13977	The next item is the speech by Mr Lopatka. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e13998	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: The ÖVP needs special explanation!]] The EIA has no particular need for explanation here! What the EIA has, these are clear points of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party is a party that does not have to quote papal or curial writings, but we are enough to set out what we have set out in our programme of principles. That is why I am glad that we are discussing marriage and family again today, because this is already an area on which we pay particular attention. Given the demographic development we have, in view of the... [[Abg. Oillingers: Then you will do so, too, in view of the measures taken against foreign children!]] Mr Oellinger, on what happened here, there have been very clear statements by Minister Rauch-Kallat and by us. [[Abg. Oils: Consequenceless!]] If you have not noticed these, I will be happy to inform you afterwards. The fact is that we believe that marriage and family have a special position and are usually the best form of living together. We are not, however, the ones who hold fast to traditional traditions here. Of course, it is clear from the Austrian People's Party that there have been socio-political developments in recent decades – I do not evaluate them – so that marriages and families in the traditional form, which are also based on fidelity, fail again and again. Of course, we also have to judge this and get under control. Second point: We are opposed to any form of discrimination, including living communities. However, we do not consider it appropriate and appropriate to achieve equality in the form that there is equality in rights, but not in obligations. This is the great contradiction for me, and I do not understand my colleague, Mr Lunacek, if she is very clear in her request – and I may quote literally there: ‘The notion that one is responsible for the other and that one is no longer responsible for one’s own survival is incompatible with the Civil Pact. There is no legal interest in establishing new legal institutions for such life-forms.’; Does that mean to you that those who live together twice when one of them claims to stay at home are simply not taken into account in the Civil Pact in the legal institution you want to create here? I do not understand this because it would, of course, be a new form of discrimination. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Housewife discrimination!]] But where we certainly need to do something else, those concrete points where there is actually discrimination in individual laws. Of course, we are here willing to make our contribution as well. But we say quite clearly: For those for whom marriage is not in question, there are already sufficient opportunities in the field of civil law to ensure that, in accordance with the contract, voluntary agreements. There's enough space to find rules. Marriage is clearly a legal institution for us, which deals exclusively with heterosexual couples. We cannot, of course, give an agreement to a form of a civil pact, with which equality with marriage is almost done through the back door, equality in terms of rights, but not in terms of obligations. That's where we're different from the greens. The positive thing about today's first reading and this debate is that we are once again dealing with marriage and family, because this cannot be seen separately from this debate. This request makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14090	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Lunacek. Madam President, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation to be corrected, then the corrected one. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14117	Madam President. Mrs Fekter claimed that the Greens are taking the existing heterosexual life partners' rights with the Civil Pact proposal, and that they are doing so in a way that you have said so, in order to enter the Civil Pact. I'm actually correcting: The Civil Pact finally provides legal certainty for heterosexual communities which currently have almost no rights. and then they have something they can rely on. That would mean the ZIP.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14149	This was not an actual correction, Madam President. That was a representation, but no actual correction. The next item is the report by Mr Sonnberger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14177	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The ÖVP sees itself as a family party. Therefore, marriage for the ÖVP represents a clear guiding principle for family living together. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Austrian legal system explicitly separates the legal framework for marriage and living communities. The different legal effects of legal provisions for spouses and for living communities are consciously regulated by the legislator. This clear demarcation has a very high acceptance in the population and is also perceived in this way. A simultaneous commitment to tolerance and non-discrimination towards people with other life-designs who want to realize partner-care-wills in another form is no contradiction to this clear preference of a cohabitation concept, namely that of marriage. Both legal developments at European level and the recent adoption of the Austrian Equal Treatment Act prohibit discrimination on the grounds of gender orientation. In the case of new laws or innovations in the recent past, the Austrian legislator has already formulated and adapted communities of life neutrally. However, since the different legislation on matter defines terms such as “life partners” and “life-society” differently, a uniformization is desirable. This can be achieved in a wide range of areas, including non-discrimination-free definitions or formulations. Discrimination and legal certainty are to be established for aspects where gender equality has so far been treated discriminatoryly or indiscriminately against non-sex communities. Our aim is to eliminate those problems that have so far arisen through discriminatory legal treatment of non-sex and non-sex communities. Heterosexual and homosexual communities are to be treated equally by the legislator and in the implementation of the laws. That means that it is also a matter of equality between life partnerships, whether between man and woman, two men or two women.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14217	The next item is the report by Mr Fichtenbauer, with a two-minute voluntary speaking time limit. – Mr Commissioner, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14238	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am grasping the issue of extending the legal consequences of marriage to communities. From the point of view of the Freedom Party, one thing must be made clear: The liberal principles of the rule of law make it absolutely impossible for multiple forms of marriage law to exist. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is liberal about it?]] There is a marital right, and there is only a legal form, namely marriage. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does this have to do with liberalism?]] You seem to have a misunderstanding regarding the term ‘liberal’. Liberal means to treat the same thing and inequalities differently and to avoid discrimination. And it doesn't mean putting everything in according to the motto: I put my head in the hair clipping machine, and afterwards all have the same head; then it will work. That's not what it means! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The plan to equip living communities with the consequences of marital law is deeply unliberal, because it affects a restriction of freedom. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It must be reserved for people whether they want to carry the legal consequences of marriage consciously or not. And you want this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14309	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 3/A to the Committee on Justice. [[17:05:42]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Öllinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (AlVG) (4/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14349	We're on our way to the 10th. The item on the agenda and the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14373	Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for always participating in the debate by listening. We see this very well, because at some first readings, as in the case of unemployment insurance law, the interest of the members of the Federal Government in dealing with Parliament is obviously very low. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (pointing at Federal Minister Haubner who sits behind him in the bank series) The Social Minister is there!]] Yeah, but now she's sitting there as a Member! This is your problem, that you sit here once and sit there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not my problem!]] This is a rather unusual process. Please excuse me, it is good to see Members sitting here, too, who are ministers, but we would also like to have the appropriate ministers or ministers here. And in this case – a change in unemployment insurance law – unfortunately – I am saying, unfortunately – the Minister of Economic Affairs is now responsible, and no longer, as was the case before, the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the proposed amendment to the law on unemployment insurance is about reintroducing the ban on unemployment benefit and emergency aid for years to come. What does that mean? It is currently true that people – especially drastic in the case of emergency aid – are granted emergency aid at a certain level, we say at once €500, and this amount remains during the entire period of emergency aid – and there are certainly persons who receive emergency aid over a longer period of time, we say once four or five years – equal. There is no valorization. We believe that this valorization is not too much required. It is about adapting value to inflation – essentially – enabling these people to maintain their very low standard of living with the slight increases that will then be possible. Let us be quite honest – the Federal Minister himself has mentioned it; I do not know whether it was in the debate today, but yesterday in the Committee: Federal Minister Bartenstein, in the area of unemployment and emergency aid in Austria, we have almost the lowest rates of replacement in Europe. However, from the non-valorization of unemployment benefit and emergency aid, there is another consequence, a social-political consequence; however, this relates indirectly to the Federal Minister again. The federal states – however, only the federal state of Vienna and some cities – have an increased effort in the area of social assistance, because the federal government saves itself costs by refusing Valorization. The consequence of this is, of course, that a certain standard of living, especially for single and single persons, can no longer be secured and therefore must be covered by supplementary social assistance. In the moment when emergency aid is so to speak, the cost of social assistance should rise. However, it is only in large cities that there is some willingness to provide this supplementary social assistance, most of it in Vienna and the same in the country's capitals. In the country and in the smaller towns, the unemployed, who actually have the right to supplementary social assistance, have to cope with this problem themselves. I can only say: The Federal Government can make it so easy and say that we are saving at the expense of the countries and at the expense of the municipalities and in this case at the expense of social assistance. But it is certainly not fair to the person concerned. That is why I would ask you to come closer to our request for first reading, which I already know has some legal and linguistic weaknesses, and subsequently to support him in the committees.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14431	Mrs Silhavy is next spoken with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14452	Mr President. With his final sentence, Mr Oellinger has already said what I would like to start with: It will certainly be even more precise in one point or another in the Committee to discuss how one can actually achieve this. The fact is, however, that more and more people are at risk of poverty – and we have already talked about it today at another item on the agenda – also more and more people, who are actually in working age, but who, in part, have minor jobs, precarious jobs, receive benefits from an insurance scheme, namely from unemployment insurance, which they do not have before this poverty. to protect. We have the problem that we have more and more social assistance payments, not immediate permanent beneficiaries, but payments because people cannot live from the benefits they receive from another system. We have also noted several times that the level of unemployment benefit – I am not talking about emergency aid – is very low. We have already criticised this very clearly here, too. And I think we are all really required, in times when the labour market certainly does not become more stable, but even more flexible, in which people, as we know, are very often affected by unemployment, where average service conditions on average take a year to do something here, so that people do not permanently get into this poverty spiral. And I think that this Green approach is a very good approach that we can discuss here. I believe that minimum guarantees – and I say so now – are a way to keep a certain level, to raise people with transfers, with other benefits over this poverty threshold. It should not, as I think, be a question of whether we can afford this in a state as rich as Austria, but we must be able to afford it. But there are certain points to be discussed here. Finally, the request refers to the fact that an achieved level of which I have already claimed that it is not all too high does not get even lower, namely through inflation, through inflation, so to speak, by not adapting to the rate of inflation we have experienced. It should therefore be a certain guarantee mechanism that what is possible in terms of performance will not be lost by inflation rate and non-debt of this rate of inflation. Another point that seems to me to be important to me personally is the upgrading of benefits in addition to the upgrading of the basis of contributions, if they are taken over a longer period of time. We are all well-known, as I mean, and one can also read from the statistics that, especially in the case of long-term unemployment, the risk of poverty is particularly increasing, and a measure on the unemployment insurance law or on the proposed change modes would be a possibility that people would not have to enter the next system in order to survive at all. I very much hope that we will have a constructive discussion on this in the Committee. As has been said, we will certainly have to talk more carefully about whether this is actually the solution approach. There are several ways of bringing about a needs-oriented basic security, I say. I believe that in the meantime, it is unlikely that a party can no longer afford to discuss the subject of need-oriented minimum security or basic security seriously here, which is quite pleasing. I am already curious about the discussion in the Committee, I am already looking forward to it and I hope that we will all come to a good and constructive solution in the interests of the people for whom we want to do so. I believe that the point of approach, namely the Greens' request, is once a good basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14510	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14533	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger, we will come closer to this request, and the EIA is also of fundamental importance to this issue. But we also have different access to some things in this area. It is important to us that performance is something worth it and that the factor of willingness to work is also taken into account. What do I mean by that? It is also important to us that there is targeted support, particularly for long-term unemployed, that the length of stay with the AMS becomes even shorter so that the unemployed people concerned can be reintroduced to the labour market relatively quickly. And of course this is also about the willingness to work, we know, and we want to help these people through work. That's why we have to do everything. In principle, this works well through the AMS, although there are shortcomings; we know that too. But the main objective must be that these unemployed people can be re-integrated into the work process as quickly as possible. And who wants to work and actively participate in job search needs to be supported as much as possible. We still need action, such as through an even better support and support for young people, for example in the search for jobs by the AMS – I would also like to see a caretaker, an AMS employee also participate in an interview, for example – or also through the revision of the rules of visibility. I'm still seeing fields that need to be revised. In fact, this application deals exclusively with the valorization of unemployment benefit and emergency aid. I would like to take a brief look at the much debated and debated basic security and simply bring in our solution proposal. In principle, we are opposed to an unemployed basic income for all under the principle of foundry. In the past, more needs-orientation and basic security have been mentioned. For this we are more likely to have. But we have here the following access and solution proposal for a life assurance, which, according to our proposal, is to be built on three pillars: Column one: Minimum pension for all. And today, I think, we have made an increase of €36 for the minimum pensioners, which is very likely to go in the right direction. That's the first step. But of course it is also about 25 000 people who are not currently entitled to a pension. And we think they should be covered here. Secondly, social assistance in the field of existential assistance. – Mr Oellinger, you have mentioned this: uniform national standards for the level and for the requirements of entitlement and a point of contact in the social administration. The need-orientation and the willingness to work of the persons concerned are important. This is naturally reflected here. But that is also an approach where, as I believe, we can reach an agreement. The third pillar is the reduction of additional wage costs in the low wage area. This, I believe, is another important factor, especially for those involved in lower incomes, that measures should be put in place in the area of non-tariff costs. And with that, work is being promoted again, and not only specifically unemployment. This is an important principle of the EIA and an important concern. I am also interested in the discussion in the Committee. The ÖVP will make a significant contribution here with our model, with our life assurance model, And I also hope that some of it can be taken over and there will be a common, good solution in the interests of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14588	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofer for 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14610	Mr President. High house! The loss of unemployment also affects many people today who have never expected it because the labour market has simply become harder. Each of you knows the famous 50-year-old or 40-year-old worker who has real difficulties today, once he is unemployed, to find a job again. You also have to clean up the argument that there are so many people who do not want to work and therefore are unemployed. That's not the case. The large majority of the unemployed want to work and is honestly trying to find a job, writes hundreds of applications, makes many job offers, but it simply does not succeed. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course also useful to provide for an index adjustment in the case of unemployment benefit, emergency aid and valorization. After all, money has been lost in this area in recent years, and whoever lives on the poverty threshold needs every cent, every euro needs support. However, if we are talking here about index adjustments, valorizations, we should in this context, in this policy field, also in the context of the care allowance and in the context of family benefits, allow these index adjustments, in the case of child care, in the case of family allowances. And we also need to look at how the financial resources now available are used. Unemployment in Austria costs us in about €7 billion a year, which is a lot of money. I would also like to break a small lance for the policy of the Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein. Not all he's done in recent years was bad. But a lot of things have also gone wrong, you have to say. I would like to give a brief example of what goes on next. I have a report from the ORF of 2. ==References== Course participants of the AMS critique at the AMS. They say that in these courses knowledge is offered to them that they have long since. [[Abg. Steibl: What does this have to do with the AMS?]] There is a 53-year-old Trafikant who is already taking a course for the fourth time. This is about basic knowledge in computer, Word and Excel. You all have laptops, you know these programs, so you can handle them. He's already making this course for the fourth time. I'll continue and tell you what the head of the AMS says. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But that's not the Minister's fault!]] Then there is a computer system administrator, i.e. someone who knows well in the computer field, who has published a book himself in the publishing house for science and research in Berlin and has already completed this course for the second time. This is like Professor Van der Bellen listening in a class, which is the difference between doppik and camera music. The professor knows this, of course, just as the computer specialist knows what Word and what Excel are. That is why we need to make better use of the funds here. Do you know what the head of this AMS – she comes from the stable of the ÖVP – said: [[Call the ÖVP:Stall!]] If we did not do anything, there would be too little budget, we would have the massive accusation of being passive and having no offers. And now, please, listen to this, she says: We have a third more resources this year, and we also need to see that we find enough people interested in the offer. So you send someone in the same course for the fourth time. That's where I think we can get better. It is wiser, therefore, that people who become innocently unemployed and sincerely strive to find a job are supported more financially and are really committed to preventing Alibi actions such as those I have described before and which are merely used to beautiful statistics.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14683	Mrs Haubner spoke next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14705	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us for the first reading deals with an important social policy issue and an important social policy problem, namely that there is no guarantee of value for unemployment benefits or emergency assistance benefits such as pensions or salary negotiations. That's fact. The fact is, however, that, especially in the context of the pension reform, times of unemployment, times of emergency in the future are important times for all under 50 years, which are counted as real contribution times for them. I think that was a necessary and important step. The question of valorization is certainly a question on which one can discuss what one needs to talk about, and I am therefore glad that it is only a first reading today. However, on behalf of my group, the BZÖ, I would like to say that it is equally important to take all measures to ensure that people can be in employment and that people come into new employment. We know that long-term unemployed people, who have special disabilities, are impaired because they are less qualified, have disabilities because they have a disability, and especially people who are older and fly out of the labour market if I may say so. [[Abg. Oils: You are right, but this is not an impairment, the old age!]] I think it is important that we do not just put the funds right in these three areas in the future. With today's decision on AMS funding, I believe we have taken an important step. I call on you to continue to extend those funds to the area of the integration of people with disabilities, especially in the field of disability billions, because we have had very good experience here. Having work has a lot to do with self-esteem, having work and being able to live self-determined is a quality to which every person in Austria is entitled. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to work on the framework conditions that are not only motivated to get into work or to stay active in working life, but also in difficult situations of life – and unemployment, like illness and accidents, is a life situation that is often threatening and difficult – we must continue to guarantee adequate security. But this adequate security must not develop in such a way that it becomes an unemployed basic income, for that is the wrong way. Security should exist where they need people temporarily. My group, the BZÖ, is also available for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14741	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14763	Mr President. High house! The demand of the Greens for the valorization of the AMS benefits may appear socially at first glance, but in reality this request goes completely beyond reality. Firstly, because this request is based on the principle of foundry, and secondly because it does not address the real problems of the AMS at all. The completely non-practice school and education problem leads to the fact that many young people cannot get into economic life at all even after they leave school. For years young people were driven into the AHS, and teaching professions were completely neglected. Today we face the paradoxical situation that on the one hand there are high unemployment rates, but on the other hand, businesses are desperately looking for qualified employees. And now, because of this lack, the economy is coming to the glorious idea of covering this lack of skilled workers by increasing the number of foreigners. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a completely different topic!]] The resultant guest unemployment is now causing costs, Mr. Ollinger, of half a billion euros per year. And we just can't afford that anymore. That is to say, the self-produced unemployed are constantly receiving the guest unemployed, which then land at the AMS, which is also in the end with its Latin. One is thinking only of the completely failed attempts to set new priorities with IT training programmes. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, if we simply increase all the AMS' money payments unreflected, we do not reduce the problem, but we increase it. That is why we must have the courage to talk about the fact that there are many people today who land in the field of employment in the working pair and, despite the daily work they do, are getting poorer and poorer. Therefore, valorizations according to your thinking, according to this casting pot principle are completely unfair and unsocial.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14797	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 4/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[17:30:33]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Proposal by Members Dieter Brosz, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the School Organisation Act (2/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14837	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is now a legislative proposal that would ensure something that has been in discussion for a long time, where there seems to be a consensus in the meantime, namely that the number of school students could and should be reduced to 25 directly and immediately in the compulsory school sector, at the start of the next school year. To the prehistory I am not yet quite clear how broad this consensus really is. For the request to which the colleagues of the ÖVP are now always referring and which has been decided before the election does not provide for any fixed binding. In this context, it has been agreed that the countries and the Federal Minister should discuss the possibility of a reduction to 25 during the next negotiations. A fixation of deadlines has not been planned. Secondly, it must also be said that in this discussion you have been repeatedly advised by the ÖVP that it is not a clear and fixed restriction on this 25 but that you should then give schools a free space that there should be the possibility, depending on the criterion, to go over it again. This is already a problem because we believe that the law will have to be interpreted accordingly. In fact, it was already clearly stated in the School Organisation Act that there would be a need for a reason if these maximum limits had been exceeded. However, this justification has never occurred in practice. Each time too many were inside, it was sufficient to state that there are no resources at all. This does not explicitly provide for the School Education Act and the School Organisation Act. Nevertheless, the ministry has acted in this way. It is important to us that, even if one lets a flexibilization inside in certain forms, which also has this bill, take the law seriously and that lack of resources are no reason to say then, then sit back inside, for then this could become a pretty toothless law. So, of course, the budgetary coverage needs to be carried out. It is important to note that there is a second request, namely a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to present a level plan which will also allow the number of students in higher schools to be reduced as quickly as possible in secondary schools. We did not make this very consciously, in contrast to the request made by Mr Westenthaler, in the same request, for a rather simple reason. The argument contained in your application statement says that there are declining numbers of students, of course this applies only to compulsory schools. In the higher education sector, we have exactly the opposite development that we have more students in commercial academies and HTLs despite low ages, because there is simply a greater demand there and there has been a significant increase in the number of students in the last five to ten years. There it is – and that was always an argument that the ÖVP has made since, as I mean, it was much more difficult to switch from one moment to another. The consequence would be that student rejections would have to be made if I said from one school year to the other, immediately less in the schools that have been used up. That is why we believe that the application as you have put it is difficult to implement. It looks different with us. In this application, there may be problems in agglomerations, in some cases in Vienna, and also in order to implement it organizationally, because the number of students did not fall there. On the other hand, the city of Vienna itself has taken a step and said 25 starting with the first classes of the respective school types are possible. So that should be feasible. In the case of higher schools, a level plan will be needed, which should be presented as well. Finally and on this occasion: I have already been quite annoyed by an issue that the Christian trade unionist group apparently left out last week – I don't know if you know it – where it is explicitly pointed out that there is an angry request from the green educational speaker, who does not provide for the school-school-number reduction in the AHS. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] That is, I think, a way of communicating, which is either based on ignorance or consciously misleading on the other side, because if two applications cannot be counted together, then the PISA competence of the respective issuer is more questionable than the application of the green club. By the way, we will also request that this be corrected. We shall also have legal review of this, because this form of representation is really a conscious error that should not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14927	The next item is Mr Ddr. Erwin Niederweiser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e14952	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of today, the safeguarding of ageing was in dignity, and now we are dealing with the security of the future in the field of education. The number 25 as a class student maximum has become a broad consensus theme from an original conflict theme. This has to do with two things: on the one hand, with the fact that a lot of time has passed since the first introduction and the situation has changed, and on the other hand, that of the first. October National Council elections and probably all the parties dealing with this issue have noticed that this desire is very much approved by parents and teachers and is also pedagogically acceptable. There have been very, very many applications for this. I would remind you that the first proposals I have remembered did not come from parliamentarians, but that the initiatives of the parent associations had already been in the middle of the late 1990s. As a result, an educational people's desire, which has also made it a central issue, and now it looks like the application and the request can ultimately be decided in a broad consensus. There is something else that I would like to point out. Some of the countries have taken steps ahead or have announced at least in their area that they want to reduce the number of school students. This is positive on the one hand because it exerts a certain amount of pressure, but I do not think it should be a permanent condition, because it is actually the task of this House and the Federal Legislator to create rules that guarantee a good quality of school for the whole of Austria, and not to allow the situation to occur then The federal states say yes, but if there are enough teachers or if the class sizes are such that we can teach, we also need to finance something. So I think this is a federal task, as is foreseen in the financial compensation. We define these classes in the School Organisation Act. We also submit the financing with the Federal Finance Act. We decide on the financial constitution and we have to take care of it. I am very grateful to Mr Brosz for pointing out that it is not really going anywhere immediately, but that we really need to take into account the possible negative effects. Mr Brosz mentioned this for the HTLs, for some of the AHS, the situation is similar, which is different from one city to another, where there are already too few places and where, in the event of an immediate reduction to 25 places, places cannot be immediately expanded immediately until September 2007. So I think it's also an ambitious project, and I'd be glad if there was broad consensus in the house that we'd start with compulsory schools, but also make a plan for the other schools, which is very good. But this is at the same time linked to an expansion plan of spatial resources. In part, there are school types particularly in higher education, where teachers are not sufficiently available. We have not only a teacher's unemployment, but also, for example, in some technical subjects, we have a significant lack. So it looks like a first consensus in education policy. This would be very welcome, because education policy is an important issue. The more we can decide here in consensus, the better it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15000	The next item is the report by Mr Amon, with a five-minute voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Niederweiser, I do not think that the reduction of the maximum number of class students was a conflict issue – because you said it turned from a conflict issue to a consensus issue. I believe that there was always consensus among all political groups, if I have this right in mind, that we want to achieve a reduction in the number of students – but the paths were quite different. [[Abg. Riepl: You never did it, that's the difference!]] I still believe that you have to look very closely at the way. Mr Riepl! It is not right for you to say that we have never done so, because in this context it is also about such a thing as contract fidelity. Because if the local authorities – the federal government, the Länder and the municipalities – in the context of financial compensation, in particular as regards compulsory schools, agree ratios, teachers/students ratios, and result in certain class sizes, then it is simply not serious and simply not serious if the Federation, as one of the contracting partners, unilaterally violates this agreement. I do not think this is serious, because, as you have to remember, the federal government is the only local authority that collects taxes, so to speak, then the distribution of these taxes is agreed within the framework of the financial compensation and then other local authorities would come to negotiate and say that they need more money there or there. I believe it is serious to bring all those involved in this process to a table and to address this challenge together with the financial compensatory partners. That is why, I believe, the path that the Federal Minister has taken, before the election on the basis of the resolution we have adopted here in the National Council, was to come to the Federal Republic of Germany to ask the Heads of State to put this issue on the agenda at one of the next meetings, so that we can achieve this common goal, which, I believe, connects us, of reducing the maximum number of students to 25. I think this path is quite right and we should do it. The question is whether there is a possibility of making it faster than the financial compensation is being negotiated. I would like to say a few things about the content. Mr Niederwieser meant that one had to combine the reduction of the maximum number of school students with a school construction offensive – I think he called it. I think you have to be a little careful. In some places, the situation will be such that a reduction in the maximum number of class students suddenly results in space shortages, which will no longer be given in just a few years, because of significantly weaker years. That is why what we have proposed, I think, namely, to ensure funding on the basis of 25 students per class, but that also says the Future Commission in its report, to give the implementation of this class school score of 25 to school autonomy. It may well be useful that at a school where there is a homogeneous group, it does not already share the 26th. That means, of course, you have to consider the division numbers and also the opening figures. I am very much in favour, however, of reducing the maximum number of school students to a target value of 25 on the basis of secure resources to the autonomy of the school. I think that makes sense. It is good that there is a destination here in the House of Consens. Our ways differ a little, but I believe that with good will and with the involvement of the financial compensatory partners, we will also achieve this common, educational and educational important objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15058	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, I am glad you came. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It is not that way, Mr Amon, that it would only be in the rooms. - Not in your cupboard. That's from the old
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15101	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15122	It's not like it's just in the rooms. There are also schools where there are empty rooms where clubs are in the classrooms and where there are combinations we know something like that from third-class gymnasium or from primary schools. I would like to focus on what are really the educational reasons why these 25 are so necessary as a schooling maximum. I don't know when you last talked to teachers about compulsory schools. I had a conversation with a high school teacher yesterday. She teaches physics. Numerous attempts to make with 30 children is almost impossible – no place, no means of care. This teacher teaches main subjects: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary There should be two teachers inside in 50 percent of the cases – we have to save, we have to supply free. So, normally, there's only one teacher inside. This means she has to come out with 30 students alone and promote them and demand them as it is so beautiful in the teaching requirements. That is, to demand the good ones so far that they feel really required, and to encourage the weaker ones in such a way that they come with the substance. This means in the final effect that these teachers are breaking up, trying all day, but then going home dissatisfied, because they once again failed to give each child individually what it needs, what they should actually do according to their requirements profile. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The situation becomes particularly obvious in a first class folk school, where one is used to the fact that children with very different levels come from children who can just keep a pencil to children who can already read perfectly. In smaller schools, the preschool class is often dissolved, then you can also care for these children. It can't be that it's only for lip confessions that education is worth us. That's just not enough. We need changes in the education system, which must be of value to us, and “something worth” means taking money for it. This also means: not a long way, no eternal processes, until we are so far, but implementation of the class student maximum of 25 as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15176	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. I put the watch on the desired 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15214	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The basic consensus on this question is certainly undisputed, but then it was. The problem, I think, must be considered much more differentiated. For example, when we look at rural areas, we note that there is really no such problem at all. Most schools, primary schools and primary schools in rural areas have much less than 25 pupils. [[Abg. Brosz: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] We have school classes in Tyrol, for example, with 7 students. This raises the question of how we will ensure the financing of many small and small schools in the medium term. For example, it is currently only guaranteed in the country of Tyrol because the country of Tyrol is also taking money into its hands. This means that we are simply maintaining rural structures, including the maintenance of small and micro-schools. In the urban area, this problem is much more differentiated. There it is, in fact, that the number of behavioural students is increasing dramatically in the primary schools. I am a teacher myself in a trade school and a trade academy and have to tell you one thing: For example, if the maximum number of students in the trade school is reduced to 25 and among the 25 pupils 25 percent are behavioural students, this reduction to 25 is hardly useful because the quarter of behavioral students are able to inhibit the teaching in such a way that they are not allowed to continue teaching. [[Abg. Dr. Rada: That's where you have to do a good class!]] That means you can reach too little here with a reduction to 25. We simply have to be much more flexible and distribute the hours, which means: If there are too many behavioural pupils in a class, the number of students in the class must be substantially lowered there and additional hours should be set up for educational funding needs. These hours are currently largely lacking, and these hours, if they are already intended for the care of disabled students, are used for the care of behaviorally discerning students, which in the latter consequence means that these hours are missing for disabled students. The third point that we have repeatedly mentioned is the share of students with non-German native languages in schools. We believe that this share may not exceed 30 percent. You know very well that we have schools in which the proportion of students with non-German mother tongue is 80, 90 percent, with the tendency that normal teaching is hardly possible in these classes and that students with German mother tongues are also massively under the wheels. This goes so far – which is very scary for me as a Tyrolean politician – that I have to read in the “Kronen Zeitung” that in Vienna, for example, discussions have already been held about not letting Nikolo come to school. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date]] I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that: As far as education policy is concerned, Mrs. Vice-Chairman Grete Laska in Vienna takes the view that many children are afraid of Nikolaus. – This is really strange to me as a Tyrolean. In Tyrol the children are at best afraid of the crampus, before which Nikolaus has not yet feared anyone in Tyrol! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I cordially invite Mrs. Laska to come to me to Tyrol, where she can experience that the children have radiant, fiery eyes when the Nicholas comes with gifts, and that the cramp may enter the living room only if the parents allow. I would ask you not to put the world on the head in this regard. I have already noticed today in the debate on pension increases that in Vienna seems to be expected to be different. 1.6% of pension increases seem to be more than 1.9 percent – I did not fully understand that either. Just as little do I understand that in Vienna the students are afraid of Nikolaus. With us in Tyrol, it is still such that they are afraid of the crampus. I ask all those who disagree to come to Tyrol to see how this works with us in Tyrol. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15291	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15312	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out here: In Upper Austria, no one fears Nikolaus, at best from the cramp. And I am glad that there is no request that we should debate today or decide whether Nikolaus and Krampus should continue in kindergartens and schools. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the first reading, we are dealing with an application which deals with the reduction of the maximum number of students, namely the reduction to 25 pupils. This, as my previous speakers have already said, is something about which there is broad consensus. I have looked at the various applications submitted before the election. On the basis of our initiative, the government of the last legislative period has also very strongly forced a reduction in the number of school students to 25. There are now also some other applications, and I think this is a necessary condition for good development, including the opportunities for our children to be educated. A reduction in the number of students in the classes not only enables a very target-oriented and efficient placement of basic skills, for example also in the primary school, but also in higher schools it is better to address the skills and the abilities of the individual. It has already been mentioned: Many students need an increased level of support. These support measures can, of course, be better implemented in smaller groups, or can be solved more easily and more frequently. That is why this is also an absolute improvement in quality for young people, for the children who spend a lot of time in school especially during the time when their personality and character are particularly marked – the school is, so to speak, a food point. So this is not just a quality improvement for teachers. Therefore, we from the BZÖ are in favour of a rapid implementation of the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25, as I said, in the sense of better opportunities for education, better qualifications. We have supported this with our own proposal, which is still being debated today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15362	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15383	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking myself for today's subject, which has been an important one for a very long time and has been an important one for social democracy. I have just said, in conversation with Mr Niederwieser, that That already in the 1990s, we also made progress towards reducing the number of students. What I remember very well – also as a school speaker of the Austrian children’s friends – are the educational people’s desire, which in 2001 – supported by 48 626 votes – advocated that the maximum number of students should be limited by 25 and the citizens’ initiative to secure the level of education in Austria with 90,000 signatures in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also an important topic for us. I think that at the moment we will do everything we can to speedily implement the reduction of the maximum schooling age together with many, many other urgently needed measures in the education system, which many people, especially children and parents, are burning under the nails. This should be an objective of the negotiations now under way, because it is clear to all that we have found a large-scale educational policy site here. And this large-scale educational policy area has to be dealt with with with with with with with by a first important step, the reduction of the maximum schooling levels. What is the impact of this reduction on pupils? What does it mean if we start with it first, especially in the field of compulsory education? – It means more individual support for the individual, but also smaller groups, because it must be clear to all of us that even in the divisional numbers it must be borne in mind that partitioning numbers, group sizes must be adjusted as well and it will not go down to 25 with the mere reduction of the class size. It's got to go hand in hand. Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, Mr Hauser, I would like to say: Smaller classes, of course, also mean a reduction in conflict potential, a reduction in violence. There is less stress for teachers, there is less stress for each student. This is an important measure to make school more viable and build on something that is always a vision of children's friends, but also of social democratic education policy, namely to understand school as a place of well-being. Ladies and gentlemen! Only then can people who work there – regardless of whether pupils or teachers – make progress with each other. Only then will learning be joyful, and only then will learning fall on fruitful ground. And that includes a lot of measures. As has been said, the reduction in the number of students is important, but it is also important that more space and more space be created for creativity and more movement in school, that there are more groups of inclination and non-binding exercises again. For what made students happy in the day - to - day course, we have been “saved away ” over the past few years. That is why this is also an important goal that we must not lose sight of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] A recent study of the Chamber of Workers tells us: 85 percent of the Austrians want to reduce the number of students for all the reasons I have mentioned. However, it is noted that this problem is only relevant in 18 percent of the classes, namely in compulsory schools, and that far more than half of the classes in Austria, which are in federal competence, are very likely to be affected by a massive need for reduction. In other words, there is the greatest need for action, because it cannot now be a competition between the federal states – similar to the wage dumping in the EU: Who is the fastest in implementing the measures, who is doing this the fastest and selling it best for itself? The Federation has to set the framework conditions for all Austrian children, because all Austrian children – please nice – are equally sweet to us and should be able to follow the common class in the same way in the classes with a smaller number of classrooms. There is now in all cases a great willingness to do so – and I am very glad that this is being negotiated in a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15458	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck, with a four-minute voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15480	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I think it is beyond question that we all want to do the same – various steps are being discussed. I am particularly pleased that the PISA study did not have to hold out for these measures today, as for everything before, because we now know that the PISA study is not the all-healing test instrument, that it has already been relativized, that – as today in the “New Volksblatt” stands, and rightly so! – there are other comparative values from the University of Friedrichshafen on behalf of the newspaper “Economist”. There is a need for me to point out that Austria has been interned with Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain and Holland in the preferred school group, followed by the middle-ranking - Finland, Ireland, France and Belgium - and by the seats, as it stands, Spain, Portugal, Germany and Italy. – You can see – this is literally said in it – there is also a different view of the Austrian school system than of the red PISA glasses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this must also be said that we agree that it is not for these reasons, but for other reasons – for educational reasons – that a reduction is necessary. The request of the Greens to lower the number of pupils from 25 to over 25 in primary and secondary schools is available. That would mean if the number 25 is exceeded, then there are two classes with 13 students each if I read it so correctly. Now, of course, you already have to relativize. Mr Amon said: Yeah, well, now we have to take a balanced look at that. There are schools that burst out of all the seams. I've been calculated by Grieskirchen's primary school today: There are 26 classes in the primary school. This would mean, if they were to come immediately, that eight new classes would have to be opened in addition. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: No! There's no such thing as that!]] – Of course there are! Of course there is that if I take this class student maximum! I am saying this because not only will a school be affected, but many will be affected – some who have a place are perhaps less affected, many who may already have to invest from all the seams. And the investors and the recipients of compulsory schools are the communities! I think it must be quite clear in the context of the financial compensation, in the context of the other measures to discuss with the communities, with the school holders, because I cannot imagine that every municipality can adapt its schools from today to tomorrow – if that is the way the Greens want it to be here in the request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we are calling for a process whereby the reduction is to take place gradually; You know our proposal: from 1st century onwards. Upgrading school level. We know that demographic development is meeting this trend, that it is less Students will be able to compensate for this. But you can't just say: So, that's what we're going to introduce tomorrow! This would be irresponsible and would not be financeable, I say quite clearly. It is therefore necessary to involve countries, municipalities and federations in all these considerations. That is why we also have a proposal that addresses all these needs and needs, and I hope that it will also be discussed and taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. Mr President, you will have nothing against it if I now point out, as a transition to my four-liner, that there is a business regulation point: After that, the Committees have been established, and I would like to point out that. We already have two committees in Parliament. I call them “Jagd Committees”, because they are not something else. In the community there is one – in Parliament we have two with the “hundred leaders” Count and Pilz. And I would like to end with a four-liner: Two hunting committees without a end now meet in Parliament. However, only a single man is standing on the red-blue-green firing plan. Halali has been blowing for days – fire free! To the grass hunt. This is the background of these two hunting committees, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15558	Mr Rada is speaking as the last speaker in this debate. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15579	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is, of course, too little time to look at the statements made by all my predecessors, but it is very interesting that Mr Amon, who was one of the pioneers of the 25th-number here in this House, has been rehearsed and – I say now as a Lower Austrian – the head of state of Lower Austria has discussed this again – and it is a good discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes...!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is his name and what party does he belong to?]] The head of state in Lower Austria, Mr Molterer – you should know what his name is! –, has brought that back into discussion. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Which party he belongs to, I would have liked to hear that!]] We are glad that he has put this into discussion and that the Even-Government Coalition is now also dealing with this instrument. It is a truly educational step in all these things that have already been tailor-made today – about individualization, about all the pedagogical things I don't even want to talk about anymore. Mrs Minister and all those who still have government responsibility! It's not that simple that you say you're sharing with the 26. Pupils! It's also about: How to do the service plan management? How to handle the head quarters, the number of students? – Currently it is 14.5 – it will not go out, that will not be possible! – And I don't hear of that! We will have to reduce these to 13 in order to enable the actual meeting of these needs, which we now want to give teachers and parents as a good gift before Christmas, to the service schedules – otherwise this will not go at all. [[Abg. Amon: We said this is not so easy!]] The time is too short, but one was suggested: It is also an essential problem of space for discussion! It will also be rebuilt in many areas of classrooms. – We will discuss all of this in this House. In principle, I am happy about this because we will be talking about all these things in the Committee. In principle, a positive intervention to get to this step.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15656	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 2/A to the Committee on Education. [[18:08:52]] 12. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues regarding a federal law establishing a federal law for the social protection of artists and repealing the existing K-SVFG (17/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15695	We reach the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Zinggl, receives the floor for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15722	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is hardly any more cultural policy discussion on the agenda today, in which this issue – social, financial security of artists – is not on the agenda, and there is hardly any more honours or awards in which this comes to light. Only last week on Saturday did the Nestroy award ceremony take place, in which the winners of the prize as a political call to us politicians addressed this very thing: How can artists be secured? Of course, the Künstler Sozialversicherungsgesetz exists – Mrs. Brinek will certainly defend this – but I can tell you: There is hardly anyone in the art scene who would agree. This completely goes beyond the reality of life of these people! I just mention two reasons why this is so. For example, if a filmmaker has made a good film and maybe benefits from it, but buys a gear, a camera, then it can happen very quickly that she falls under this limit, which is necessary to get the grant for the pension – and then has to repay this grant. That means that she has no money at first and, secondly, she has to repay her grant. Other reasons for falling below this limit: Diseases or child care, for example. However, an insurance that does not help those in need is not, I believe, insurance! The far more important reason why we believe that there is a need for action is that the active artists do not have anything of it in any way, and even somehow. Example: an author who writes for three years in a novel and does not know if this will be a success. There's no net at all. In Austria, there are many artists who live below the poverty line; in total, this is a professional group, which almost vegetates in the lower incomes district, one can say. I think that the proposal we have made to take a step in this area is one that should be discussed seriously, because it is really thought through. And we have also made a financing proposal, as well as a proposal to distinguish artists from others; we have also dealt with the method of payment. In any case, this is something that, as I mean, is resolved in the next legislative period, which is indifferent, as the next federal government will look forward to. That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen: Take a look at this proposal with us, because this one is definitely worthy of discussion! Perhaps together we will find a way to do something about this so that this problem can finally be solved. As before, it cannot go on anyway! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15777	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15798	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to agree with my previous speaker that there is massive criticism of the existing system of so-called artist social insurance, which was decided in 2000 by the ÖVP and the FPÖ. Criticism of this is more than legitimate, because adequate social protection was not created for the artists. We have repeatedly pointed out the existing shortcomings and problems that arise from this law's decision-making in 2000; unfortunately, our criticism and the artist's criticism of the coalition parties have hit deaf ears with you. For the so-called "Künstler-Socialversicherung" (Künstler-Social Insurance): The whole constitutes only a mere pension grant; Health and accident insurance is excluded. There is a minimum income limit, and especially artists who very little money is excluded as a result of this minimum income limit. If income limits are exceeded or exceeded, the grant must often be repaid years later. Recoverys due to signing are, of course, a particularly serious problem, as this concerns a group of people who are suffering financial difficulties anyway. What comes about with the so-called artist property, the text of the law gives a very narrow definition – and there is always great indignation and criticism of the artists. How does the situation look like today? – After months of examination by the Fund, at least 600 artists are affected by recoveries in relation to pension subsidies because they did not reach the required minimum income of €3 554.57 in 2001. Recoverys due to non-achievement are particularly problematic and include measures. The persons concerned may have made a request to the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds in the belief that they would exceed the lower income limit, perhaps – Mr Zinggl has already done so – invested in studios, perhaps in preparation for a large project, or otherwise they were in a difficult financial situation – and now the recoveries of this fund come. This, of course, makes their situation worse. This is grotesk, that is unacceptable – and that is certainly not in the sense of the legislator. Therefore, a change needs to be made quickly and an extension of social security for artists' social security needs to be made. This is certainly one of the most urgent tasks of the next Federal Government. Now to the request of the Greens, with which an artist protection law is required: The intention of this request is justified, because, as has already been said, the social and economic situation of artists is very often in the arrogance, because you are concerned with frequently changing incomes, the financial risk is high and their social security is often only inadequate. That is, so to speak, the reality of the life of those concerned. However, this problem cannot be solved by the model proposed by the Greens, which is contradictory and inexhaustible in many respects. In this context, I should like to quote the Council of Culture, which says: "With closer consideration, there are fundamental shortcomings. Interested persons of such basic security remained less than the minimum of existence in order to finance work and life. Moreover, the problem of multiple insurance will not necessarily be improved, partly even worse.” So that's not very thoughtful. The question of financing is unexplored and not thought out, because there is no data, there are no data available. Therefore, the funding of the whole can only be measured through the thumbs. However, it must also be seen that the working world has changed considerably in recent years. We are talking about precarization, flexibilization – and this concerns all the population groups. Therefore, we are generally acting by the SPÖ as a key objective of our policy for the introduction of needs-oriented basic security and for the sustainable fight against poverty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15871	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15895	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What is the starting point for the Greens' request? – The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz. I remind you: The Fund's mission is to grant grants to artists insured under the Industrial Social Security Act and to allocate the necessary funds. Who is an artist? This is very explicit, as opposed to the Greens' present proposal. An artist is – I quote – “who creates works of art in the fields of visual art, performing art, music, literature or in one of their contemporary forms (especially photography, film art, multimedia art, literary translation, sound art) based on his artistic competence as part of an artistic activity”. In this the approach is very different from that of the artist's security law of the Greens. The aim is to achieve income on the basis of an artistic effort. Ladies and gentlemen! Artistic effort – perhaps there are colleagues inside here who absolutely want to declare themselves someone who strives for artistic efforts: However, we would not benefit from the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz or from corresponding grants. [[Abg. Reheis: We won't need that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that without any further reason, but rather the serious difference. The regulation in the current Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz, on the basis of which grants are made, is very precise about the determination of what is valued as an artistic activity. Now I ask you to lean back, to think, to consider how the artistic effort is appreciated. To make this “unclean” criterion as a central element of a law linked to a grant of income is too uncertain to me as a legislator. . I believe that the colleague, Mr Muttonen, has also highlighted this central vulnerability in her dissenting opinion on this approach. Ladies and gentlemen, something more has been said by Mrs Muttonen, namely the change in the working world. – Now I would say: The working world outside artistic creation and artistic creation are already difficult to compare, and what is precarization and insecurity means time flexibility means something quite different for artistic creation. The standards of working time safety, the standards of income security, which you otherwise create on regulated, such as self-employed employment, you can, please, not usually also invest in artistic creation. You can't have meant that! Therefore, our proposal: The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz has proved its worth. Call me a law that is not in need of improvement or expansion! Finally, we started at zero. It is thanks to Secretary of State Morak that we were able to adopt this law at all. So evaluation, review, further development: yes – but probably or better: certainly not towards the creation of an income you are entitled to – through legal regulation based on artistic effort. I leave all the other flaws of this request and leave them to the further parliamentary treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15937	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e15959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Four minutes for art – I am almost inclined to quote an artist when it comes to art. I do not want to go out now, but in some way I am almost like “Serafinians” in this context. It is quite “wonderful” that we are talking here about the security of artists. But one must let the term “wonderful” break down on the tongue – it is a very ambiguous term. On the one hand, that means: It's wonderful! – probably for the ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, one must say, also “female” – on the other hand, this also means: It is also very questionable! It sounds “wonderful”, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about this security. And it sounds quite “wonderful” to those who basically want to define themselves about freedom, independence, self-determination, this freedom and this independence and this independence when we talk about material security. But – this is the crucial point, and then it becomes interesting – the devil is known to be in detail: What has now been presented does not really have anything to do with independence. Instead of independence and security, the proposal you have now presented is the opposite. What you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, want to do with this artist protection law – written with great I – is really nothing but an artist's dependency law. What does that mean? There is then a Commission which will distribute it in political terms and so on. So according to old tradition, as we already know from bad habits, there is a four-year plan. There is, as has been said, a Commission which is to spread all this politically – in good German, a Commission that continues what is rightly a bad side-effect also among the people outside, with the word “state artist”. That's what it's all about! The term ‘State artist’ and the institutionalisation of the ‘State artist’ should be extended, reinforced and cemented in a certain way. A political commission should exist where one then decides how it works – but where it is not about creating independence and security, but actually about cementing dependence. – This is exactly the opposite of a free art. This reminds me of centrally controlled plan economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, your Commission is an instrument for building up dependencies. And it's a very, very transparent game you're doing. I am pleased that Mr. Professor Van der Bellen is sitting there, because I can still remember how at the last session he almost hysterically raised himself into the history around Mr Nitsch. [[Abg. No, no, no!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Well, it was almost a hysterical outbreak you had there to defend the freedom of art. I have to tell you, Professor Van der Bellen: Completely Corrected You're up to the freedom of art. That's where we all agree. But the freedom of art also means the freedom of criticism of art. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we do not think otherwise as far as "Schütt- und Fäkalkünstler" is concerned, I would say, please, that you should spend so much toleration, also give us this freedom. [[Abg. Oellinger: The criticism must also be voiced!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you want – and I am not going to get rid of this suspicion – not security, but dependence. They don't want security, they want political control. You don't want security, but you want a steering tool more to be able to serve a client where you think that's yours especially well. Because of this, you can come with the cover of social thought, because we know exactly what is below: In reality, the pure party policy is! In reality, the world view and ideology you want to sell with it is. – That is not our agreement!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16039	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16060	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I worked for a lifetime in the field of the economy, for me, art in general is absolutely essential and essential to a country's culture. For me, therefore, it is out of dispute that art and also artists must be promoted. At this point I would like to start by looking back, because the creation of the artist and artist social insurance fund law has really given this government a well thought-out solution. [[Abg. Oils: That's how it looks!]] - Yes! Then: Since artists, ladies and gentlemen, either have an insurance after the ASVG or such after the GSVG, an evening of life in poverty has really been saved for them. [[Abg. Oilies: If they deserve enough, otherwise not!]] - No! I do not know whether everyone is aware that between 700 and 1 000 new applications for contribution grants have been submitted annually between 2002 and 2005. However, your request, Mr. Dr. Zinggl and friends, I accept that you simply want to ensure artists in general. And since, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I cannot agree to your request, because a monthly security of €900 – or even up to €900 – for everyone who sees himself as an artist would be a huge financial burden – let alone the administrative problems that would arise. We'd get rid of an avalanche of loads. Of course, there are many different ways to make money liquid. Much more difficult, however, is a fair distribution, namely: How to judge and by whom can art be judged or not? What I see as a work of art must not yet please you, Mr Zinggl, and it can also be reversed. I already know that it is in the nature of the matter that, especially if they are employed on a professional basis, artists do not have a real regular income, but the security law proposed by you is a little too far to me, because in your opinion, public funds should be used for it – and here we are against it! In order to create such a law as you have proposed in your application, it is not only necessary to have a serious financial burden, but also to have a much better-thinked Rules of Procedure, namely: How, when and who can be promoted? For example, the repayment in the event of an additional earnings in your application was not made at all. From today's point of view, your proposal for a law is insufficient and not thought into the last detail. The fact is for me: Art belongs to promoted – only: as you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, imagine this, we cannot say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16110	As the last one in this debate, Mr Reheis is speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16131	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Today, we have already decided with pride that the compensatory allowance rates will be increased, from 690 € to 726 €. The compensation allowance now allows pensioners to get a step further away from poverty. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, this must not only apply to pensioners, but also – across the entire population – to the artists. Our goal must be to introduce a general basic guarantee also in the arts field and also to enable the fight against poverty, so that artists also do not have to hang on to the hunger cloth, as some actually look like. The Curias and the evaluation of the art will continue to be maintained, but here, as is feared, no one can hide any support or security. Ladies and gentlemen, the independence of the artists mentioned here should continue to be maintained in the future. It should not be like I heard it out of the statements of some previous speakers that the artist should not bite the hand that feeds him, because otherwise he will not get any more money. It must not come that far! The freedom of criticism – this has also been mentioned here – must also apply to the artist. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Muttons and Green MEPs.]] The Greens' request that the “Federal Law should ensure the performance of financial grants to domestically insured artists up to a maximum amount of EUR 900 per month if, on their own account, they can acquire less than 12 times per year, is also removed from the basis of existence, from the minimum of existence, when the pension insurance, health insurance and accident insurance contributions are deducted. In your calculation example, where you expect a basic security of €900 per month, we have a contribution basis of €10 800 per year. Less pension insurance contributions of 15.25 percent or 1 647 €, health insurance contributions of 9.1 percent or 982.80 € and accident insurance contributions in the year 8 082.60 €. Thus, 673.55 € per month come out. The minimum existence has now been increased from € 690 to € 726. So you will also have to think about it in the next discussions – especially if you want to think about poverty reduction and basic security. [[Abg. Oils: Sure!]] [[Abg. Oils: Always ready!]] We will also move in this direction – I particularly, because I think that the security of artists should not be impeded both in their possibility of development and in their possibility of expression. Again: The hand she feeds may well be bitten if the criticism of the artists wants to express it. And that's what I'm standing for! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16190	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 17/A to the Committee on Culture. [[18:35:38]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (32/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16229	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Westenthaler, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16257	Mr President. High house! One can make it relatively short because essentially the debate has already taken place on the request of the Greens. – The benefits of a lower level of schooling are obvious: Individualisation, quality collection, efficient mediation, target-oriented approach to skills and talents. I just don't understand one thing: Why should not all these benefits and all these arguments – and therefore we have made a further request – also apply to the field of vocational schools, the BHS and also the educational educational institutions? This is not quite clear to me, but it can be explained in the Committee, because there are the same problems there. I know that then there are always room problems and that there are even ideas to force an excessive new school building now. I myself was at an HTL, and there I was also in a very large class, but just there one has the advantage that the teaching material is partly presented in different groups and always a differentiation is made. That means you have to look at this from case to case. But I believe that you can't do it exclusively to the compulsory schools, but then, when you do it, you have to do the whole thing and say: Yes, we want these 25, because it has advantages, and we want to go this way all the way and not half! And then you have to take this step. But, as has been said, we should look at this even more closely in committee meetings. I think it is important to mention one aspect here today that I think is essential: If you lower the maximum number of students and say that you go a way of better quality training, you can't on the other hand over the back door reduce the quality or performance again. But this would happen if you were to make a “unit wide ” if you were to speak only to the model of an entire school, to a school without differentiation. Then, too, we would have been faced with a levelling of performance in school – as we have always faced such demands, especially from social democracy, that performance should be levelled in this country. This would be the case with an unemployed basic income, because then the income of an employee who earns €1200 would lose value, because even someone who doesn't work would get €800. This would also be similar in school, because an undifferentiated overall school model, where everyone gets a “potting training”, is also a levelling of performance. – One has to face this, and a reduction in the number of students is something that raises quality and does not reduce it, and therefore it is good. Another point that is important to me – that was also raised by Mr Hauser from FPÖ – is a measure that is urgently needed: that we finally accept in the schools of the problem of the high proportion of children of non-German mother tongue. This government or the two government parties have adopted a resolution by a majority before the election – and it is a great success for our group that we have enforced – which demands that this figure be limited by 30 percent. Especially in the schools in Vienna – and we have talked to many teachers in the election campaign just as you do – the placement of the teaching material is a huge problem when most of the children in the school classes can no longer follow the teaching. In Vienna, Mrs. Lapp! It's you from the 11th. Come on, laugh at it. They obviously do not know the problems in schools there. Go and see how difficult it is to teach there if there is a 70 to 80 percent share of children with non-German mother tongues who do not understand and do not understand the teaching material! This, of course, also entails a levelling of the education of Austrian children. We don't want that! And that is why we will ensure that this demand in our motion for a resolution introduces a restriction, namely that there may be only a 30 percent share of children with non-German native language in a school class, which is also implemented in the new government. We will look very closely at the fact that this is really happening – because this will ultimately help Both: the foreign children as well as the Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16311	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl for 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I am pleased that you are attending the debate on the first readings here in the house! Mr Westenthaler, we all welcomed an initiative by your party some time ago on this really important issue of reducing the number of students. Better now than not at all, but actually an initiative of your party and the old federal government would have been necessary as a consequence of the PISA study, as a consequence of the discussion on the recommendations of the Future Commission. At the time, all experts have recommended many measures, including those – but unfortunately, your party is also responsible for a standstill in this Causa. In September, you adopted a resolution, although you could have joined earlier on a request from us, which should have been agreed here in the House in September. This would have brought the advantage that we could have made preparations for the next school year. With your procedure, this was pushed to the long bank. Unfortunately – at least a year of students in much too big classes is sitting again! At least for some time now we have agreed on the objective, unfortunately not always agreed on the urgency. In recent years, politics has unfortunately gone in the opposite direction. By reducing teacher and teacher posts, teachers were less and less able to care for the individual children and were confronted with ever larger classes, which has caused many parents great concern. After all, there is now a consensus on this objective of reducing the maximum number of students. This is also a matter in the coalition negotiations, and I am very optimistic that we will come to a solution. It would be even more important to come to a common solution here in the house at all. As far as the children of non-German native languages are concerned, I consider the restriction to 30 percent generally for all classes for no child-friendly procedure. For example, taking the children across Vienna in buses, from one district to another, I consider as not particularly useful and as no particularly good measure for the children. In Vienna, 111 teachers have also been employed for this school year to care for these children in small groups. The reduction in the number of students is important, but I think that can't remain the only goal to better promote children. We need a bunch of measures to do this. As a consequence of the PISA study, we need to find a solution for improved early promotion, also undisputed by all experts. We propose to discuss the pre-school year in this context and, as I believe, to implement it as soon as possible. We need to take further steps to improve individual support for children in schools. Tag: more accompanying teachers and better support lessons. Yes, Mr Westenthaler, the improvement of equal opportunities is also a very important issue, and no one here speaks of the ‘in potting school’, which you really know very well. No one wants an undifferentiated total school, But it is a common school with a very strong internally differentiated support to encourage the children wherever they need it. I am looking forward to corresponding constructive debates in the teaching committee and I am glad that we have reached at least one consensus on the issue of the reduction of the maximum number of students in the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16384	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16405	Mr President. Mrs Kuntzl, I am glad that you are also addressing the fact that in the field of education there is more to it, namely a bundle of measures, as you have said, to ensure good quality of education in Austria. If one follows the educational debate here today, one could get the impression that the education programme in the coming years would consist of finding the all-healing remedy alone with the reduction of the maximum number of students. I don't think that's it! In this context, I would like to refer to an article that was published yesterday in the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ (Salzburger Nachrichten). A school researcher at the University of Bochum has commented on the question of reducing the maximum number of students and, like all of us in the meantime, means that this is a good material initiative, it has been absolutely undisputed anyway. But she also says, and this is to be read here: “If you were to create small classes but keep up the usual teaching, schooling would not get better. ... Small classes are only helpful if the teaching is individually designed.” – I think that must be our goal. If today individual parties make various applications here again, then of course this is their right and also legitimate, but the position has been clear since June: that it is a necessity to reduce the maximum number of students. The EIA has proposed that this should be done in the context of the financial compensation, because we simply believe that all the partners involved – and this includes the countries and the municipalities – must speak with a voice. The country of Lower Austria, for example, is progressing as an example by taking the initiative itself. There is already the decision that from the school year 2007/2008 the maximum number of school students of 25 should apply. Lower Austria has provided this scheme for primary schools, primary schools and polytechnic courses. I can agree with Mr Westenthal's opinion that it would also be useful in future to involve the higher schools, but if the country of Lower Austria progressed with such a good example and implemented this scheme as a model for the first time, this is a great thing. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – The Lower Austrians may clap, of course. I find something strange then, for example, when the country of Salzburg says on the other side: That's none of our business. We just need more money from the federal government. We ourselves do not think about how we can shape meaningful classes. - I think this is a bit cheap. In my opinion, Mrs Burgstaller should take a bit of an example here in the country of Lower Austria, for how is it possible for a federal country itself to provide resources and take initiatives and not to do so to another country? In addition, the following comments were made: It was only yesterday that a request from the SPÖ in my home country Burgenland was rescinded by the ÖVP. This application included the reduction of the maximum number of students, but the SPÖ did not support it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But it was done in Styria! There was the Amon against it, yet we did it!]] I think that this is a bit of a double-edged sword, and I would ask you from the SPÖ to negotiate with the countries, to support this meaningful initiative on the part of the federal government. If we can also initiate a teacher feedback in addition to reducing the maximum number of students in the future, allow a direct choice of teachers, make direct the appointment of directors more direct by the SGA and make the educational direction more meaningful, then this is the right way in the field of education. These are the measures proposed by our Minister for Education during the last legislative period, and I would also like to ask for support here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16448	The next speaker is Mr Brosz for 2 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16469	Mr President. Minister for Education! I have already tried to explain that these two applications differ in that we believe that in compulsory schooling, the implementation of the reduction in the maximum number of students could be very rapid, even with the next school year, while the higher schools certainly need a medium-term plan. I find it quite interesting – once again referring to the previous debate – what Mrs. Schasching said, namely, that it was already in the 1990s the SPÖ's attempt to reduce the number of school students. – If I remember correctly, the SPÖ was in the government at the time. Mr Westenthaler has now put forward the proposal, stating that a reduction in the number of school students is necessary. – You have been in the government for the last six to seven years. The ÖVP now also says it should be lowered. So there has apparently been a consensus in Austria for 15 years, between the major parties, that the number of students should be reduced, but: Nothing ever happened! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, in the nineties there were also phases in which it was different. The hope is that it will facilitate the implementation of the situation where schooling schooling numbers in the field of compulsory schooling are going down in Austria. Mrs Fuhrmann's comments on this matter were interesting in so far as she referred to higher schools. – Yes, I say, only: Then you can’t come up with the excuse “Lander Negotiations! ” As far as higher schools are concerned, there are no financial compensatory negotiations. If you want to reduce the school's maximum numbers in the higher schools, you can't say it has to be negotiated with the head of state, but then you have to do this here, because it's about the federal budget. At least I'll invite you to do the same. – In your argument, Mrs Fuhrmann, this did not fit in with the reference to the countries. You already know how this is argued in the countries, for example in Lower Austria, where it says: Yes, we do it now – and the covenant will take it! – By the way, Lower Austria in 2008 has country elections, so there are it is probably a certain connection why this measure is thought of at the beginning of the next school year: six months before the country elections after it has been called for seven years, one does not need it. It's nice and good, I just hope that's a sustainable measure. In any case, the funding will be available for the next few years. What the Federal Budget is about – and that is the absurdity – it is noted that the figures for compulsory school teachers fall from year to year, in absolute terms: In the last two years, we have had €100 million less available in the budget. But then to say that the country should jump, not for additional expenditure, but for the reduction of compulsory schooling, is already absurd. There is a need to talk about cost sharing, but financing and a stopover in the education system would be urgently needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16523	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Time limit: 3 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16545	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals support this request concerning the reduction of the maximum number of students in primary and secondary schools to 25, because this is also covered by our ideas and objectives. In our opinion, such a reduction gives teachers the opportunity to respond better to the talents of each student and to promote them much better. This, ladies and gentlemen, is of particular importance for a country like Austria. Education is certainly the most important factor for the young people of our country and their future. But what we also need – and this has to be said here – is the commitment to performance and the commitment to elites. And that certainly is not contrary to the claim for higher education for all. Only well-trained young people have a future chance in an increasingly globalized world. If you are dealing with school today, if you are dealing with the reduction of the maximum number of students per class, you must not close your eyes to other school developments; this has already been noted by a previous speaker. The high proportion of children of migrants in the Austrian schools, especially in the agglomerations, is a subject before which one cannot close his eyes. We liberals argue that the proportion of foreign children with non-German mother tongues in compulsory schools should not exceed the 30 percent mark, as the learning progress for our own children should not be threatened. However, if this should not be possible in agglomeration centres – not only for Vienna, not only for Graz and not just for Linz – for organizational reasons, ladies and gentlemen, you have to think about setting up your own classes so that Austrian students are not economically disadvantaged. We liberals also say quite clearly: Children need to master the German language sufficiently in order to be admitted to regular education. This should be ensured by standardized tests even before training. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, can only be a real integration of migrants into a central European society – and not the building of parallel society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We do not want to become France; we do not want to experience events like in the suburbs of Paris! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16596	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Magistrate has spoken for a moment. Reported for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16617	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who spoke in front of me! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has a name!]] “Real integration” is not to lock out individual children or send them across the city. These are not measures that lead to integration and co-operation! There you are really on the wood road – and there you do not speak for integration in our country, but sow discord and conflict. And this is something we reject from the SPÖ vehement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If enough resources are available, children can learn together, then children can benefit from each other together and also get to know other languages. It's not the way you see it, namely: Integration is not possible, and all those children who have no “Austrian look” or no Austrian debate are locked away! – On the contrary, the education system must accept this challenge, there must be enough resources for all children, whether children of Austrian origin, migrant children or children with special educational needs. But FPÖ and BZÖ throw everything into a big pot, call this one-tier school, stir around with their stereotyped formulations – no news and no more resources come out, as we have seen in recent years, when the BZÖ was still in the government, because the BZÖ has raised it to art to fall by lying down. In this it is truly true master. In the course of the election campaign, all parties have recognised that education is a very important area, an important topic, but education is an enormously important prerequisite for good future opportunities for our children. The BZÖ came only after the election and submitted a request – which we are discussing today – for the reduction of the maximum number of students. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was before the election!]] We have a whole bunch of measures for education in mind. This begins at pre-school and is about the demands of young people in the area of ‘cool school’, where it is about seeing school as an experience place, as a place of learning, as a place of social competence, communication with one another. It is also important that each individual child is promoted and demanded. This must not only be an example or simply so stated, but also the possibilities of teachers and the system must be equipped in such a way that this can also be implemented. It cannot be that the children need to adapt to savings systems, and with them also the teachers and teachers who finance numerous follow-up hours and even learn many hours with the children in order to achieve the learning goal, but it is about providing the best possible system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we deal with the field of education. Very exciting will certainly be the question of what the path that leads to a good result can look like. And since we have achieved first place in the National Council elections, I am confident in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16673	Mr Kurzmann spoke on an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and ask you to take the floor for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16698	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor claimed that I want to lock away migrants' children. – “Rodging away” is the term I firmly guard against! In this context, I have merely said: If more than a third are in a class of migrant children, then it is to be considered if one does not set up one's own school classes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16725	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 32/A to the Committee on Education. [[19:00:14]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Childcare Act (33/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16764	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Haubner, for his excellent speech for five minutes, which is at the same time the remaining speaking time of the Group. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16792	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare benefits are one of the most important family benefits in Austria, in addition to family allowances, in addition to benefits in kind such as children's leave, school vouchers, apprentices' home trips and the like. In recent years, we have increased family benefits so much that we reach those target groups that especially need these benefits, but also at the top of the European average. We provide €5.3 billion a year in family benefits for families who have their food point here in Austria. The childcare allowance is a successful model, introduced in 2002, and has proved itself to this day: 170 000 child care workers, more than a third of whom are new members: Housewives, students. As part of an OGM survey, we were able to see great satisfaction: 61 percent of the respondents say it's better than the karenz money. Of the under 30-year-olds, 77 percent say it's a major improvement, and of the people who care for it, it says 75 percent. We have started a paradigm change in family policy with the introduction of the childcare allowance and the related benefits of health insurance and pension insurance, especially as regards the recognition of family benefits. The childcare allowance has established itself as an important and independent family benefit. The evaluation has shown that the childcare allowance increases the freedom of choice, has shown that the compatibility of work and family is promoted, but above all it has shown that the childcare allowance reduces the risk of poverty because especially families with several children are more affected by the risk of poverty. [[Abg. Riepl: Poverty has risen!]] The large number of family benefits, especially the multi-child supplement, has shown the same effect. [[Abg. Riepl: The Caritas says poverty has risen!]] We have found that the father's share, although slow, is rising, but of course still worthy of improvement. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] As part of the evaluation, we were also able to see that many parents and respondents wish there were changes at the limit of earning: towards increase or removal. Why? Because there are groups of women and men who have so far not benefited from the childcare allowance, and these are especially single parents who live in a community of life and where the partner or partner has too high an income. It is mainly women who carry out qualified part-time work. They are self-employed parents who still have other incomes, and they are mainly widows or widowers who, with widows' or widowers' pension or widowers' pension and, if necessary, their own incomes, exceed the amount of earnings they earn. That is why our request for the abolition of the credit threshold is an important and correct step in the further development of the childcare allowance, because we want everyone to receive the childcare allowance, we want the option to become more attractive for the fathers, we want an even better reconciliation of work and family, and above all we want a simple administration, because there is a lot of money to save. In this sense, I would ask you to study closely today's request for first reading and to follow our suggestions in the further debate, because the development of family benefits for families in our country, where the child care allowance takes an important and central place, will not go by any way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16845	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16866	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam honourable Member and Federal Minister Haubner, this was already a very self-evident metamorphosis, which we were now allowed to observe during your appearance. In recent years, you have been sitting here on the government bank as the competent minister responsible for precisely such reforms and have not seen any need. Of us have always been the incitements, the demands, the proposals, and you have said: no need! Now, as a Member of Parliament, you are standing at this speaker's desk and you see this very need. This roll might do you good. To the limit of trust: Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, to a reform of the limit, but not to pour out the child with the bath, not to go from one extreme to the other! In your comments, you referred to the reasons for your request for the evaluation of the child care allowance submitted by your ministry. The evaluation you have commissioned includes the goals you have set yourself with the childcare allowance, and shows you that you have not achieved the goals you have set yourself with the child care allowance for each of these goals. Increased freedom of choice: happened only for groups with greater freedom of design, for self-employed and farmers, not for self-employed workers. Positive impulses for women's working life, promotion of re-entry: The opposite happened! Fewer women come back to work. Increase the participation of fathers: Her study says nothing, no new incentives for fathers, because the part-time scheme has been abolished, and also criticises the current regulation of the limit of earnability. I also think that one should do something here, but that much more would be necessary, and that the path you are taking in this reform is not the targeting one, and that is not because a mere, a replacement-free removal of the commitment limit would open up the problem, that the last half-year, which is essentially open to men and is not usually consumed, would probably be used by the fathers without the fathers – and this concern also your own study, Mrs. Federal Minister – having to take more care of the children in some way or to put the children without an evil intention, but this regulation would in fact be an invitation to do so. Her own study, Mrs. Haubner, says that the men participate in the financial reference of the child care allowance, without becoming more involved in domestic work or in childcare. This means: a very, very expensive measure without achieving a politically meaningful effect. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you for it now or are you against it?]] That's why I think that's called pouring the child out with the bath. We want to offer the parents more choice. We think that we need a commitment system that gives legal certainty – that is once the first point, because that is much too confusing now – and a choice between either a monetary limit, as now – about the height you might be able to talk about – or a time limit where those mothers or fathers who reduce their working time do not have a monetary limit to ensure an actual step towards genuine family policy measures, in order to promote young fathers that parents then also care for their children in the time of child money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16906	Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16929	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the childcare allowance is a central part of our family policy. We have thus brought about a suspension in order to limit or eliminate financial hardships that happen to young families. Childcare is also an important measure for the compatibility of work and family. This evaluation study, which has now been addressed, says a few things – unfortunately I do not know them in detail because we have only received one extract and the whole study is not yet available to the ÖVP club – for example, that the childcare allowance makes many satisfied, that the amount of earnings has to be covered and that 25 percent of women are working during the childcare period. I believe that we must recognize the trend of time and develop this proven system of childcare allowance. That is why child care money is also an important point in the ongoing government negotiations, and I am pleased to be able to proceed a little further in the joint negotiations for the benefit of families, parents and children. But one thing is very important to me, and I would like to say this as a family speaker: We have the FLAF, the family compensation fund, which finances these measures as family benefits. And I would never want to experience what I had to experience again, for example, that the amount of cash was reduced from 24 months to 18 months, because not so much money was available or because of the value of money. It is important to me that family benefits that the child care allowance in this form – not now fixed at 24 months, 36 months – remains for all mothers, whether or not full housewife, student, entrepreneur or employee. You know for yourself that the Family Allowance Fund is expected to have a loss of € 434 million for 2006. I would like to say a few more words about the current discussion that took place yesterday and today all day. We must not forget that it is about children, about children who are born in Austria by mothers who are legally living in Austria. It cannot be – we have looked at it very carefully today – that the slower work of an authority is at the expense of the rights of mothers and children. Here you can check in all cases how to ensure that these mothers and children come to the rights they have.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16966	Mrs Mandak is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e16988	Madam President. High house! Mrs Steibl, you're late to see what you've done and what you've done with what you've decided in the context of the Foreign Law Act. You have agreed, you have supported it – now you have the effects. And now do it. It's like it's just because the authorities are working so slowly. That makes the situation worse, but for the base, the law you have made, you are responsible and not the authorities that have to do it now. I also think your role, Mrs Haubner, is a strange one in this case. Before that you were sitting on the government bank as a minister, now you are sitting as a Member of Parliament and making a request concerning an area for which you are still in charge, and documenting that you, as a minister, obviously do not get what you would like as a Member. It's rather weak, I have to say. I don't understand why you're making the request now. We have had this request for the vote last time in May, if I remember quite well. We have repeatedly brought in the abolition of the earner's limit – you have always rejected it! You and your government have said: No, we don't! And now you sit here and ask for it yourself. Very strange! In fact, Mrs. Minister – as I give my colleague Andrea Kuntzl the perfect right – it is not the case with the abolition of the limit of merit. You know, we know that child care money has failed in its essential objectives. They have not reached that more fathers go in Karenz. You have not achieved that poverty... [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Wrong!]] Mrs. Minister – or Mrs. Deputies, now, please count the farmers, the study fathers, the freelances away, then you have a Mickymaus climb. If this continues in speed, we are in 600 years so far that women and men go to the same level in Karenz. And that can't be your political credo, I suppose, not even yours! That is to say, it is about how one can convert the care allowance that child care money, so that real goals are achieved like more fathers in Karenz, a real financial security for families and, of course, the goal of women getting back to work earlier and more. This requires a completely different model. You won't be able to get on with the lifting of the limit! For this to happen, we need a model as we have worked out, namely the model of the greens, which offers an income-dependent care allowance, which also means that men go more strongly into karenz, which offers extreme incentives for men to perceive this possibility, and which will in fact result in families being financially well-secured at that time and the parents – also important – can go in part-time care and thus can divide their father and mother's leave. We will submit this model as an application. I'm already excited if you will agree to this variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17036	The next item is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17058	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner, the abolition of the limit of trust is a long-standing demand of the real FPÖ. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] And I would remind you and your colleagues from the BZÖ that a certain Mr. Peter Westenthaler, who is now unfortunately leaving the hall, was negotiating with the coalition partner ÖVP, that there has at all been a commitment limit here. But it is very gratifying that now – after six years – you are coming up, Mr Bestenthaler, nice for you that you too have come on it and make a request today. Mrs Mandak, I would like to address your comments very briefly. I do not think you fully understand that the abolition of the limit of merit naturally leads to the fact that freedom of choice is really – and finally – given here. The, uh... What you criticize would resolve immediately, because a reason why very few men go in Karenz is that they usually earn more and therefore the families cannot afford it. This problem would be solved by the abandonment of the limit of trust. Madam Minister, one thing you have to allow me to say: I think it can only be a first step, because in the future you must also work on the fact that legal bases are finally created, that there is an automatic indexing of the child's money. You yourself said that the introduction was 2002 – you haven't increased the child's allowance so far. That is, there is an effective loss for the families here, as you have neglected so much with your Husch-Fuch-Law, especially in the family area, even if you are boasting now. There has been no increase in family aid under your government. There has been a minimal valorization of the care allowance. They refused to introduce an independent mother's board. This is a list that could be continued for a very long time. In total, I would say, you have made an ice box policy together with your coalition partner. Play Please do not become a Social Party at the end of your period of government, at the end of your term of office! Go inside! Of course, it is right to abolish this limit of merit, but now we are producing ourselves here and saying that family policy was great, which, I think, is a presumption that will not be fair to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17112	Mrs Colleague, one second, stay there for a moment. Demand: Did you say W estenthaler or B estenthaler? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Westenthaler!]] - Westenthaler. It's normal. Thank you very much. [[Calls.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17156	Madam President. - No one on the government bank! – Whether real or false, that’s pretty irrelevant, I would believe. We have a law with quite many gaps that is far from the objectives of this childcare allowance. It is true that none of the five targets originally set could be achieved. Mrs Haubner, you must admit that. My colleague Kuntzl suggested: It has not really taken the freedom of choice of women as given; It has become for women either or decisions. No question. There has also been no positive impulses for working life. There are very many unemployed women who want to get back into work but cannot. There's a blatant increase in the number. Fatherhood is such a thin thing that we should not talk about it at all, but I come to a point that has made me very concerned, precisely because of your decision, Mrs Haubner, which is about the contribution to poverty prevention. The goals are that the child care allowance will support the livelihood of students and housewives with non-Austrian citizenship. Why Make So you're gonna make a decree like yesterday? Can you please explain to me what poverty should be avoided here if you withdraw the economic basis of living from these families by not paying the childcare allowance by not paying out the family allowance and in cases of hardship even social security is not guaranteed? This is a bureaucratic shock! Not only am I saying this, Mrs Haubner, but you may have read a package of media reports about it today: Constitutional experts, NGOs, the Catholic women's movement – all of Austria says that this decree is in reality a scandal and a shock against these families, where you had the goal of avoiding poverty from using childcare money. You're ashamed of it, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just as little as child care money offers good solutions with the credit, nor does it offer good solutions in many other areas, especially for women, but also for men; the opposite is the case: bad solutions. Therefore, I am personally looking forward to the negotiations that we are bringing in our model, the ‘child money plus’, where we are not alone with the demands for a better reconciliation of work and family, where the Industrial Union, where all the social partners have sent a letter to bowls and casters, is demanded that we finally change the childcare allowance in such a way that women and men really have the freedom to vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17207	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17228	Madam President. High house! I think that the family policy and social policy of recent years are simply tangible, otherwise the social ratio would not be 29.3 percent. You have to say that quite clearly once. I also believe that Mrs Haubner is not worthy of criticism here; she has done her job and has not done bad, but has done very well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You have to say that honestly. We can still discuss so much about child care money, it has introduced this government – that is not to be blamed at all – against the consent and will of the other parties. We did it because we were convinced that there was a need for action here and we had to do something. That's all right. The limit of trust has always been discussed. I believe that the rules we have now are necessary, but absolutely worthy of improvement. No question. If today and here is always discussed, who was the greatest benefiter, then allow me to hold one: Among the 170,000 children’s allowances, there are about 30,000 housewives or housemen who once had no service at all, there are about 2,500 students who used to have no service at all. – I say that completely value-neutral. – There are 1,200 students who previously had no access, there are 11 000 unemployed people, there are 7 000 emergency workers. Now we think that child care money is the cause because a lot of men do not accept child rearing and care work. Now there is a group in these groups, in which income certainly does not play a role, but men do not take over this task. I refer to the students and students, where a very small number of men fulfil this task. In other words, it's not the income alone, but it's perhaps others. social, social or personal circumstances. It's supposed to leave man without any further problems. It is positive that we are now making an involvement almost everyone. I am allowed to use something for my profession – because today it has been said several times that the farming group is a special beneficiary –: Of the 170 100 there are a total of 2 530 rural families, so this is not the subject. One issue we should all consider is that of the 170 000 about 166 000 from the first birth, only 2 600 from the second birth of a child, and only 65 after the third birth. That, I believe, clearly shows that there is a reorientation in relations in the families. There you will have to refer to one thing or another. The fact that the educational work of both parents is to be done is right has never been a mistake. How we might better involve the men is the question. Perhaps it is also a matter of time, a question of society, that may be the case. We're supposed to work on all this development. The limit of merit for me is like this: We currently have a tangible, very good, functional model, system, law. It can also be better. With all the changes, we should not go so far as money – well, from me – but rather look at the child much more, look at the families, look at those who get the references. These are really the recipients of our policy; we have to focus on that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I think that's a good job here for consulting. It will develop in some way. I'm convinced that a lot will be involved. Any blatant comments as they have come, please, are not suitable for this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17308	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. The remainder of your group's speaking time is only 2 minutes; You need to get a little shorter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17329	Madam President. For the Freedom Party, families are at the centre of all political responsibility. That is why we are, of course, in favour of any measure that leads to family financial discharge. And that is why the abolition of the limit of merit is absolutely to be welcomed. However, I would like to note that the term “husk-pusch-law” fits exactly what the BZÖ has supplied in recent years. I would also like to remind you that Mr Westenthaler constantly mentions the model country of Carinthia, and would also like to comment here and explain to you that it is going down and over in this model country of Carinthia. First of all, there are 10,000 female women who receive the mother’s money. Now it's only more than 2,000. No human knows why. Then it is said that one wants to create a legal basis that is still missing. Therefore, because the legal base is missing, there is no payout for these mothers until now for October, November. It is also a proof of how much the social policy element really takes place in the BZÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] It is also worth mentioning that the application for this mother money in Carinthia is already almost more than the actual support for the mothers. – So much for your social policy competence. The Freedom Party will certainly take up a slightly wider facet in this work and introduce a family tax model and pension rights to highlight the mothers who really do much to bring this country forward with their children.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17377	Mrs Schönpass has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17399	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is gratifying that the BZÖ is dealing with the childcare allowance, especially since the Institute for Family Research also concluded in the evaluation of the childcare allowance in May of this year that the current pay-out limit limits well paid women in their employment and hinders father participation. By the way: This study cost €600 000 from means of taxation. Mrs Bundesminister, how do you justify the fact that this is not accessible to the public and that Parliament has only received a summary? It's not done with the loss of the earner's limit. We've heard that before. The evaluation also states that only one bundle of measures and framework conditions makes the childcare allowance what it is supposed to be, namely an instrument that meets the needs of mothers and fathers. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If we are serious about the compatibility of work and family, then the childcare allowance must be as flexible as the mothers and fathers must be in their professional life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That means: If a parent stays shorter than the entire reference period with the child and wants or needs to return to the profession earlier, then the child money should be able to adapt to these requirements and be paid shorter but accordingly higher. For women in particular, such flexibilization would facilitate the return to work. Another very important point in this context is extra-family childcare. The childcare allowance does not provide an appropriate answer to family policy issues that we must ask ourselves. A modern, social family policy includes ensuring adequate childcare facilities. Still, thousands of childcare places are missing, many of the existing places do not satisfy the needs of families. For example, in Upper Austria 40 percent of the municipalities did not open kindergartens throughout. There are also strong shortcomings in the care of children under 3 years of age and dependent on school. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'll invite you all: Together, we finally create effective framework conditions for genuine reconciliation between work and family! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17451	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party. The rest of your group's speaking time is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17472	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I can't stand what you said, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. I take care of it. You know that every third-country national and every third-country child in Austria needs a residence permit. Regardless of family benefits, parents must also provide this residence permit for their children. This is the legal basis adopted in 2005 in the context of the Foreign Rights Package, which was also decided by your votes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not true!]] I say that this decree, which went out in August 2006, corresponds to the law and nothing else. If you want to have changes, then the Foreign Law must be amended. I would also like to say one thing: Today, my employees also have discussions with the Caritas and with various organizations that have said quite clearly: They're individual cases, they're special cases. [[Abg. Oillinger: Not at all!]] And the number of 9 000 has never come from them. I can only say what was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17520	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I grant the request 33/A to the Family Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:35:16]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-11-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00004_d7e17554	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 36/A to 61/A. Question No 102/J to 123/J has also been received. Request according to § 99 para. 2 GOG President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: I also announce that, in connection with the Self-employed Application 36/A, the Court of Auditors' special file on the conduct of a special audit by the Court of Auditors concerning the financial performance of the ASFINAG, which is 100 percent state-owned, and its subsidiaries, taking into account the ownership function of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, as of 2000, a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened for today at 7.35 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
