ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2726	The 153. The meeting of the National Council is open. Deputies are reported as prevented by Felzmann, Glaser, Bayer, Schieder, Mag. Worm, Dr. Bleckmann and Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2754	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs Dr. Hans Winkler. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2787	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3, 4 to 12, 14 to 17, 19 to 28, and 31 and 32 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2811	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Freeman – BZÖ 96 minutes as well as Green 104 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously the case and accepted. [[13:40:25]] 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1324, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Copyright Act (Copyright Law Novelle 2006 – UrhG-Nov 2006) (1508 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the collecting company law 2006 (1509, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 812/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the digital rights of consumers (1510 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2878	We therefore come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2905	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Copyright Act – this novel, which is available in the form of the amendment proposal. I am expressing my compliment to the staff of the Ministry of Justice who have tried to depress the original draft. This draft provides for the obligation to provide information if, for example, persons have taken advantage of law-abiding services or have provided services used for infringements of law. It's about the so-called provider problem. As a Socialist Group, we have also expressed our opinion in the Committee on Justice that such information can only be provided after the intervention of an independent judge who examines the relevant conditions. That is not the case, therefore, as a Socialist Group, we do not agree with this proposal either. But there is, Mr President, a fundamental debate: The issue of intellectual property rights is: What does it look like in the digital world and what does it look like in the real world? – It is a legal debate that we have to debate. It is about copyright in the digital field. There are trends – and I would like to stress this specifically – in the direction of restriction of use, for example, when attempts are made to restrict individual uses by persons who have a legal title. I very much distinguish this from questions of classical piracy, of brand rights – we need action here, as the enforcement directive of the European Union needs to be implemented. Digital product piracy – and I say it – has a different dimension on the right. This House should also be more focused on this! When it comes to digital matters, it is very central questions: It is about digital rights management systems, it is about the issues of technology neutrality, because one thing is incomprehensible: If someone buys a CD, comes home and cannot play the CD on certain devices! It is also about the legal treatment of exchange exchange users. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, I warn against criminalization! I warn you a criminalisation of the schools, because young people are primarily affected! In Germany, there are thousands of ads against young customers who are supposed to infringe intellectual property rights. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The European consumer organisations at BEUC have clearly expressed their support for the right to private copy and for music downloads via exchange exchanges as long as this does not happen in commercial terms. Copies made for private use must remain free of penalties, including in the future. In the national copyright laws, the right to digital copies is therefore to be embedded by law in such a way that it cannot be prevented without any further restriction by means of copy protection measures – but that is the case in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The BEUC calls on consumers to recognise and secure the six key digital rights of consumers at European level. You did not agree to our request, which reflects the demands of European consumer organisations! . You do not agree with our request, we do not agree with your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2969	Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e2991	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What's this about? – It is a question of enabling us to ensure that rights that we have as authors can really be enforced. The abuse of such rights otherwise means that no one can live by copyright: An artist who brings a song to the market is dependent on the fact that this music is bought by someone else, otherwise he just lives by something else – and we all know that no artist wants it. Mr Maier, if you are talking about the need to be careful of the students above all, then I think it is right that in the past, when there were not so many professional download boxes, such as iTunes, there has been a lot of illegal music downloads. But if a student stole a single CD – even for his own use – as a shoplifter, we always agreed that it was criminal that this is not legal – and it is the same with illegal downloads! It is all the more important that there are single songs for download – around 99 cents, 89 cents, 79 cents per song. This also opens up new and great opportunities for the artists. But we already have to stick to what is right and make the children aware of it. Of course, this is not about criminalising such individual cases at all, but it is about not being illegally downloaded and illegally duplicated – precisely what we made quite clear in this law. It is also important to know who actually violated his rights. In Austria, it is quite natural for anyone to complain whatever he wants. He doesn't have to go to a judge before that and ask: Can I complain to him? – To do this, he only needs to look in the phone book. If his claim is rejected, he can do so. If someone violates a right, you have to be able to learn: Who was that? I also consider it very important that the costs of this information be borne by Internet service providers by those who feel hurt in their rights. The importance of these basic things may also make clear a statement by the Austrian Music Association: At least 65 000 members – musicians, singers, orchestras, ensembles, composers, authors – and 2,000 publishers are united there. It takes a very clear view of the Greens' requests and of the SPÖ's requests. I quote: “It is unfortunate, however, that the SPÖ does not appear against the creative industries for the first time, and with a consumer protection that is not understood in our view, wants to be politically pointless on the back of the creative.” And to the Greens: "Paradoxically, the Greens want to misuse the implementation of the EU Enforcement Directive – at the expense of artists and creative industries – for a reduction in copyright protection and thus reverse the objectives of the Directive? !” I assume that in the end, the vote, the change of opinion of the Greens in the Committee, was ultimately achieved. Perhaps the SPÖ also comes up with a rethinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3052	I call Mr Puswald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3073	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank If Mrs Hakl says, in connection with copyright, that you also have to inform the children, I mean: I do not want to go that far, but I would like to inform Mrs Hakl that according to Article 6 para. 4 of the relevant Directive requires all Member States to take appropriate measures to enable the beneficiary consumers to exercise their own rights of use or of schools, libraries and the like if voluntary action is not taken by the person, Mrs Colleague, who is the owner of rights. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But first I have to buy them!]] – This is once the directive. You also need to know – I hope you do – that this directive was basically implemented in accordance with Austrian law. What you are doing here together with your orange counterparts is so typical of your policy: In doubt for industry, in doubt against consumers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – Oh, that’s right, Mr Murauer, I think you haven’t understood this in all these years! They have apparently slept six years of black-orange government policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Otherwise, you would see that Mrs. Hakl does not realize that it is not a question of anyone who wants to sue someone who wants to complain, whether he is allowed to complain, but rather of a fundamental question, whether someone may take interim measures that are far-reaching in privacy, without judicial order, without judicial review, or whether a judge must be involved. And we don't understand with you in any way. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] You want a state that meets your own power-use, partly power-abuse claims, with the best possible elimination of the courts, so that you can argue: We want to relieve the dishes. Let's get the judges in individual areas straight away. - We don't want to. We want to be there, where there is a private equal standing against each other, that these conflicts can be carried out before civil courts. Where, however, third-party rights – and this will be the case here – a judge must be involved. That is the minimum requirement to comply with a democratic rule of law. [[Abg. Wheeler: BAWAG!]] See, Mr. colleague, I knew that your simple structured mind just knows BAWAG, BAWAG, BAWAG. I also tell you one thing, even there are courts in place, and good is it, because if only the pappers like you were at work, the truth would never come to light. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your information, so that you can get a bit more far-sighted. It's hard back there, I admit. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Christian, that was the right answer!]] – I think it is necessary for colleagues in the back ranks of the ÖVP – it is going to penetrate into the back ranks what a rule of law can do – once known, Mr. Colleague, that what you want from the ÖVP leads – and that is what I am telling you – as a lawyer who is not an enemy of your own money – that, as has already happened in many other areas, our own “industries” – under quotation marks – are developing, which are simply specialized in it, with claims that have been withdrawn from judicial review, where no judge is intervening from the outset, to claim with expensive warning claims, of which one does not know whether they exist at all, and thus exert a pressure from which the German newspaper “Die Zeit” even says: In doubt for industry. – And we are in doubt for the people. That's different from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: The industry is not people?]] On one point I would like to say to you, Mr Amon, also to you: The Austrian People's Party and the Liberals have acquired copyrights over the last six years that would be there: copyright to keep public debt at the level of 1999, although they have now largely squandered state assets. They have the authorship for announcement and soap bubble policy. You have the authorship for post chess. They have the authorship for abuse of power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] You have the authorship, Mr Donabauer, for the erodement of the rule of law. And with this authorship, the voters will no longer give you a license at the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3202	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3224	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I do not want to deal with the election speech, nor with a bad one, from Mr Puswald, nor with a very small publicity effect, because television has already been switched off. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ]] I wonder, Mr Puswald, why you hacked in there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] For nothing! You could have told us all this quietly, without threats and without accusations. Regarding Mr Maier's speech: I don’t think your policy “Aug um Aug, Zahn um Zahn” is very well done either. Mr Maier – I think he is not here right now – you know very well that we have to implement an EU directive first and that we have made it very economical anyway, and secondly: [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: What are you talking about?]] You really must also want to protect the author, just as we want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter! I do not think you understand anything about the problem at all, because you were not in the judicial committee. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] You obviously didn't deal with matter either, because otherwise you wouldn't make such calls. So far, the authors have no chance to intervene if the work of the author is used illegally. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Is that at all? Your place? You're not supposed to make a strange place out of intermediate calls. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: I'm in my place!]] - Good. It's okay. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this novelle, the author is also given the opportunity to help his right to break through. Mr Puswald! I am not one of the orange Members, as you have named the colleagues of the political groups, but You must not forget that this path we have chosen here leads to the fact that the provider is actually relieved. For if we were to make it difficult for the injured to be informed, the injured would go to court immediately and file an injunction. There is this possibility. In other words, this right of information is the least burden on the provider. This also has nothing to do with helping the industry or that you want to perform any other ideological images that you want to carry out “hineing secrets”, but we wanted a practical solution. And we have it now. The person who is injured in his right is addressed to the provider, quite informally, and he answers or does not answer. If he does not answer, the injured person may file an injunction. So I don't know why you don't want to accept this and why you say that only because you don't turn on a judge before, don't go with me. I don't understand. I do not understand, Mr Maier, why you regard the author as so low. We cannot accept that his work is illegally deposed, that he has created this work, but is excluded from the benefit to the whole or part of it. In order to stop this piracy, we have implemented this EU directive in this way. Mr Maier, on the question of the principle, which you have also addressed: Should the product piracy in the digital field have a different priority than the product piracy elsewhere where? We have been discussing in the Justice Committee, in the Ministry for a long time. I think the author belongs exactly as protected as any other manufacturer of a product. If you always mention the example of the student who wants to make one or more copies of his own use, I would just like to say to you: For example, if you want to stay with young people, the band “Tokio Hotel” not only once, but twice, you have to get a ticket each time. And no one will come to the idea that there are already several events associated with the purchase of a ticket. Everyone knows he needs to keep saving so that he can solve another ticket. So it is with all things in life. Unfortunately, you have to pay God for everything. I do not see why, especially when it comes to copyrighted works, other standards should apply. You know exactly – even better than I likely – that the industry is already working on the fact that two or three copies of a work are possible without there being a barrier, for example, to use a CD on several devices. So the excitement is completely in vain, and I believe that there is really good reason for you to carry out this implementation of the EU directive with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3326	Mrs Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3348	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of copyright, we have to deal with an increasingly difficult matter. This is his reason for the fact that the new technologies are always making it easier to get out of the existing laws, to lead ad absurdum, to let it look old with a word. In fact, copyright itself is a matter that divides our own considerations into law. There are actually two rights to be protected at the same time. On the one hand, we want to support and protect the intellectual property, the intellectual performance – of course we want to support and protect it. We want all those who provide intellectual property to provide intellectual services to benefit financially. On the other hand, we must already consider the fact that, with an ever-increasing increase in copyright law, such things as degrees of freedom are also being lost. [[Call the ÖVP: The AKM!]] In fact, this, of course, also restricts the freedom of the authors, the creative constantly. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Why?]] You'll get this problem on the table, whether you want it or not. It is a gradually growing problem. If you go to a graphic office today, the creatives will tell you that if they draw a flower completely innocently, they run the risk that this flower is already protected by copyright somewhere and that they may be asked to cash out under circumstances without knowing it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But now you don't believe what you're saying!]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: You have no idea!]] You don't have to say no now! This is a problem that is going through all the creative industries, and that is why we sometimes have concerns when it is time and again to strengthen copyright for its own sake. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now there is again a federal law, a novel that wants to do exactly that. Now the intermediaries are to be obliged to provide information. Even if they were not even involved in the copyright infringement, if they did not even take note of it, if they did not know anything about it, they should use names, addresses and data. At first, there would be no objection at all. The problem that arises from it is as with a construction site that is closed. Often another construction site is opened. The problem in this case is that the providers, the intermediaries, are getting into an unpleasant situation, namely, the situation that they may infringe data protection law, if there is no copyright infringement at all. If there is a copyright infringement, then it is clear, then they can also extract the data, but if none exists, then they should also extract the data, but then they violate the data protection law. They actually come into a twinkling mill, they stand more or less with a foot in the crime. [[Abg. May. Hakl: When it's complained, it's no different! It can go out like that!]] - You're right! – You have to start researching. You also need legal aid. And from this the problem arises: Who pays that? They did no wrong. They're coming to the handcushion now, they have to finance something they haven't even caused. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's why we changed that too!]] That's why we said: We have to think about that again. We have notified this to the Committee and have also submitted our own request for it. We would have liked to have a law which, first of all, was more closely oriented towards the EU directives that enabled a civil judge to decide whether a copyright infringement had taken place, and then the data could be extracted or not. That would have been the right way in the sense of legal certainty. As is the case in democracy, we have finally agreed on something in the Committee, and we are very satisfied with it, and the providers too are satisfied with it. It now looks like this obligation to provide material information, i.e. if sufficient evidence of the infringement is available and the costs are also borne by the applicants. That is, those who claim the right must bear the costs and provide the evidence. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive climate, including the Minister, who, at the end of the day, provided for this climate. I would like to see such a constructive climate in some other committees, especially in the committees in which I am regular, as in the Scientific Committee and in the Cultural Committee. Minister Gehrer does not even address concerns that we sometimes and rightly represent there. – I thank you again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3454	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3475	Mr. President! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Copyright has long been a legal matter of the specialists. The average citizen was hardly in danger of conflict with copyright. The possibilities of modern communications technology, the digital copy and the worldwide distribution over the Internet have fundamentally changed the situation. Today, at least in every second household, there is a device that enables digital copies, and far more than the Half of the people use the World Wide Web. The many operators of websites are particularly affected by this matter. Even a private homepage offers a lot of conflict material, it is enough to have a scanned passport image. Especially on the Internet, copyright has become one of the most important norms and at the same time become one of the most frequently broken. The Enforcement Directive on enforcement and protection of intellectual property has already been discussed. I would also like to mention that the association of the Austrian music industry, which represents around 65 000 musicians, singers, orchestras, composers, composers and authors, as well as 2,000 publishers, major and independent labels and music video producers, has clearly expressed their support for the adoption of this government proposal. The music industry has changed strongly in recent years. With new online shops and streaming platforms, more than 4 million songs were purchased online in Austria in 2005, according to the association's information. It grows the market, which also makes excuses that there would be no alternative to illegal download platforms, no longer correspond to the truth, and it also increases the webshops that make the offers legally accessible to consumers. However, it is unfortunate that the SPÖ does not take place against these creative industries for the first time and wants to make political points with a consumer protection that we understand to be falsely understood on the back of the creative. Mr Maier! The with the private copy – as a simple copy I can also copy a copy protected CD. It is prevented from copying CDs at multiple speeds, at eight or twelve times the speed and then sold them by commercial means. Paradoxically, the Greens also want to misuse the implementation of this EU Enforcement Directive at the expense of artists and creative sectors to reduce copyright protection, thereby compromising the objectives of the Directive. Mr Puswald, you said it was against the consumers. – On the other hand, I think it is a good arrangement, and I thank the Federal Minister and her team for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3517	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has spoken from the government bank. Gastinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased that the Copyright Novel 2006 will obviously find the approval of the majority of the members of the House. At this point I would like to expressly stress that this copyright law novel really preceded long and very tough negotiations. We have also taken this from the Committee on Justice's agenda in order to continue negotiations on an amendment request from the Greens. I must say, however, that this result, as it is now, is also a good solution in the interests of all, I believe, with the obligation to provide information. It is a pragmatic, reasonable way that does not cause too much stress for anyone, but very probably keeps in mind the protection of the authors. I think that's a reasonable solution. Of course, I'm sorry that the SPÖ can't go here. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Will!]] I am pleased, however, to hear how much the trust of the House in justice and the courts is, so that the call for a judicial decision is always heard. This is something I like to hear with the other part of my heart. Nevertheless, I think that, as we have now regulated the obligation to provide information in copyright, it is really a pragmatic solution, which, even if it should not work, makes it possible to go to court. That's what we've planned. I also think that this path is the reasonable and the right one. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3575	I call Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3597	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Digital copies and the digital world are a world of change. This is very often done at a speed, in view of which the legislator can very often only re-adjust. With the introduction of the CD as a record medium for audio material, it was first of all necessary to stop normal copying, as you used to know, from a record to a music cassette. When the CD burners were introduced, the prices for blanks – at that time still around 170 Schilling – were actually very unattractive. With the rising price drop in the price of the raw materials, the prices of which are now moving in the centenary, however, there has also been more and more duplication, which went far beyond the normal level of a permitted private copy. It wasn't just that you just made a private copy for yourself, but it was also made for a circle of friends, and that was more and more and more. For this reason, the music industry was then forced to take action against taking measures in the form of copy-blocks, but with which one has also entered a kind of race, arms race. Each copy protection was erased by a special copy software. The current status quo is that with programs like “Alcohol 120%” or “Clone CD” any copy protected CD can still be copied. So the problem remains the same. Copyright is to be protected because it is the intellectual property of the artist. It should not be seen that this intellectual property is not accepted in any way. The further developing exchange exchanges have opened up another aspect in this causa, namely the aspect that one did not even have to own a copyrighted CD. One has logged into Peer to Peer networks and has been able to easily download the music pieces in the community. Thus there were ratios of 1 : 100 or 1: 500 between sold CDs and distributed songs. The music industry then responded with the possibility of using exchange exchanges in a legal way. Mr Hakl has already done this. So today, for a very small fee, it is also possible for every student to buy music and then, as young people do, to play and consume on the iPod. So I think that this grey area and this approach to the criminalisation of young people, which Mr Maier has put into space, We are simply not given, and for this reason, of course, we are fully in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3642	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3663	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I just want to say that simple private copying is possible at any time. This is particularly said in the direction of Mr Maier, the self-appointed consumer speaker. The new regulation prohibits only commercial and abusive copying. This is important because for us the protection of the authors is important and crucial. In this context, I would like to invite you to a similar protection initiative. In the context of artistic-scientific works and scientific works, more and more are copied, plaged, and texted products, scientific and artistic productions are taken over. The universities have turned to me seeking help, I suspect, also to you, esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the other parties, to prevent the copying, the illicit use of spiritual-artistic products in diplomas and dissertations, not only through copyright, but also through university law or university laws. The universities, including the artistic, are now trying to arrange in their statutes that, as far as possible, diplomas can only be carried out more electronically in order to find out such ones through certain screenings, i.e. robbed, plagiarized places. This makes scientific work more difficult, which actually discriminates against all students, including those who are good will, who work seriously, who want to work reliably. According to expert estimates, this already accounts for 15 to 30 percent of scientific work. I'm protecting myself from the honest students. I am protecting myself from the honest scientific workers, university teachers, who see an important task in their educational and scientific support. I invite all Members of the other political groups to work on a solution, even if this will not lead to a final outcome in the next few weeks. Please also fight against unfair work here, unfair scientific and artistic competition and we protect the authors, the spiritual, the artistic and all the others, and we do not support abuse! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3697	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately from each committee report. First we reach the vote on the draft copyright law 2006 together with the title and receipt in 1508 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the collecting company law in 2006, together with the title and receipt in 1509 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall come to the third reading. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] - Come on, that's so tiresome! – This is adopted by a majority. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1510 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[14:17:36]] 4. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1420, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the law on property law in general civil law and the marriage law, the Extraordinary Law, the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on Laws of Associations and Patients, the Notarial Code, the Law on Jurisdiction and the Professional Law amending the Law of 2006 (Sachwalterrechts-Amending Act 2006 – SWÄG 2006) (1511 d.B.) 5. Point Report and request of the Committee on Justice on the draft federal law amending the Rules of Procedure (1513, e.g.) 6. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Home Residence Act (1512, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on the extension of the burden of proof in case of warranty claims (1514, e.g.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 510/A by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues in a federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act (1515 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 497/A by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues in a federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act (1516, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 353/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues in the E-Commerce Act (ECG) and online shopping: Unauthorised company homepages – ECG execution (1517 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 56/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues on “Unification of withdrawal periods for consumers in consumer business” (1518 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 36/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the re-codification of consumer civil rights – ‘KSCHG-NEW’ (1519 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3883	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. Mrs Stadlbauer has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e3907	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The changes in property law are basically good. The conditions for the affected people are becoming clearer. Self-determination is highlighted. The family is strengthened by the precautionary authority and the authorities are limited. The cooperation of the various political groups in the judicial committee was exemplary. Some amendments have still been accepted and made with four-party applications, for example in criminal law. In the original version, Sachwalter, who is not a family member, should have declared against her clients in criminal proceedings. This would have been a clear deterioration for those concerned because that was not the case until now, and this passus has been removed from the law on our business, on the operation of the SPÖ fraction, and that is good. In my opinion, one point that is not yet fully debated is the following: § 283 ABGB is intended to re-establish treatment consent arrangements. The Court should now take direct action on the persons concerned in cases where the controller does not agree to certain medical treatment. There is a fear in the room that a prompt shortening of the procedure – i.e. replacing the court’s consent – will prevent a search for alternatives in the treatment method. I understand the argument why this passus was inserted. I can well imagine that it can be very laborious if, in the event of difficult decisions, the secretary does not give his assent for safety reasons. It may be very laborious for doctors to convince, especially if it does not allow their time. So here you wanted to find another way to get an approval. That's the one side. On the other hand, however, there is massive concern that this very provision can also be misused. For example – and this happens time and again –: An elderly man should be used a probe. The secretary did not agree because there were also alternatives. Logically, in this case, the doctor will discuss with the patient and the nurse what is the best method for the patient. This can also be laborious, and it is quite clear that overburdened and revised doctors want to have a quick decision, then find an overburdened and revised judge who wants to have the pre-meditated medical case quickly off the table with a quick decision. Of course I don't think so, but it seems that it could happen and we could counter this. In the interests of those concerned, it would be better not to leave this pass in the law. In the best case, it should remain with the consent of the guard. If the doctor deals reasonably with the patient and the nurse, there will also be a reasonable solution. However, I also understand the above-mentioned argument and therefore propose as a compromise that the case-law officer has at least a right of hearing with the judge. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm making another request because it's right now: Resolution Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Mag. Christine Lapp, colleagues on a ‘easy to read’ version of the SWREAG The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Justice is asked to have an easy-to-read (easy to read) information provided to the general public and, in particular, to the parties concerned, by means of the 2006 Act amending the law on property law. On the first request, on the amendment: The Committee has repeatedly argued that this would be the case and would mean that the judge will speak to the guard again. But it was also argued that we must train the judges to do so. Now I'm wondering, If it is natural anyway, why can we not clearly and, of course, write it into this law? That is why it would be important for us to deal with this proposal. In conclusion: In the Committee, Minister Gastinger did not want to share the budget concerns of the associations. She said that the funding of the clubs was secure. Mrs Minister, that's not true! For example, the Association for Sachwalterschaft is very worried about the budget and is hoping for the next budget. Please ensure that sufficient budget is available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4020	The amendment tabled by Mr Stadlbauer, Dr Jarolim, colleagues is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4081	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Jarolim, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits, Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4135	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4157	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a committee some laws are particularly close to one's heart, some less, some are very dry matter, and some can imagine that it meets one's own. This law of law is such a law, which is particularly at my heart on the one hand and of which I can imagine, on the other hand, that it could probably affect me or close relatives or friends at some point in time. This novelle has been prepared with experts for a long time, and this novelle also carries a new philosophy. In this case law, we have wanted to keep as little as possible the intervention into the autonomy of the persons concerned in their decision-making, and therefore also sought solutions that could not already be regulated by law before, without the need to order a court order of law – for example, through a legal power of representation of close relatives on the matters of daily life, for example by means of the precautionary authority, with which you can make sure that you yourself through a document, who should once be a guardian, you should need one. In this law, we have also given particular importance to the fact that the legal representation is not merely a task of legal representation, but a social obligation that the effective exercise of this social obligation must be ensured, for example by the fact that personal contact has to take place at least once a month. I believe that this is still too little and that the practice should bring together the controller and the person in charge more often. We have also ensured that not hundreds of bodies are perceived by a person, but are limited to 25. Then we have determined that the court of its own motion should check, every five years, whether the board of directors is still necessary. It is true that a number of questions will be crystallized by this new law, and that is why we in Parliament want to have a report that the Minister of Justice should give us. The Act on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union introduces substantial changes to the system of the case-law. This relates in particular to the precautionary power, the possibility of representation of the next member, but also to the number of restrictions on the management of property. This measure, of course, also has a financial impact, for which the Federal Minister for Justice has provided it accordingly. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's a four-party request. I hope that social democracy knows that the financial needs of the board of directors are also at our heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4223	Mr Fekter, Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mr Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4274	Mrs Mag. Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4296	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, as can be concluded from the previous opinions, the law on property law amendment will be adopted jointly by all parties. I think this is the consequence of an exemplary process of creating a law novel. I would like to thank Mrs Minister, but especially those who have been involved, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice, very much. I have therefore said this because, as part of my next speech, I will say at the next point, how a law should not come into existence. In the case of the law on the law on property law, it was so that one first composed with those who understood something of the matter; in this case with those institutions that have bodies at the level of the association and whose profession it is. This law is primarily based on two intentions. First: Restriction of the State of the State on cases where there is no other alternative. In recent years, the number of trade unions has increased enormously. The new legal conditions that we are now creating will make some clarifications and clarifications in this area – always in the thought that the protection function of the board is the priority. The second aspect of this law – that aspect is not now referred to as the second, because it is less important, but is actually the bearing element – is the strengthening of self-determination of mentally ill and mentally disabled people, for that is the group affected by the authorities. That is why what Mr Fekter and Mr Stadlbauer mentioned earlier, namely, the power to take precautions, the management of the case-law, the question of the powers of representation of the next member and the protection against abuse, is so essential. Let me briefly say: It is a good law – that says the opposition in the National Council not often about a law – but it is not a perfect law. It is not perfect, therefore, because those objections that were still raised after the review process and after the integration into the government template – partly from the opposition, i.e. from me, but also from the SPÖ, partly from the outside – were largely taken into account, but not entirely. That is why, despite the good law, which, as I have said, is not perfect, I tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Stadlbauer has already spoken about the background to the first part of the amendment. I didn't know that the SPÖ would also bring in an amendment, I only now learned that otherwise we could have worked together and formulated our amendment in such a way that we would have saved ourselves one. But there is no obligation to cooperate with the opposition – in contrast to cooperation within the government, because it is sitting in a boat, we are sitting in separate boats, where we do not have to row together, but row in a direction. [[Abg. Großruck: In the underwater boat you are!]] That's the difference. I have thus explained to you the amendments and come to the point that, if one wants to do so, at the last minute, there was still a consensual attempt at the clarification of which I do not know, Madam Minister, how he will affect, I come to the financial extra burden of the associations of directors by extending the scope of activity now, with respect to a new field of activity. The representatives I spoke to have serious doubts about the fact that the budget and the planning are actually going to take place. However, since we cannot yet know this, because the law will be in full bloom only in three years, from now on, and will bring about the full impact until all the mass administrations are gone, it is a matter of concern to us – as we have said in the Community resolution – to point out today that these budgetary plans and precautions may be well meant, but nevertheless insufficient. This is the will of the legislator expressed in the motion for a resolution. Thank you again to all those who have worked together, especially Mr. Dr. Hopf and, above all, Dr. Barth, who has been responsible for this. I am also grateful now for all the people who have assisted a guard – yet we do not know what these people are called; they do not have to be disabled, but above all they are not “advertised”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4360	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4450	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4471	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I usually do not praise the officials in plenary, because I think it is the duty of officials, just as it is our duty to do decent work. In this case, however, I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Justice because they have really leaped over their shadows. I would particularly like to thank Mr Hopf, who was the starting point for the concentrated interventions that were made in connection with this legislative act. I am really grateful to everyone in this department for having shown so much understanding of our concerns and for having contributed to the fact that it has become the way it is now. Ladies and gentlemen! We are entering the new country with this law in many areas. We are creating provisions that have not yet been established. We are pioneers in Europe in some areas to which I am going to speak. I am also pleased that this matter will be carried by all parties. The usual conflicts, the disputes, have been completely lacking in this law. The basis of each debate was: How can we improve the situation of those affected? How can we strengthen their rights? And how can we put the system of administration on a better basis? – It was really a very, very pleasant collaboration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are many maladministrations in the field of law enforcement. The interest in this matter is also not very great here in this house. Only when people are affected that they have to be monitored will they be interested. But before that, you think: Well, that's none of my business anyway! In any case, the authorities are far too widely awarded. If an application for care allowance is made, an agent must be ordered. Comes to a nursing home: Executive order. If someone at the Social Office wants a permanent service, a guard must be ordered. If a PEG probe is prescribed by the doctor, a guard is ordered – because it is very easy to talk to a guard than, for example, an old person with whom a more difficult basis of conversation arises. All those who need the signature, or the head of the home are of course happy if they have a treasurer as a visa and, of course, operate the boards. In addition to the legal changes that we are making, my appeal to the authorities, to the nursing homes, is not so overwhelming to make use of the authorities, but to deal with the people concerned themselves. For example, the setting of a PEG probe is not, in my opinion, the case of the court or the case of the controller, but it must be decided by a doctor and he must bear the responsibility for it because he knows about the medical and also about the other effects. There, I think, the guard could be missing at all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, over the years, the authorities have been greatly expanded, because another form of life has also developed: There are a lot more people being cared for at home and need a guard than a few years ago. That is why, and through the practice of the authorities I have already mentioned, there are now much more authorities. We need to make it clear that it is much more about supporting someone than about detonating someone. I would like to make a few brief points. Some lawyers and notaries currently have up to 800 officers. You can imagine that the care was not good and could not be good. We have decimated: He may have a maximum of 25 in the future. This will also be done by other professional representatives. The Minister of Justice has already committed herself and will have €5 million more available. We have also introduced that at least once a month each expert must have personal contact with the administrator and report to the court. Completely new and also thanks to the understanding of the head of the section Dr. Hopf we introduce the continuation of the legal representation. For example, if someone who is disabled from birth becomes 18 years old, he must now get a guard. We are now introducing that legal representatives – mostly mother, father – may continue to exercise legal representation. This means that care in the family sector is greatly strengthened. This representative was rejected in the Federal Republic of Germany. We are very happy that they are available in Austria. A few more words on Mrs Stadlbauer's request: I am in favour of this request, but I just had to say that in the Extraordinary Act there is already this provision that the guard must be heard, and also: What if the guard's on vacation? – I do not let this argument apply, because then you have to attract a representative. Because if the guard is on vacation, he must also see that someone cares for the guard. But in principle – this is still being negotiated here – I believe that this request is good, and I would support it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course we all know that this law is not a guarantee that the guardians will be better cared for. But at least we have created the legal conditions for a better way than before.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4550	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has spoken from the government bank. Gastinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At this point I would like to begin by thanking myself quite cordially for the broad approval and consensus that this legal matter finds here in the House. At this point, however, I would like to thank my colleagues, first and foremost Mr. Dr. Hopf and Dr. Barth, who have done excellent work here. I want to come to the law myself now. It has already been mentioned a lot of positive things. Something that has not yet been addressed, but which is also provided for in the law and is new to Austria, but which we expect to be very much, is the establishment of a clearing site. You have to imagine this in such a way that, in the future, before it comes to the appointment of a guard, the Association for the Sachwalterschaft acts as a clearing place and that, above all, when someone says for example, my father, my mother, my uncle or my aunt needs a treasurer, first to turn to this clearing site to decide whether a guard is necessary or whether you can find out with other appropriate measures. We expect a lot of that. And I think that this will, in future, make a big contribution to cost savings. I would now like to take a closer look at the request made by Mrs Stadlbauer. It is a question of whether or not treatment should be carried out in the event of illness, if the agent does not agree. It is usually the case that, when the Court of First Instance is brought into action, the extrajudicial proceedings apply here. And in the extrajudicial proceedings, the principle of procedure applies that the controller is to be heard. This is already a principle of procedure, and any court that determines it properly will comply with it. You have now proposed that we include in the ABGB a procedural provision – the consultation of the controller is a procedural provision. This is a bit system-absorbed, because procedural provisions are in the Extraordinary Law. Above all, I also fear that, if we take this up here now, this is as good as the request; in terms of content I can support what you want, because I also think that is reasonable, I would like to predict that I have not said so far – it would mean that at the other side in all the other cases – argumentum e contrario – is said not to hear the guard. And that's a development I don't want. That would have to be considered in a balanced way. In this particular case – you are right – I also believe that if the court has a decision to make here, the guard is to be heard. I do not think so, I have already expressed this in the Committee on Justice, that we will then appoint a new expert. That doesn't mean anything, because he doesn't know the guard at all, and that can only lead to delays. So you have to see if that makes sense. In principle, I welcome the fact that the officers are to be heard, but I give this to bear in mind. You also argued that you want to have an easy-to-read version for the practice. I can also support this and would like to inform the High National Council that we will carry out information campaigns from the Ministry of Justice as soon as this law is published in the federal law paper – the preliminary work is already under way – similar to what we have done in the home and home contract law, so that the necessary information will also be prepared in written and easy-to-read form. Above all, we will contact the decision-makers and also offer training to implement this law as well as possible in practice. This is also the reason why we have a relatively long legisvakance, a relatively long time until the law enters into force because, before this law enters into force, we really want to create the best possible preparation. The budgetary situation has been addressed several times by my previous speakers. I am pleased that the High National Council has recognised this problem, I must say quite honestly, because this is, of course, a point with which the best possible care of those people or people who have a guard stands and falls. We have also planned – and this is also reflected in the explanations attached to the law; this has already been agreed with the Minister of Finance – that over the next four years, we will receive up to €8 million annually for this area from the budget. I hope that will help us find the way out. For this year I intend to apply for a budget overrun, i.e. to negotiate with the Minister for Finance. We are already seeing that the money is very scarce, and I hope that we will find the necessary hearing on this issue with the Minister for Finance. In this sense, I also welcome the fact that we have planned the evaluation because I hope that the budgetary negotiations for this sensitive area will be substantially facilitated in the future, because we will then have quite specific figures at our disposal. I am pleased that this bill has such broad support, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4636	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4657	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you said that you usually don't thank yourself and don't like to praise it. [[Abg. Großruck: She didn't say that!]] I think you shouldn't be too economical with praise if there's a reason for that. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you need to teach me?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to take advantage of the occasion today and thank my colleague Johann Maier, who has prepared numerous consumer protection applications – with the usual expertise and precision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria had a pioneering role in the European legal comparison for years in the field of consumer protection. At the time of its introduction, the Consumer Protection Act was one of the first in Europe and also one of the most advanced. But you can fix it pretty precisely with the turn of the millennium: Since then, consumer protection has led to a shadow existence, which has formally become secondary, which is completely fragmented in different resorts and is at best half-heartedly processed there. And that, although consumer protection needs are constantly increasing. New distribution systems shoot out of the ground like Schwammerl and the technological possibilities are expanding more and more. If we did not have the European Union's pressure to adapt, we would have an absolute stagnation in the field of consumer protection. The applications now show the most acute need for reform. This concerns individual claims such as the extension of the burden of proof in the case of warranty claims or the harmonisation of withdrawal periods, to the general recodification of consumer protection rights. Personally, the required improvements of online shopping, which delights more and more popular especially among young people, are especially dear to my heart. Studies have shown that only half of the websites actually comply with the legal requirements. First and foremost, the information on withdrawal rights, the legality of general terms and conditions and also on data protection schemes that are often not observed on the network is essential. There is often a complete excess of data and is subsequently passed on to other companies for advertising purposes. In addition to that, the hand-resistant restaurants on the Internet are also growing rapidly. Victims are often young people or unsuspecting computer users, who can obtain considerable sums under the guise of false facts. The investigation rate of such criminal cases is extremely low, not only in Austria. The judicial system is really helpless behind this. However, the number of complaints in consumer protection facilities has increased considerably. It is therefore all the more gratifying that there are positive examples that not only adhere to the laws but also to voluntary quality standards. But, of course, all of this will be of no use if no one knows about it. Therefore, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce and Consumer Protection Organisations have created a common e-commerce mark, a so-called euro label. At the AK there is also the service to train internet shopping properly professionally. These are, of course, very commendable initiatives, but they can only be limited. A Europe-wide label would be important here, and what you could implement nationally would be an Internet Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is a classical cross-sectional matter that is regulated not only in the KschG, but in many laws, so that it is also very difficult to grasp. Just as ease of use is a quality criterion of products, user-friendliness and clarity are a quality criterion of laws. And this quality criterion is simply no longer given in the field of consumer protection. With a general recodification instead of a flicking work, you might be able to make it again. However, confusion and confusion also exist through the division of consumer protection by competence law. The implementation of consumer protection is so many ministries that there is hardly any coordinated procedure. The Consumer Policy Advisory Council, set up in the 1970s, has not been a success since 2000! That is why we urgently need an active Consumer Protection Council, which is also involved in the legislative process and is available to all ministries in a consultative manner. The need for a strong lobby for consumers is as great as ever, especially in times like these, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4721	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4743	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would like to deal with some consumer protection issues that are now being negotiated here. However, allow me two more remarks to the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of I think we are in agreement – the current discussion has shown this, and the Federal Minister has also made it quite clear in her remarks – that in these cases, when the court has to decide on a medical measure, the controller must be heard, even if this is not explicitly mentioned in the law, as requested in the SPÖ's request. I mean, there's one thing about this. I would ask the Federal Minister to communicate this uniform will of the House to the courts as well. I do not believe that it is absolutely necessary to anchor this also by law, because there are some concerns about it the other way round. I think we all assume that a court here will, at least, hear the guard. A second clarification will allow me regarding § 274 para. 2 ABGB, where it is about how many agencies have to take over lawyers and notaries. In paragraph 2, a restriction, i.e. a presumption that no more than five bodies are reasonable, is laid down. And I believe that there is also a consensus on this when one summarizes the discussion in the Committee and here in the House that this presumption is irrefutable. That means that it is not in the discretion of the courts to allocate perhaps six, seven, eight or nine boards. I think that it is all right, on the one hand, to the professionals, who certainly have a special position here and who, of course, also have the The public must feel particularly obliged to give lawyers and notaries a certain number, but there must also be a restriction because there are no public funds in play here. Mr Maier's request to extend the burden of proof in the case of claims for warranty, which has been rejected and is still being rejected. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not possible to introduce a Quasi guarantee here, so to speak, on detours. Warranty means that the product must be flawless at the time of transfer. And the step to suspect this for six months is a very far-reaching one. You have to take all interests into account here. Expanding this period once again by six months is totally unrealistic and would almost mean a legal guarantee for the freedom of deficiencies of all products for one year. I don't think it's feasible that this is realistic. I also believe that this is not in the interests of consumers, because, in the end, such a legal guarantee would, of course, lead to an increase in the price of the products, which would, as a whole, put a burden on consumers. I believe that the step, which can be rejected for six months, to reverse the burden of proof here was correct, but that further expansion is certainly not possible and not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4794	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4815	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! If I could wish for something, I would like to see consumer protection/consumer protection finally become a political authority. First of all, we have discussed the issue of law enforcement. I think that we already have a certain state of emergency in terms of consumer policy, so that we urgently need a political response, a political authority for this important matter. Mrs Gastinger, I think that would also be an important area of work for you. You'd be too predestined for it. I do not even want to go into the open again, that is to say, my colleague's statement corresponds to my intentions, so to speak. I would just like to add two or three more aspects. Mrs Minister, first of all the association action, an old concern, it's on ice, it's in the drawer and it's not moving forward. There is a subgroup, and I know there are blockades from sides of the economy or from sides of banks, I don't know exactly. But perhaps it would be possible, within this legislative period, to close at least this open chapter, which really needs offensive and satisfactory treatment for years, so that the lack of consumer protection since 2000 is at least a small compensation. I'm allowed to talk to two other things. There's still a request from me about seal of goodness. Mrs. Minister, maybe you don't even know: The this scheme dates back to 1942! This regulation has also been adopted by a Minister for Food Safety. – Not revised since then! Anachronistic! Last note: We have heard about new fields of business, electronic communications and shopping, consumer forms. This only works when consumers are really trained properly and also know about the traps and the fins and the so-called unqualified business practices that are common. Sometimes you get the impression that many people are too naïve about these new media, give up much too naïve account numbers and visa card numbers, and then, of course, look through their fingers and be cheated on the amount. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is necessary – and there was also a request from us to Mrs Gehrer – to strengthen consumer information and training, especially in schools. If you could still look in that direction, it would be very pleasant to me. But I think this is a wish that will no longer be fulfilled in the light of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4870	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. His welcome time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4891	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to focus very briefly on the law of the matter, although I would like to point out that, in the early years, there are very few thoughts about such things – unfortunately, this is also reflected in today's debate and in attention – that this, however, is a very serious issue, which means a profound experience for the people concerned, has a very high priority in our society. You usually deal with it only when you are affected by it. If one looks at the demographic development of our society a little bit, then it must be noted that the number of possible cases in the age group of 75-85-year-olds, where one finds most cases, is currently around 400 000, with a look into the future showing that 2035 is expected to double this number. This is very critical in the final effect, because this represents a deep incision into the individual rights of individuals. If you look at the old law before 1984, you can see what you must not forget that it is actually a demise, i.e. a massive intervention. This law of law also has a slightly scaled side-taste, since it has sometimes been misused by some institutions in the past or even more recent times. If you look at the number of experts in recent years, you can see: In 1984 it stood at 21,000, in 1999 at 35 000, but in 2004 at 50,000. However, this was not detractable from the development of the population, but the reason was rather that the legal protection was misused because there were certain interests of banks, hospitals, doctors or nursing homes in the foreground. However, a very important part of this new right is for me the precautionary power. For the first time, this offers the opportunity to take place in times when a possible authority is not yet affected to select a person of trust who, if it is so far, takes over the agendas, takes responsibility for his own life. This responsibility then no longer goes to lawyers who – as has proved to be true in the past – have “supervised” people in a very high number – under quotation marks, with no personal contact at all. So from my assessment a very, very good law. Since I know that my colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé has made a significant contribution to this work, including my recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4933	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e4955	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Sachwalterrechts Amending Act has already been widely praised. I too would like to join in this praise. I know we can endure a lot of praise. I would, of course, like to praise Mrs Minister, the negotiators and also the officials in the ministry. The basis of the case-law is the law of the State in question from 1984. With the introduction of the agency, the horrendous demise God had an end, and the legal position of the cared persons was significantly improved. For the first time, there was the possibility of real support for people with disabilities, for mentally ill and for those with disabilities. Sachwalter takes care of the material situation of the people cared for, they represent them before authorities, they keep personal contact with those concerned and they also ensure social care. As a result of demographic development, the increasing life expectancy of people, and thus the increase in the number of older people, the number of trade unions has increased significantly in recent years. At the same time, there has been an increasing weakening of the autonomy of older people. This law is now intended to restrict trade unions. The right of self-determination of mentally handicapped and mentally disabled people is to be strengthened, and the introduction of precautionary powers and written rules for case-law orders is to be introduced. In some cases, for example in carrying out daily work, in matters of necessary care and the like, close relatives should be granted legal power to represent them. The law clearly regulates the circle of persons who can be appointed to be a guard, and also proposes a limitation of this number. In order to prevent abuse, there are also strict rules on precautionary power. In this context, it should also be noted positively that a central representation register should be established for this purpose. It is therefore a law that takes account of demographic development, which creates security in the sense of the people concerned and strengthens the social function of the family through the power of representation of close relatives. That's why I'm glad. I believe that this law will now be passed today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5003	The next speaker is Mrs Machne. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As has already been said several times, according to statistics, we observe that since the beginning of the 1990s, the number of procurement procedures has increased significantly. However, two thirds of people are affected, the 60. In other words, the state of the art is becoming increasingly established as a accompanying aid to seniors. According to my experience, the Sachwaltervereine perform excellent work. Many of the officers I know are also personally concerned about those people who are no longer able to cope with their everyday lives. With the law on property law to be adopted today, we have taken a necessary and modern solution in this area. The limitation of the number of possible property agencies for private individuals also ensures that more humanity and personal reference are given to the property. We have now also established a basis for finding the results in simple areas of life without the appointment of Sachwaltern. I think in practice very many, mostly older people, as well as in my personal case, but also disabled younger people are cared for by their close relatives. This responsible and deserving activity is now also subject to a direct power of representation. This decision will ensure that even more social engagement will be involved in the administration, but I also understand this law as a sign of our government and of our Mrs. Federal Minister that we are particularly concerned about the concerns and needs of the elderly and helpless people.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5062	There is another word message: Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5083	Ladies and gentlemen! This is really an organisational problem, namely: Mrs Stadlbauer has indeed tabled a request to which we all wanted to agree, which says that if an expert does not agree to medical treatment and the court should decide on this medical procedure, the case-law should be heard by the court with his dissenting opinion in all cases. – We all join this argument. We then had a discussion with the officials of the ministry who meant that it would already be enshrined in the right of extradition that a guard should be heard. . But we actually wanted that, instead of this rather vague provision in the Act of Deputies, there is a very certain duty to draw the guard to give him the opportunity to say why he is with the It is not acceptable for medical treatment, because finally and finally the guard is also responsible for his caregivers in a certain area and should also be heard. All four parties have now agreed with Mrs Stadlbauer that she will withdraw her request and that we will make a joint motion for a resolution which I am submitting. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Stadlbauer for the initiative and, secondly, for her willingness to withdraw her request in favour of this motion for a resolution with this very serious task to be given to the Ministry of Justice, which is to improve the situation. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] 15. 12
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5140	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Partik-Pablé, read by Mrs Fekter, Stadlbauer, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Stadlbauer, has your request been withdrawn? [[Abg. Stadlbauer: Yes!]] This is now a four-party resolution request that will be voted on. There is no other request, Mrs Colleague? – Good, because we are now coming to the vote. No one is reported in the word anymore. Business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5172	I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that I have been informed that this was an amendment which is also present in the Croquis, that Mrs Stadlbauer withdrew the amendment and therefore that the Croquis is to be changed, because there is no longer this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5196	I'll interrupt the meeting and ask the four clubmen to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5225	I will resume the interrupted session and postpone the vote on the Act of Change of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Goods on the Law on the Law on the Goods for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas to the Seas to the Sea (C3 (1989). The vote is therefore adjourned. There is the possibility that Mrs Stadlbauer will withdraw her amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Has she already!]] – With us, Mr Jarolim, he is not yet! We will take a close look at this so that there is no doubt about the will of the legislator. [[15:14:58]] 13. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1426, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Enforcement Act, the Federal Staff Representative Act and the 1989 Procurement Act (1520 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5266	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] – May I ask to stop the conversations here at the pult! I can't hear my own voice anymore! [[Abg. Silhavy: That is bad, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Gaál: We hear you, Mr President!]] The debate opens up to Mr Pendl. His speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5317	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that the Austrian sentence at an hour is in a very, very difficult situation. In part, the local colleagues have a very difficult service, using their lives, and I would like to thank them here today from this point of view. I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to give them the necessary help in the future. I would like to thank you very much for the government groups, you, Mrs Minister, but above all the officials of the judicial unit, for having succeeded in bringing forward a joint amendment, which I would like to highlight, because we were very committed to the matter. These are purely organisational measures, which are very important: But I mean that we still have to raise our awareness of the overall situation again and again. A few years ago, a wrong measure was adopted by outsourcing the service agents, because a separation between service supervision on the one hand and professional supervision on the other side at different levels and with different organisational structures is in no way a matter of course. We were, I believe, the first, Mrs. Minister, who recognized that the measure of bringing service and professional supervision back together is going in the right direction. – The fact that there are different ways and possibilities in such a measure lies in the nature of the matter. In the discussion both in the Committee and in discussions and discussions, we have repeatedly held a meeting that it is necessary that the educational institution should continue to have the importance it needs in the future. I would like to expressly mention the field of training here, because, together over the decades, we have really come to an excellent educational institution, where basic training in individual areas, but also vocational training, is really well organised and where best quality is provided. That is why we have been discussing this question for a very long time, and I believe it is in the interests of all – both the Service Authority and colleagues of all professional groups – that in the 21st century. At the end of the century, where we are constantly talking about lifelong learning, we are talking about continuing vocational training and further training measures, as important a educational institution as the Executive Academy has the appropriate role in the future and is also assured in the future. In this regard, as I believe, there has never been a dissent, but there we were always one opinion. But I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is absolutely necessary for us to work together. Mrs Minister, you are always aware of the exact need for planning and know where you really need to save. They know how the discussion went out and how it is at the hour with those who should have come from other resort areas, and also who really came. I believe that in the execution of the sentence, where we currently have just under 9 000 inmates, over 8 874 must already be aware that, in addition to organisational measures, we will need action in the next few weeks and months, both in the area of issues and in the areas of planning. I'm really one who says hopefully nothing happens in the next time. But I think our judicial institutions – everyone is invited to see our institutions – are really overcrowded. Our colleagueship is sometimes already hopelessly overwhelmed and stands with its back on the wall. I have asked from this place very often: We simply have to ask ourselves the question of the implementation of measures, because it cannot be assumed that we are tending to make out Austrian judicial institutions in a loud psychiatric manner. That is not, as I say, a duty of justice. Madam President, we need to discuss, in principle, the direction in which we are going – I say so – to patients. In my opinion, justice is really hopeless in this case. Both the special staff and the rest of the staff are really fighting in the institutions in the truest sense of the word. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to try to find a solution in this difficult matter, as we do now in the Organization. have created – after a solution in the interests of the matter, in the interests of our staff and also of humanity, if you wish. Mrs Grossmann will then address the particular problem of the conditions. To sum up, let me say: I believe that if you are obliged to do so, you will be able to do so even if it is difficult to admit it, and we all know that we are able to achieve a result in the interests of service, colleagueship and also of institutions, no matter what it is. And from this point of view, if all of this fits together, the Socialist Group is happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5384	Mr Praßl is now speaking. He wants a time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5405	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with a little bit of the amendment to the law of enforcement. Currently, up to three authorities may have oversight of the executive authorities of the first instance. The many parallel agents in the service and in the specialist supervision were often considered unsatisfying or inconspicuous. Both the Central Office and the President of the Court of First Instance, the President of the Supreme Court, expressed their concern accordingly. It also increased the desire for reform for a single authority between the central and judicial bodies. The condition of double-tracks is to be eliminated by the creation of a criminal execution management. In doing so, the technical and service supervision will be merged and the new authority will have a comprehensive supervisory right. The Federal Ministry of Justice will therefore be given only more strategic decisions and overarching tasks, for example in the area of establishment plan and personnel and service rights. Operational activities carried out so far by the Ministry are transferred to the Penalty Directorate. For planning, organisation, management, management, strategic controlling, organisational management and the budget, the Federal Ministry of Justice will continue to make guidance. This ensures that the Ministry can essentially focus on decisions and guidelines and must also deal with individual issues. We have also succeeded in enabling a pooling of administrative tasks in the field of criminal execution through the creation of a new authority. This new authority is to be equipped with psychologists, business operators and executives. This makes it clear and secure that a very wide range of problems can be dealt with quickly and efficiently in the sense of the Austrian population. Overall, this will lead to a streamlining of the organization with shorter decision-making channels. As a result, by avoiding multiple loads of existing structures, we are able to make the use of financial resources and staff even more efficient and at to design excellent quality. A tight and well-functioning administration with clear responsibilities and decision-making procedures and shortened decision-making channels can only be in all interest. Ladies and gentlemen! In the specific case, there would be no meaningful alternative to this procedure. After intensive preparatory work and an external study, two solutions were examined: the expansion of the competences of the Supreme Court Presidents on the one hand and the establishment of a Directorate-General on the other hand. Both variants would not be targeted. Another point that concerns the creation of the new authority also concerns the financial sector. The planned neutral introduction will fill up the new capacities through free movement in this area of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Courts and the individual judicial bodies. No additional expenditure will be charged for the accommodation of the Executive Board, on the contrary, it will be saved. As a result of the restructuring, space capacity will become free and, after a transitional period of two to three years, it will be possible to save approximately €45 000 and thus reduce rental costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, nothing will change in terms of content in the respective activities. We want to continue to ensure the high standard of enforcement. A new authority will be created and management can be made easier, more efficient, more transparent and more cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5466	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5488	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The Greens will not agree to the Penal Enforcement Act-Novelle. I have already summarised this in a dissenting opinion after the Justice Committee meeting, because this is a major concern for me. Now we are at the end of the legislative period. A decisive field of discussion both in the department and in Parliament as well as in the media was the overcrowded ports that exist in Austria. We have a record record of inmates in detention centres, i.e. police officers and police officers together. This record level of prisoners is not reflected in a record-highest level of employees in prison execution, which would actually be expected. Now I am not referring to structural measures, to other organisational measures, but only to the mandate of the law, the law of enforcement, which was agreed by all parties here in 1993 in the National Council. The Criminal Enforcement Act normizes the Resocialisation Order. The execution of the sentence does not, for example, have the task of seizing people from society, public speaking, by locking them up and then failing to make them a security potential, but the execution of the penalty has the essential task of preparing those who are being imprisoned and sitting there from the first moment for the release from prison, in order to give them the opportunity to be able to prove that, as it is so beautiful, they are a valuable part of our society. In ancient times, still before Minister Gastinger and still before Minister Böhmdorfer, it has always had scientific discussions at the Ministry of Justice about the the topic of “return” has been given; Resurgence statistics were conducted, something like a follow-up research on the “success of the criminal execution in Austria” – under quotation marks – was initiated. In the last five years there has also been a success, and this success has been expressed as follows: There have never been as full ports as it is now, and the high confusion in the supervision of the execution of the sentence and its staff, especially through the transfer of the so-called supervision to the four Supreme Courts and Supreme Court Presidents, has brought a lot of confusion with it. I trust Otto Pendl, the colleague in the National Council, who is the most and most intensive in the execution of the sentence – not only because he is employed there, but because he has been a staff representative for many years – and his experience. I do not trust him, however, when it comes to the execution of punishment and improvements in the execution of punishment, and you always see everything through glasses, namely, through the glasses of those who are busy in the execution of the sentence – through the glasses of the staff. This is the most noble and priority task of staff representatives, but they look forward to it from their needs. When there are now talks, negotiations on the new posts, which will be held in the Executive Board, about the departments and representations, about who is talking to where and who gets which posts with what teaching, and the staff representative says: We are very satisfied and agree!, then this may be understandable from the narrow point of view of staff representation, but it has nothing to do with the perspective and with a meaningful organisational structure of the Austrian execution of the sentence. That is why I remain with my criticisms, which I have already presented several times. In fact, it is a pitiful result of four years of government work if, in terms of criminal execution, the only reform remains that something is changed in the structure of penitentiary, in the organisational structure. There has been nothing happening in the National Council in recent years on all other critical points, namely the reform of the conditional dismissal, the reform of alternatives to the execution of the sentence – a little more than two prisoners who are walking somewhere in the area of Hirtenberg – to further expand the division, not only the out-of-court settlement, but other disversional measures. The Greens' motion for a resolution on the reform of the conditional dismissal has been allocated to the judicial committee, has been formally on the agenda in the judicial committee, but there has not been a content discussion about it because the content discussion has been referred to the date of the major reforms. And now Mrs. Gastinger comes and says: We are making an organisational reform, which is our contribution to the execution of the sentence! – That’s not our understanding! Instead of changing organisational structures and temporarily implementing a project in part, it would be urgent for us to start a broad discussion process – we are, together with Parliament or Parliament – in order to finally address those reform proposals that have been on the table for a long time “on the table” – in the committee, in the drawer; if they were on the table, then they would be almost intelligible – or hidden in the drawer. I admit that oppositional applications do not have to be the yellow of the egg. The proposals that we have made for a conditional dismissal have caused different reactions in science, but I have never heard anyone say that it is not worthy of discussion, but it has said quite the contrary: Let us start a discussion on how the reform in criminal law is finally initiated in Austria! It will not be done with new posts and hence also with post posts. Out of deep conviction, I maintain my opposition to this novel to the Penal Enforcement Act and have now completely failed, Mrs Minister – because you know it, and the others can read it in the divergent opinion – to say something about the way in which this law comes into existence. In this regard, I am still convinced that this is not a positive example, just as the law on property law, which has just been adopted, is to be mentioned, but quite the contrary! But there may also be better times – also for the Austrian execution of punishment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5569	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5590	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, the times have changed! Not everyone today is resocialising and also resocialising. Once upon a time, there has been the condemned person who has really slipped away from his previous life, from society, which, through various social circumstances, has slipped into crime. But today we are largely dealing with people who have raised crime to their profession, with people who, if they are still in prison, already intend to commit criminal acts when they get free again. For example, drug dealers. We know very well that a drug dealer is being sentenced, he is being imprisoned in the short term because he is usually unspoiled because he is acting under a false identity, but he already has the intention to be punished after the release. That is, how you represent that everyone is resocialising, that is simply not there. Many simply do not want to become the “valuable part of society” you are talking about, but they want to make money and are really skrupellos. Mrs Stoisits, you have said in the direction of Mr Pendl that the judicial guards are in favour of a change of law and would see the execution differently from you because that corresponds to your need. – I don’t think so much that it’s your own view and your own wishful thinking, but these officials look into reality every day. They see which people are in the execution of punishment, and they also see that there are many who simply have no interest in becoming a valuable member of society at all. The population expects us not to let the people who are really dangerous go on them, that they will also put their punishment down, and not to enjoy any credits you imagine, but, as I said, to the last day their punishment will be dropped. Now I come to the real issue, namely the change to the law of enforcement which is under discussion today with this government proposal. I recognize that I have little knowledge in the organisation of the execution of the sentence, and therefore, when this law was understood in the future, I have asked various persons who have to do with the execution of the sentence every day, what they have to do with it. That's what I'm talking about. I have talked with the Supreme Court Presidents, with national court presidents, with judicial officials and so on, and I have always heard that the previous organization is not satisfactory because there is a fragmented decision-making competence that is not satisfactory. I have heard over and over again that a change is urgently necessary, but what this change should look like was not entirely agreed on by the different people. But everyone wanted the competences of the institutions to be expanded, so to speak, the first instance. Everyone wanted to have a management for the execution of the sentence, but some wanted to have a management as their own organization, some wanted this management to be integrated into the Ministry of Justice. I, myself, have always said this in the deliberations, and wanted the Directorate to be established in the Ministry of Justice, but the experts have argued that there should be no operational organisations in the Ministry of Justice, and then the Directorate-General in the Ministry of Justice would be first and last. That means there was no instance move. The desirable alternative of expanding the competence of the institutions and thus creating an instance move was obviously not possible. For this to happen, we need to equip the service providers with our own budget and various other resources. However, we have now adopted a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister of Justice to go further and consider how more competence can be assigned to the institutions, so that we can talk about the Directorate-General in the Ministry of Justice later on. We look forward to what the Minister of Justice will once present to us, and we agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5645	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag speaks. Gastinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5666	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In general, we could all talk for hours to each other about the execution of the penalty. I think that is what Mrs Stoisits meant. This bill, which is to be voted on here, is an organisational change that was urgently needed. When I took over this office two years ago, I saw that the biggest problems in my department were certainly those in prison. As you all know, we had the highest level of detention – however –, a very low level of personnel, overburdening, few detention capacity. I have found an organization in which supervision and supervision were not in one hand, which, of course, has also led to problems in the organisation process, especially because there have been interface problems and the decision-making processes have not been clearly understood, above all, for the staff in the judicial service, but also in the non-executive area. That was also the reason why I was very pleased to have followed the demand that was first made by the Staff Office, both from the Justice Department and from the non-executive sector, that we should bring service supervision and professional supervision together. I have a project in this area at the Ministry of Justice. to carry out the best possible ways of reuniting the supervision and supervision of services in order to increase efficiency, in particular. Of course, the representatives of the judicial guards, but also the heads of the institutions and all the parties concerned, and of course also Mrs Stoisits, were involved in this project at a very early stage. I have also given an extra mandate that all parties represented in the National Council should be informed in the form of judicial speakers and should also be consulted on their views so that this can also be included in the considerations. The result of this project, it is a purely organisational project, is now the execution management for your vote. This means that, in the future, only strategic tasks will remain in the Ministry of Justice. A small area will remain in the Ministry of Justice for the Penalty, a much larger area will be regulated in a secondary service. This means that we want to allow for interdisciplinary access, which is particularly important because this is not possible in the Ministry of Justice at the moment, because in the Ministry of Justice, what is happening to academics, only judges and prosecutors are involved in the field of criminal enforcement. My approach has always been to create interdisciplinary access to this very sensitive area. This also means a permissiveness from the field of execution, whether in the field of executives or also in the field of non-executives, and I have considered this to be useful and useful, which has also come to broad agreement. I think that this path here is a real one. I also agree, however, that I have a long-term vision that we are equipping the judicial institutions with more competence, especially in matters of service law. This will take more time, however, than I am available for this reform. I also welcome the amendment that has been agreed between the political groups at the last minute - can we really say - that the very successful Penalty Academy should remain its own service, which will then be set up. That was planned anyway, but now it is really clear. I believe that we will take an important step here in order to make organisational structures in this very sensitive area really as possible. I would also like to respond very briefly to the accusations that we have not done anything for the execution of the sentence in this government. I can only reject that! We have – and that is right – the highest level of detention we have ever had in this Republic. In 2000, we had about 7 000 prisoners with a foreign share of around 28 percent, and we now have about 9 000 prisoners with a percentage of 43 percent. – You see, if the borders had not been opened – sounds simplified, I know that too, but it is – and if we were to calculate this proportion of foreigners, we would still be at about the same level as in 2000. I must admit, however, that this is not a typical Austrian phenomenon, but that it is a phenomenon that is due to organised crime, which affects the entire rich West, especially Central Europe. We have to face this challenge, and we have faced this challenge! In 2000, the level of employment in the field of justice was 3,536, and I have now succeeded in increasing the level of staffing to 3,759 judicial officers in a very hard way, as you can imagine, but thanks to the National Council, successful agenda negotiations have finally been successful. I admit that this is still too little. Personally, I would like us to be able to use even more staff in the field of justice, and I also hope that in the next legislative period, more staff will succeed in this area. I can also tell you that we have received more budgets for the execution of the sentence, in particular in the area of security measures, but also in the area of constructions, which means that arrests have been used in the field of judicial institutions. We are currently carrying out model projects on replacement sentences, non-profit work instead of replacement sentences. I hope very good results, especially in the longer term I can imagine that instead of short sentences of freedom, we will provide non-profit work as a criminal sanctions. Currently the model project “Electronic Monitoring”, “Electronic Feet”, is running in the area of conditional discharge. I can imagine that in the longer term we can also provide for electronic monitoring instead of withdrawal from freedom in certain criminal matters. I am also always ready to discuss the conditional dismissal, but this takes time, which we will certainly take once. Now I've been talking for a long time, but the execution of the penalty is really my heart. Finally, I would like to thank all the judicial officers and judicial guards, but also the whole non-executive staff for investing so much commitment and energy in dealing with their tasks, because without them, this criminal action in Austria, which is aimed at resocialisation – that is our main concern – and the prevention of relapses, would not work in this form. A warm thanks also to the team around my employee Heidi Pippan and Major Steinacher and to all those who were still involved in this restructuring project. I know how difficult it was to actually carry out this task in this short period of time. Of course, a reorganisation measure causes a lot of unrest, and I hope that this unrest will soon be restored and we can really focus on the work again. Thank you to all those who have worked here, and to you, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5754	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5776	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Otto Pendlschon gave his opinion on the creation of the new authority, the Pendlschon Pendl. Considering the need for reform in Austria’s criminal service – and here I already agree with Mrs. Stoisits’ diagnosis – then It must be said that this is a small step, a very small step, but at least one step in the right direction. Punishment is a most sensitive asset, Mrs. Minister – I agree with your diagnosis – which really deserves our highest attention. But after all, our society is particularly confronted with its boundaries in this area and is being tested in its humanity. If one takes the highest good of a person, namely his freedom, then all the provisions must be made for this intervention to be made as gentle as possible. The organisational framework must be designed in such a way that the primary purpose of criminal proceedings has at least one chance to be achieved. For the primary purpose of punishment, I mean the special prevention that the prisoner really comes to understand, is held by further crimes and is again socialized. Everyone deserves a second chance, and I dare to doubt whether this is really the case in the current criminal proceedings. However, this is certainly not the case with the staff of the Justice Department. They are subject to the highest physical and psychological strains, and they really deserve the best possible support and the best possible training in order to fulfil their difficult tasks. The organisational reform that we have to adopt today is just a small mosaic and certainly not suitable to solve the whole problem. This claim can certainly not be applied to this referendum. The prisons are now overcrowded. We have got to the 9 000 prisoners in Austria, and it is really high time to reduce the numbers of prisoners instead of stopping the prisons more and more. Alternatives such as the electronic footbands are successful promising models, which are extended. Impunity must really remain the last resort and should be kept as short as possible. Diversion, fines, social work must be imposed as a matter of priority. If courts with conditional redundancies are so emphatically treated restrictively, then this has its reasons, and this also requires its consequences by politics. The resulting dismissal after the half-punished is still the exception, and the release after two thirds of the term of detention is still not a matter of course. But this is not because of the sharpness of our judges' mentality. In the course of my court practice, I have worked with a judge and I also continue to ask myself about the current situation, and if you talk with arresters, you will also receive the answer: If they are not 100% sure that they do not have a say in them, then they do not leave them free, because the staff is missing for the control of the requirements and the probation aid is nevertheless not necessarily under-occupied. In my opinion, this is a serious contradiction: We would rather let thousands of prisoners fry in the port, where hardly anyone really improves before investing in a really efficient resocialization. – In my opinion, this logic is self-evident.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5827	Mr Ing. Kapeller now speaks to us for 3 minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minute? – As you wish, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this novelle deals only with the aggregation of the service and professional supervision. I would just like to make two more points and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the basis of the creation of a new Federal Office, I appeal to the federalism and decentralisation ideas – and what is closer to that? This department is responsible for the whole federal territory in the future, and the Oberösterreich site with Location Linz would be excellent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5914	The amendment by Mr Fekter, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Pendl, which has been selected by Mr Kapeller, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5969	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes of welcome; 20 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e5990	Mr President. High house! In fact, the situation in criminal execution is anything but particularly positive and, of course, the Federal Government's criminal law policy has been a major factor in not improving conditions in this area. But this does not change the fact that we are taking a step in the right direction in the sense of the execution agencies. We could also have imagined a further step, but we believe that, for the time being, a unit of enforcement, away from the Supreme Courts, will take place and a number of different experts from the various areas will be able to ensure a better implementation of the sentence. That is why we will give our approval here. Mrs Bundesminister, Otto Pendlhat made me aware of a development that is unfortunate. We all know that the execution of the penalty should ensure that those persons who are in prison are less dangerous to society than before after the release. That is why, of course, the enforcement must also be geared towards it; Resocialisation, integration into society, all these things. The so-called economies, the agriculture, are very important for this. We now have in Asten, which was in the newspaper this morning, the problem that there is a farm in which 20 to 25 people are to be employed. I can really ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to do all you can to ensure that this does not happen, because this employment is better for inmates – I would also like to see other jobs, further developments – than to do nothing at all. If we failed to maintain this employment potential in Asten, that would really be a great thing. We will be happy to take this small step. We hope that there will be a further positive description of this path in the future, and therefore give our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6027	Last word: Mr Dr. Liechtenstein. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6048	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am pleased that there is much clarity in this matter of law. The essential thing about this has already been said. The reorganisation of the judiciary is certainly important. Technical and service supervision is now separate. It is perfectly right that there is now a criminal execution management that can coordinate the whole thing. The proposals that the Centre should not be in Vienna I consider quite a way of having it evenly far from all sides. Mrs Fekter said it, Mr Kapeller said it: Things are clear. I can now address the following matter: We have also had Europe's day here today. We need to see one thing: The legal system is also in a European competition. The more Europe becomes a political Union, the more the national and legal systems of the Member States are in competition. This also applies to civil law, but also to criminal law and enforcement, as well as to public administration and administrative procedures. This is a pan-European thing whose development has already begun. The increasing compaction of our legal order must be observed. That is why we need this new regulation, and we will agree to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6087	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the law on criminal enforcement, the Federal Staff Representatives Act, the 1989 Procurement Act, the Criminal Procedure Act 1975 and the Youth Court Act 1988 into 1520 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Pendl, colleagues have tabled an additional request. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 1520, together with the title and receipt, taking account of the supplementary request made by Mrs Fekter, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Pendl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This too is majority. Adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the 1520 committee report. If you agree to this resolution, I ask for a sign to be given. – The approval shall be granted by a majority. Accepted. (E 185.) [[16:02:54]] Vote on agenda items 4 to 12
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6155	We shall now proceed to the postponement of the vote on agenda items 4 to 12. Before we enter the voting process, I announce that Mrs Magistrate too now. Stoisits withdrew its amendment to the Act on Property Rights. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Amending Act 2006, together with the title and receipt in 1511 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign in this regard. – Consent is unanimous. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This approval is also unanimous. [[Federal Minister Mag. Gastinger talks to an employee.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] May I ask that there be no talk at the ministerial level during the vote! We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the 1511 committee report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 186.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others concerning an "easy to read" section of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Human Rights. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 187.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on the evaluation of the law on property law amendment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign of this. – Adopted unanimously. (E 188.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Fekter, Mr Stadlbauer, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues with regard to the consultation of experts on medical treatment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is granted unanimously. (E 189.) We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the legal order, including the title and receipt in 1513 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given. – Consent is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Home Residence Act, including the title and receipt in 1512 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a sign in this regard. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this bill at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1514 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign on this matter. – The consent will be given by a majority. The request was accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1515 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign in this regard. – The request was adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1516 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign of this. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1517 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign in this regard. – The consent will be given by a majority. Adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1518 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign in this regard. – The approval shall be granted by a majority. The request was accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1519 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This approval is also given by a majority of the House. The application is therefore accepted. [[16:07:48]] 14. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1428, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insurance Contract Act 1958 and the Insurance Supervision Act (Insurance Law 2006 – REVELATION 2006) (1521 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1427, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Company Book Act, the Corporate Code, the Code of Law on Jurisdiction, the Act on limited liability companies, the Stock Act 1965, the Law on Court Fees and the Commercial Representative Act (Publicity Directive Act – PuG) (1523 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1421, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz (SCE-Law – SCEG) as well as the cooperative law, the company book law, the law on law enforcement, the law on legal fees, the Law on legal contributions 1962, the Banking Law, the Pensions Act, the Stock Exchange Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Labour Constitution Act, the Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution, the Labour and Social Court Law and the Land Labor Law 1984 (Central Law 2006 – Genräg 2006) (1522 d.B.) 17. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1429, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Aviation Act and the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Air Transport 1997 (1524, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6411	We shall now proceed to points 14 to 17 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jarolim was the first Member to speak. He wants to talk to us for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6438	Mrs. Federal Minister! I would particularly like to address the cooperative law amendment law and the aviation law. On the cooperative law amendment law two points: First: It is an EU matter to be implemented. Secondly, There should also be in the cooperative law for cooperatives all the possibilities available in corporate law in the European context as a whole. In that respect, we could actually agree, since it is a matter of course to offer a variety of legal forms in the choice of legal forms, even where there is a need for implementation anyway. What we do not understand, however, is why, in the context of the amendments, one has not also provided for what is a matter of course in capital companies, namely the possibility of mandatoryly providing the Supervisory Board with more rights. We all know that there is the corporate governance discussion. It is a matter of course that the Supervisory Board in the companies receives appropriate efficient rights. It is important to ensure that everything is carried out properly. The different developments in the various economic sectors show that it is useful to equip the Supervisory Board accordingly. Why you do not or do not want to do this on this point is completely incomprehensible to all of us – I spoke to Mr Lacner about it before. There are many areas – construction, agriculture – where cooperatives are quite comparable or equivalent to normal economic enterprises. Why the Supervisory Board is supposed to be very weak here is completely incomprehensible. That is why we do not agree. As far as the aviation law is concerned, I would like to thank all those who have, in the end, contributed to preventing, from my point of view, an extremely problematic solution from the rule of law and to provide a reasonable solution, and a conciliation body, which I believe is reasonable, would have to be established in the Austro Control, which is itself a party. The issue here is that, for example, in the case of delays in flight Passengers should be able to complain and that can be agreed in some way. However, the Austro Control is responsible for delays through the allocation of air traffic movement possibilities. So a reasonable solution could now be found. As I said, I thank all those who have contributed to this. In fact, it cannot be legitimate to entrust a body concerned with decision-making competence. In this respect, there is also a request that goes further, namely that we set up a separate body for similar topics for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6497	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. He too speaks for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6518	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The amendment to the Aviation Act and the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Aviation, which we decide today, in particular regulates the liability of air carriers. Indeed, the Montreal Convention has regulated liability, unlike before. The European Union has taken account of this by amending the relevant directive, and we are now following it. From our point of view, it is particularly important that the liability of carriers is covered by liability insurance, and with this novelle to the Aviation Act there is once again equal coverage, i.e. the maximum liability amounts and the minimum insurance amounts are equal to coverage. There are special rules for sports pilots, which are very useful – and there is another amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann will bring in – namely: While otherwise the carrier is liable with up to 100 000 special drawing rights per passenger regardless of the debt, the sport aircraft – these were in the previous draft hanger, paraglider and Parachutes; these are now supplemented by sailplanes, ultralight aircraft and free balloons – only liable in the event of indebtedness. We also have a proper differentiation in the amount of liability insurance: While the holder of an aircraft per existing passenger seat must complete a liability insurance sum of more than 250 000 special drawing rights, there is only a prescribed insurance sum of more than 100 000 special drawing rights for non-commercial flights. A debated, even further improvement for non-commercial aircraft, i.e. in the so-called convenience flights, would have had an excessive disadvantage on the commercial economy. I therefore believe that the current regulation is very appropriate. As the last and most important point: Today, we are implementing the so-called European Union Overbooking Regulation, where we have had an EU mandate since July 2005. Of course, the regulation itself is to be implemented, but Austria has not yet announced the European Union's "designated body of appeal" and has established it with us. It does not make sense for anyone who has a claim for compensation to enforce this claim in court under this EU Regulation. This could lead to a standstill of the courts. So we need an arbitration agency. There was a proposal to set up this arbitration body at Austro Control GesmbH, which has the data in case of delays. It has already been said by Dr. Jarolim that this body itself could be responsible for delays. It is therefore very difficult to establish the arbitration office there. It was for this reason the wish of the commercial economy that an independent body would become this arbitration body. And in the amendment that we are presenting today, it is foreseen that the Federal Ministry of Transport will perceive it. Overall, this is an appropriate, optimal solution. We are all pleased that we can adopt this law unanimously, as I hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6569	Mr Wittmann is now speaking. He too speaks for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6591	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Insurance Contract Act is also amended. I believe that there is quite a reasonable regulation. Then: In the case of life insurance, it is the case that the administrative and distribution costs are transferred to the policyholders and therefore these costs can also be taken into account in the early years in the case of any buybacks, and this legislative innovation is now being better divided, which is a reasonable regulation, these administrative costs and is now taking place a better balance of interest between the policyholder and the insurance institution. In addition, this Insurance Contract Act also provides for compensation in respect of equal treatment for men and women, particularly in the case of health insurance, where the expenses in pregnancy or maternity should not result in higher premiums or reductions in benefits. This too is a reasonable scheme. On the whole, it can be said that this insurance contract law provides an effective compensation between consumers and providers, and therefore it is to be supported and received from our group as well. As regards the company book law, which is dealt with under item 16 of the agenda, it is to be welcomed that one takes account of developments in the electronic field, i.e. that, at European level, the disclosure obligations of companies of certain legal forms can also be made electronically possible to include the balance sheets or the annual accounts in the company's book. With the exception of small companies up to 70 000 turnover. This too is a reasonable arrangement that we can agree with. With regard to the Aviation Act, I would like to say that there is an exception to sports equipment, namely paragliding, paragliding and paragliding, and therefore the exercise of sports is not inhibited by further administrative acts. Hot air balloons and other sports equipment are also subject to derogation for sports pilots. In the sense of sport, this is to be welcomed in order not to overshadow the sports exercise with a law that would bring further administration to the athletes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6624	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6645	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Aviation Act is necessary because liability and insurance obligations in air law need to be reformed, simply due to the fact that there are appropriate international requirements that apply to transfer into national law. This concerns both the commercial area of aviation and the one to be associated with air transport. There is, as we have already heard, a Montreal Convention, which dates back to 1999, which contains certain rules on international air transport and a uniform system. This Montreal Convention is a resolution of the 1999 Warsaw Agreement, together with additional protocols, which is no longer contemporary from today's point of view. The subject area of application of the Montreal Convention concerns the transport of persons, luggage and goods, and it is free of charge and free of charge. There are Community rules on insurance requirements for air carriers and aircraft operators. The coverage of replacement claims arising from the transport also concerns liability for third party damage. This includes the minimum amount of insurance and the maximum liability, and the respective weight thresholds are also indicated. Allow me in connection with § 164 para. Two more comments or try to make it clear, namely: Of course, a pilot seat is not a passenger seat, and from this point of view it is not intended for the transport of passengers, and therefore the liability insurance will not be applicable, nor will it be required for that seat to be completed. What reaches the copilot seat, it can be used both as well. I call on the insurers to take this into account. There are flights in which a copilot is very likely to have this seat. There is no liability insurance obligation. It is different if the copilot seat can be used by a passenger if the requirement to sit a copilot on the right to have not been given. May this be taken into account – at least statistically – in the definition of the premium. I now accept the amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. The National Council wants to decide: 1. Article I Point 11 is as follows: ‘11. The following section 139a and heading are inserted after § 139a: “ That's the dispute resolution. ‘§ 139a. 1. Without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts, passengers and air carriers may object to disputes or complaints as a result of alleged infringements of property and prohibitions arising from Regulation (EC) No. 261/2004 establishing a common system of compensation and support for passengers in the case of non-transport and cancellation or major delay of flights and repealing Regulation (EEC) No. 295/91, presented to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology shall seek a common solution or inform the parties of its opinion on the case. Air carriers shall be obliged to participate in such a procedure and to provide all the information necessary for the assessment of the situation and to provide the necessary documentation. (2) The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology has guidelines for the implementation of the 1 to publish the procedures provided for and in appropriate form. The Directives shall also, in particular, lay down appropriate deadlines for the termination of the procedure.’; 2. In Article I Z 12, § 156 para. 3: ‘(3) Where a passenger is transported by a sailplane, ultra-light aircraft, free balloon, hanger, paraglider, paraglider or motorised hanger or paraglider, and killed or injured by an accident on the body, the carrier shall be liable for the entire damage only if it is due to his or his or her indebtedness or to the indebtedness of his or her people.’ After my previous speakers have already referred to both parts of the amendment in their speech, I am saving myself the reason for this request for time-term economic reasons, but would like to conclude by stressing: However, in the context of this Conciliation Body, it should be examined as soon as possible whether an independent body can be entrusted with this task. I still allow to add: I believe that this could also be an independent body which is a conciliation body for several modes of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6728	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann proposed amendment tabled by Mr Hofmann, Mr Fekter, Mr Jarolim, colleagues on the Government template concerning a Federal Act amending the Aviation Act and the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Air Transport in 1997, 1429 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee report 1524 of the Supplements, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6816	Mrs. Gastinger has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6837	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief this time. I would just like to respond to what Dr. Jarolim asked, namely why we did not provide for stronger supervisory activity or more competence for the Supervisory Board of cooperatives. To this end, I would like to say that we have very probably strengthened the possibilities of the individual members of the Supervisory Board of a cooperative. According to the new legal situation, each member of the Supervisory Board will in the future require information from the Executive Board on the current situation of cooperatives. In this context, I should like to say the following: Since cooperative law is its own legal matter, which is particularly characterised by great freedom of association, a further determination of the supervisory board possibilities, as provided for in the Stock Exchange or Stock Exchange Act, would be practically out of the art. Furthermore, we must not forget that the cooperative review system with the conduct control, which also includes the review of management measures, is an additional control factor which cannot be underestimated. In addition, I am very pleased that, after the discussion so far, it is now beginning to appear that most of the legal instruments under negotiation will be given broad approval, and I would like to express my express thanks at this point. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6874	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6895	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Very short, short and brittle. First of all, the Aviation Act: I am glad that there will now be a Conciliation and Liability Body, and the BMVIT is first the contact person for these cases. I would like to say to the independent Conciliation Authority you are considering: I do not know anyone in the transport sector at the moment – I do not know if you have included the Transport Safety Board in your considerations – but I know about the many complaints. We know from the consumer sector that an eerie flood of complaint is to be treated again and again in the aviation sector. I myself have experienced that afternoon flights from one and the same airline – three were announced – have been moved from 1 o'clock to the 8 o'clock flight. That means people had to wait seven and eight hours. Such a thing is not reasonable. There are even worse cases. . We will, of course, agree with this bill or draft law. Now a few remarks about the Insurance Law Amendment Act. One of my previous speakers has already pointed out that it is essential to pay attention to gender issues and to minimise inequality between men and women, especially in the case of health insurance. This has not yet been fully implemented in this case. Mrs Minister, you have promised to continue working on this in the Committee. We now have a better rules on pregnancy and maternity and also a better rules for those who buy back, and that is why we will also give our consent to this law. Finally, a few more sentences on the cooperative law amendment law. You know, cooperative structures have a long tradition. Co-operative structures also live by the fact that there are good supervisory councils to have good supervisory bodies, and I therefore fully agree with my colleague Jarolim, who has explained how important it would be for cooperatives to develop the rights of supervisory councils in accordance with the law of shares. I will now present this somewhat more stylistically refined: I would be very concerned about the catalogue of legal transactions, which may only be concluded in the company law with the approval of the Supervisory Board, as a mandatory provision of statutes in the law of cooperatives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6938	Mr Doppler is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e6960	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me just a few comments on the Insurance Law Amendment Act. I think that this change in the burden on the account has really created a new transparency and that it has been taken very seriously into account by the consumer protectionists of the AK and consumers. In the field of life insurance and pension provision, the final costs have always been recorded at the beginning of the contract, which has led to a negative balance sheet. With this new scheme, the final costs must now be divided into five years. In this area, there is a real demand for greater transparency, and we want to take this into account. This change will also strengthen confidence between insurers and consumers. A better consultation for long-term contracts is expected. Serial institutions, well-trained consultants and information without time pressure lead to material and technical qualifications and are rarely cancelled except in the event of serious changes. In the case of aggressive insurance distribution systems, consumer protection is now significantly increased. A fairer competition will significantly increase confidence between suppliers and consumers. Allow me also a sentence on the gender-specific premiums and benefits: These must be filed and documented in a mathematical and mathematical manner. I think it is a good rule that, in the future, not only commercial wishes of insurance are to be taken into account if different premiums and benefits are sold. However, allow me also, ladies and gentlemen, to make the following request on item 15 of the agenda today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7051	Mr Doppler's amendment, drawn up by Mr Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, ladies and gentlemen are well-founded and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7134	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7156	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address the dispute resolution agency very briefly, as far as air traffic is concerned, because the discussion between the possible options that one could choose there has gone a little bit further. It should not be ignored that, if we now look at the around 500 to the present complaints, of which 200 are entitled, it is unfortunate that the AUA is very well aware of all of this, but above all the foreign airlines are always very quick to point to a technical mistake, and thus to excavat the complainants from home at once the same time the water. That is why our first approach – Mr Jarolim has already done this – was the Austro Control itself, because of course it has all the possibilities to verify whether this information corresponds to the facts. With the current solution to settle at BMVIT once, but to give BMVIT the opportunity to fulfil this task within the framework of an then independent construction of a control body, our support is provided in principle. However, despite all of this, I would point out that it must also have the necessary competences, because it is not very favourable for the consumer who complains if this dispute resolution body needs to follow all the data or has no access or the data is not provided. Therefore, it will be necessary to have a strong combination of BMVIT and Austro control to find a good and portable solution in the interests of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7189	Mr Murauer is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7212	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would also like to focus on the 2006 Insurance Law Amendment Act, which aims to take account of consumer orientation. This law will allow insurance companies to divide the final costs of personal insurance, i.e. life insurance or precautionary insurance, for five years. In other words, in case of early repayment, the consumer aliquot will recover these costs. This serves to increase confidence, and this will strengthen the precautionary insurance that we see as a stand-by for pension insurance accordingly. I think that this will also increase the safety of consumers who may be working with very commission-oriented employees, so that they can put more confidence in this form of insurance. – This is certainly a very reasonable matter. I would also like to point out that there will be equality between women and men. This has not been the case with health insurance, but there have been different premiums in relation to pregnancy and maternity. These different premiums for women and men will only be allowed in those sectors where statistics and insurance policy can justify an appropriate risk assessment. Last point: I would like to point out that the years of claims of insurance representatives or agents have now been taken into account and a corresponding improvement in the situation has been provided for by a change in the Trade Representatives Act. I think these are good measures, and I am pleased to have a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7246	Mr Dernoscheg is the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7264	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me also briefly address some of my important points in the legislative proposals and then make two or three fundamental comments. As far as insurance is concerned, I would like to stress – and this has already been said by the previous speakers, but I would like to stress it very clearly – that an insurance provision has now been drawn up in the continuation of a woman's self-confidence policy in the Federal Government, which no longer makes it possible for different premiums to be applied on grounds of maternity or pregnancy. I also ask the women's politicians here in this House to take this very positively from the Federal Government. A number of simplifications are being implemented in the Publication Directive Act. – This has already been addressed today. In particular, electronic commerce is a major facilitation for companies that are up-to-date with electronics. I am particularly concerned, however, with the amendment tabled by Mr Doppler, this small point 24 in § 26. This is about 12 000 trade representatives, about 14 000 insurance agencies. The are small and micro-enterprises, and for all who always run the one-person companies in their mouths: These are individual companies! The fact that they can now again receive a special charge for their work for the respective client – for their work in the sense of a market building – is an essential point, and I would like to thank all those who have taken a close look at the suggestions of the trade representatives and the insurance agents in the judicial committee. – That’s what I call life assurance for the little ones! I should just like to add a point of principle, Mr President. I would also ask you here in the House to pay attention to a problem concerning Styria. We might be dealing with the next SPÖ disaster. I'm very sorry: The airline Styrian Spirit has no follow-up. The managers there say that it had been granted a successor to them by the head of state Voves. There's nothing left. Yesterday, the Industrial Union and the External Trade Unions call for finally to do something, because the internationally organized economy, which is located in Styria, is excellently located in the automotive and pharmaceutical sectors...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7309	You are not talking about it, Mr President. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Dr. Dernoscheg.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First we come to the vote on the draft Insurance Law Amendment Act 2006, together with the title and receipt in 1428 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is done unanimously. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft directive on publicity in 1523 of the Supplements. Mr Fekter, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Hizu have tabled an additional request. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the additional request made by Mr Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues. I am looking for a positive sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given unanimously. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft cooperative law amendment law 2006, including title and receipt in 1522 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at the third reading, to give an indication of this. – Here, too, the majority of the house gives this sign. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Aviation Act and the Federal Law on Intergovernmental Air Transport 1997 in 1429 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Hofmann, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government's proposal. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Mr Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which is in its own right. 1 C 11 and 12. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This sign is done unanimously. The amendment was adopted unanimously. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. [[16:43:48]] 18. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the opposition of the Federal Council (1441, e.g.) against the law decision of the National Council of 29 December 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons and persons in the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons at the right of residence in the Member State of residence. March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the Takeover Act, the Commercial Code, the Stock Exchange Act, the Conversion Act and the Splitting Act and adopting a Federal Act on the Exclusion of Minorities (Conclusion Law 2006 – OTHER 2006) (1529 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7452	We now reach the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim is already at the speaker's desk.]] Dr. Jarolim can't expect it anymore. Nevertheless, he gets the floor immediately. 5 minutes speaking time, but not so many. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7487	Mr President. I no longer wanted to hold back with my greeting – also to you – and that was actually the occasion of the game of mine. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dernoscheg, the Styrian Spirit, may I tell you, would be a scandal if it were a need for the Carinthian head of state to allow the Steiermarks to flow in there. – And this is God’s thanks do not take place. So I'd rather get in touch with that before you put it that way. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act on Takeover Rights, which we have to deal with today, is a rather sad chapter. We had it in the National Council before. It was then in the Federal Council, and one must expressly thank the ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Council – and I would like to do this here from this point of view – for the fact that the law has been treated there in a way that unfortunately God did not happen in the National Council in the previous history. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please go!]] Therefore, it could also be possible to say to Mrs. Partik-Pablé, what the Supreme Court has already established by its review board, and also the Bar Association, the Austrian Bar Association, has prepared that the 2006 Act on Takeover Law Amendment, as we had decided in the National Council and how you intend to decide today, is not a proper implementation of the EU Directive. Why? – This is a presumption when a mastery stat can occur. That's where you wrote in the law: Everything less than 25 percent – i.e. if someone holds a 25 percent stake – is not dominant. In any event, I want to save my history, I think you all know it, because this is already being dealt with here in the National Council for the second time – that the majority of social rights – that is, the dominant majority – is at least far below 25 percent – from 15 percent to 20 percent – can be found in general meetings, and therefore, of course, one should have behaved accordingly. The law is more or less a favor to some societies and partners in the country, which are thus released from the Bredouille for the future accordingly. I think this is a simple non-implementation, because the Austrian conditions – if they say so – are not comparable to either German or English. One would have to look very sensitive in individual cases when there is a mastery status stock in Austria. That is what Professor Doralt said. . So all those who have some kind of knowledge of this have given a clear opinion: This is not the case, and in so far as you have consistently done it exactly as it should not be, so that an optimization of non-regulatory implementation actually takes place. You can congratulate it if you want to. - I'm not doing it. I think that, unfortunately, there has not been a good chance for the capital market in Austria and I therefore regret your future voting behaviour in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7527	Next word: Mr Ledolter. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7548	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Jarolim, it is always the case that You declare yourself in your words to stand up for the protection of the little ones, for the protection of the interests of all those who so to speak need this protection. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Your interests too!]] – Well, have the last time. They have risen to claim that Austria is a banana republic – also in this debate. I don't want to go into that at all. I just think it would be necessary to remind you that it would be good to protect those who handle money and entrust money to you - all those who obviously have a red party book and work in similar functions. And I am thinking primarily of the money of those who, for example, entrust red functional money as taxpayers and then receive debt as a result, or of the money of the trade unionists who were entrusted and mistrusted, or of the money of the members of the ARBÖ, who have to take note that dreaming is paid – also on the back of the little ones, the little savers you are supposed to accept over and over again. Or I am thinking of the money of the savers at the BAWAG, which is sunk in the Caribbean, or of the money of all those who have paid for the “consumer” association and who have also been bitterly disappointed. – This list could continue for a long time, and in fact it could be called by the SPÖ and its officials to the red trade unions. The fact is, however, that we are talking today about nuclear shareholders and their protection and the Austrian conditions, and they are not really so different from those in the European environment. . I would just like to remind you that the thresholds for controlling participations in the European context are between 30 and 33 percent, from Germany to France, Great Britain, Switzerland and Denmark. Norway already has a higher percentage, Portugal 33 to 50 percent, and Finland up to 67 percent. Therefore, I believe that the scheme is good and that it cannot happen that with the new regime shareholders, which hold between 10 and 20 percent, suddenly stand by re-transmissions in the ownership structure as majority shareholders, or, in part, are even forced to make takeover bids, which was quite possible under the previous regulation. Finally, the new regulation ensures that this cannot happen. This is a law that raises legal and investment security in our country, provides for design possibilities with syndicate and voting agreements and more, a law that is good for the people, good for the economy, and therefore good for our country and obviously another proof of the performance of our government under Wolfgang Schüssel. We are on a good path and thus continue in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7585	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7606	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I have just read what I said in the last debate, then in March, when we – not us, but the government parties – passed this law. I said at that time that Austria is not a banana republic, but one should not mix apples with pears – in relation to the previous speaker, that was then Mr. Ikrath, a manager. But not every manager is thinking about the common good of all concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: He already! Michael Ikrath already!]] I can only repeat what I said at the time, because it has not changed in terms of conditions: The new right of acquisition does not mean less than the major abolition of effective control of acquisitions. – This is not a sentence from me, but I read about what the Bar Association has written in its opinion on this Act on Takeover Law Amendment. In its opinion, the Board of Law has also mentioned that this law leads to a massive deterioration in the position of shareholders and that in the long term it will seriously affect the attractiveness of the Austrian capital market, because the Austrian capital market is not comparable to that of other countries. It is not comparable to other countries, and all those who have anything to do with economy – and have much more to do with economy than I do, but if even I know it, then I think it will act against better knowledge. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you would have believed that you know more! I would've trusted her more in knowledge!]] That's the one way. The second possibility is not to act against better knowledge, but to decide on behalf of lobbyists who want a law as you now decide. But then one must insist that it is not about taking into account small shareholders or the shareholder structure, as it exists in Austria, but about other stakeholders. I can only join in the criticism that has been repeated, which goes so far as to say that this law is constitutionally questionable because it constitutes a massive interference in the property rights of small shareholders. We Greens will reject the law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7660	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7681	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to Mr Jarolim and Mrs Stoisits that it would be paradoxical to suggest that we want to harm the small shareholder or the core shareholder in Austria. – The exact opposite is the case! Anyone who looks at the privatisation policy of this federal government, anyone who knows how modern the capital market in Austria is, how successful it is, can read from the fact that it is this federal government that has done a lot for the shareholder culture in that country. This law is more than just a modern shareholder culture in our country. Therefore, from our point of view, it is clear that this new takeover law will also be adopted as we have prepared it very carefully and for a very long time, and that is good for the Austrian economic location! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I can give Mr Jarolim the following as the subject of Styrian Spirit was attracted by the ÖVP: I was represented in the Supervisory Board and I know that Mr. Landeshuptmann Voves has the company on the conscience. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: You brought it down!]] – 150 jobs only he destroyed! We waited until the last second and negotiated with him. We wanted to save the company because it was an important infrastructure company for Carinthia, for Styria and for Salzburg in the future. You would have had it in your hand to secure 150 jobs in Styria, but this is your policy: To destroy jobs and damage Austria's economic location. - We can't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7727	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Justice in 1529. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee submits the application, the original decision of the National Council of 29 December. March 2006 concerning a federal law that amends the Takeover Act, the Commercial Code, the Stock Exchange Act, the Conversion Act and the Splitting Act and redefines a Federal Act on the Exclusion of Minorities (Conclusion Law 2006 – OTHER 2006). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 of the Federal Constitution repeats its original decision. [[16:57:37]] 19. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1183, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the housing property law 2002 (Wohnrechtsnovelle 2006 – WRN 2006) (1530 d.b.) 20. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1182, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the obligation to submit an energy card on sale and on the in-consistency gift of buildings and objects of use (EAVG) (1531 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 294/A by Mr Doris Bures, Members and colleagues on a Federal Law amending the Law on Rental Law (1532, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 526/A (E) by Mr Mag. Ruth Becher, colleagues with regard to restrictions on approved rental contracts (1533, e.g.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 542/A (E) by Mr Mag. Ruth Becher, colleagues with regard to clear and comprehensible rental interest limits (1534, e.g.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 675/A (E) by Mr Mag. Ruth Becher, colleagues on the limitation of deposits (1535 d.a.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 659/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on renting interest rates (1536b) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment 660/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on deposit repayments in rental law (1537, e.g.) 27. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment 661/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members and colleagues on the limitation of the right of hire (1538, e.g.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 787/A (E) by Mrs Gabriela Moser, Members of Parliament on strengthening the consideration of energy saving and climate protection measures in residential law (1539 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7894	We now come to points 19 to 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to the honourable Member. Mulder. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7921	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Six years of black-troubled housing law policy have been a bad six years for the tenants. Whenever you do so by the government parties at the rental and housing law, this is at the expense of about 1.5 million tenants in this country. A total of 15 novels have been decided over the last six years, and you have always pursued your goal of disassemblying the right of residence and abolishing housing security. Evidence of this is enough. I would like to remind you of the extradition procedure: With the introduction of the cost-replacement principle, access to justice for tenants became a matter of money. The cancellation of the cancellation protection for tenants of single and two-family houses or the release of temporary and chain lease contracts also led to a deterioration. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This list could be continued for a very long time. The legal position of the tenants has, in any case, been seriously deteriorated since 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Such a nonsense!]] Also at the 2006 residential law novel, the same picture appears again. Again, a piece of the tenant protection is sacrificed for the benefit of a few fewer real estate agents. You don't even have a skrupel to admit this anti-tangling thrust of this law too! You only need to read in the explanations. You too, Mrs. Justice Minister, took part in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” on 30. November of the previous year means that the landlords are protective circles. Who, for example, is surprised at the introduction of the duty to use non-useable apartments? The landlord is glad not to have the tenant. So far, it has been easy to apply for a reduction in interest rates in the case of non-useability of the apartment; now it is necessary to be told. The landlord has three months to meet these requirements, and only then can the tenant, if this has not happened, apply for a rental interest reduction. The purpose is to restrict rental interest-rate review rights. If the landlord picks up the rent and if the tenant doesn't wait for time, he just had bad luck. The tenants also had a bad time for temporary rental contracts. So far, it has been the case that a temporary lease contract, if it has not been terminated in time, has been transferred to an indefinite rental contract by the landlord, i.e. the deadline end has been forgotten and the rent continued. That's what you're gonna do now. The disposal is now expected to lead to the extension of the time limits to another three years. – The tenant's sorrow is the landlord's Freud'. Ladies and gentlemen! Responsible, forward looking and socially just housing policies look different. The real problems in the area of residential law remain completely unresolved. [[Abg. Großruck: We took the penthouses out of the rental right! They're not inside anymore!]] So you have done nothing at all at exorbitantly increased housing costs. Housing rents rose by 6.4 percent, inflation rate only by 2.5 percent, alone in one year! Guided rents have risen by almost 25 percent since 1994, from €3.66 to €4.57 per square meter. In addition, the high broker fees as well as the deposits are included. – By the way, this has also been massively criticized by your group colleague, Fuhrmann, in two issues. For you, this is not at all a reason to act. In any case, we have tabled proposals to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but they have been rejected by your majority. With this bill you have proven that you are unable to provide a balanced rental right. The sooner the elections come and make the way free, the better for the people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make another recommendation. [[Calls:]] In the assessment procedure, the OGH found that: However, not every call by a specialist writer or lobbyist should already be the reason for a change of law. A certain restraint would be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e7991	The next item is the speech by Mr Grossruck. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8012	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I notice two things. It's strange that not the housing speaker Bures is standing out here today and taking a position, but the woman cup, and as the second one, I notice that both of them are immersing the same untruths. I'm saying it the way it is. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That's why my appeal to everyone, also to the media and to the listeners: Please don't believe what you heard now! What's going on over the media is wrong, that's not true. That's absolutely wrong! [[Abg. Reheis: You will intervene again! You're used to intervening!]] I'll take the evidence. In 2002, we passed a housing property law that has now been evaluated. Supplements and corrections were necessary. Based on the experience gained, it was necessary to make minor changes there or there in order to eliminate injustices for tenants, but also – I emphasize – for landlords, because we also confess to property in Austria. If someone rents an object, it is his property, and he also has certain property rights on that object. You have to take note of that! Compared to what you demand in your templates, I think Korean, North Korean, or Belarusian rental law would be just too liberal; that is what you have to say. That would mean: back in the deepest socialism, in communist times. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many positive measures are included in this law. We have talked to experts for two years, for example with university professor Dr. Andreas Vonkilch; he is one of the best professionals in terms of housing and rental law. The common people, ladies and gentlemen, including the socialists, including the reds, welcome this change in the right to rent and say that these are reasonable measures. Talk to your people, too! The experts say the opposite of what you have here in mind again about inconsistencies and immeasurables. I would like to thank the experts in the Ministry of Justice who have worked, but I also thank Maria Fekter as chairman of the Justice Committee, who has succeeded in bringing this change in the right of home ownership to life together with the Law on non-profit-making today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Free – BZÖ]] What do you think, ladies and gentlemen? – We are certified by all sides: a good thing. For example, we want attic expansions and penthouses to fall out of the rent rate limit. That's fair! Now I'm wondering, Why is the SPÖ opposed that penthouses are removed, that attic expansions and uplifts fall out? – I have only one answer: That you might want to protect your penthouse owners via the rental right so that their penthouse apartments are even cheaper. This is the only conclusion I can draw from your resistance here. Maybe it is. And second, because you are mounting the temporary rental relationships, please to those who have not concerned themselves: There are temporary rental conditions for three years. If the landlord is now the day of the year 31. May overlooks, then this rental relationship is unlimited, then it is expropriated, then he can do nothing with his property, even if he has previously agreed with the tenant for three years – even then! What are we doing now? – First of all, for the benefit of the landlord, we have granted a period of three years so that in these three years this problem can be rehabilitated, but also for the tenant it is an advantage that he can say to his landlord: You know what? Let me have a few more weeks, let me have a couple more months, let me get in there for two more years until I find another object. – So there are no disadvantages, but only advantages. They will receive letters from all over Austria, in which people complain that they have been expropriated more or less because they have left tenants in their kindness for longer and no longer withdraw them, and even in court after applying the retention of property, which is very restrictive and very strict, no longer have a right to their property. This is unfair, ladies and gentlemen, but you say here, we want to worsen it! There is also no increase in rent. I quote from Statistics Austria: Residential costs 1999/2000 amount to 23.5% of the weighted household income, 2004/2005 22.3%. The cost of housing, the cost of renting, thus remained the same in relation to the incomes from 1999 to 2005. They're talking about blatant increases. What has become more expensive, we know: energy costs. But neither the landlords nor the landlords nor the tenants can pay for it, but that's what everyone who lives somewhere has to pay. Therefore, it will also be necessary to try to reduce housing costs, operating costs through thermal renovations. All in all, therefore, an excellent law, ladies and gentlemen! All the experts confirm that it is excellent – and it is also excellent because Mrs Bures and Mrs Becher are so opposed. That they are so opposed is a good sign that the law is good. Finally, I come to my four-liner, ladies and gentlemen, who also deals with the understanding of SPÖ in terms of rental law: Rent protected in the Penthouse and protect the eig’ne stock exchange. Yes, that's how we're left: Preaching water, drinking champagne.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8073	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8094	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck has really raised this point: The problem is increasing energy costs, is increasing heating costs, is increasing operating costs. Mr President, you have now clearly recognized this and, on the other hand, you reject our request, which wants to reduce precisely these cost increases, our request regarding the consideration of energy saving and climate protection measures in residential law! They rightly put their fingers in the wound, but at the same time allow the wound to grow. We need an efficiency program towards energy saving, thermal building renovation. There we are completely on one level, only: Do it! Create They also make provisions on living and working conditions, which are moving forward with rehabilitation measures. It is no longer a question of the promotion of housing, it is also a question of housing and rental rights, finally to take into account climate protection and the savings in operating costs and economic impulses for small and medium-sized enterprises and the economic impulse for our industry and the balance sheet aspect that we need less imports – a single win-win story, but this new housing law novel is completely passing by! Quite clear: It is based on classical areas, it is a continuation of classical housing, rental and housing rights, and unfortunately too little at the basic level of reform, namely to bring about a clearer, more transparent, uniform legislation on housing in total in Austria. The transparency is not substantially eliminated. There are new rules, and some are quite positive. However, some are very much to be criticized, and I should like to highlight this once again. An extension of these temporary rental conditions to the next three years certainly also leads to more rental nomadism. We reject that. Furthermore, the exception from the buildings from the rental right. Buildings are therefore being restored, just as attic constructions in the purely civil area are being released for rent. This is again a restriction on the scope of rental rights. We are opposed to the fact that homeowners are only informed of an attack in front of the house. They will continue to be informed in writing of any changes, as is now planned. So this is a deterioration. We are also in favour of the house management having to create more own accounts and there is no longer this other account rule. There's been a very big abuse in Salzburg. There tenants have been called for millions of amounts because this account arrangement is too unclear. And that is not improved by this law either. Although we have – as a positive aspect I have only made it sound briefly – now I am detailing it – I now have the obligation of the landlords to also put in place improvement measures. I was also invited to an event where a lot of landlords were present, and this section or scheme has taken very seriously, because they have to invest when it comes to health risks. Only: It is unclear in this law the definition. It is formulated: significant risks to health and to the inhabitants. If these are available, remedy must be provided. What is a “significant danger ”? For years we have had the classic example, especially in the old house area in Vienna, that there are lead pipes that bring drinking water into the individual apartments. These lead pipes have emissions, and often water, which you consume in the early days, is a little strained. Now there is the traditional method of letting the water run. – Well, we don’t have a water emergency in Austria, but still. If I drink water from lead pipes, it's a health hazard. Question: Is this a major health threat? And there's for me the vulnerability in this law, that's not clear. It is – and I have discussed it more often with my colleague, Mrs Fekter – unfortunately for years still a request from the Greens to you in the drawer, a request that this drinking water problem in connection with lead pipes should finally be dealt with legitimately and addressed in favour of the tenants. Now I have presented some of these criticisms. In this law, we would have had the opportunity to anchor improvements for the tenants and partly for the landlords, even with regard to broker fees and the deposits. Our requests went in this direction – but unfortunately they were not taken into account. Another old concern, which unfortunately is not dealt with by this new residential law, is the issue of indicative interest rates with the clarification and transparency of surcharges and discounts. We have often talked about this: We're right. De facto is the indicative interest rate. There are supplements and discounts according to law, only it is not precisely defined. It is not defined where to- and at which discount the rental height has to change by how much. That's transparency. I have therefore long proposed: If we define the supplements and deposits, we will finally make from this dead law a close-to-earth, an ant-friendly arrangement! But you have not taken that into account in your rental rights novel. That is why you will understand that, although I also see some positive aspects, the balance sheet remains negative to me, and we must therefore reject these novel housing rights. Perhaps I would like to add two or three comments of formal nature – I have already spoken to the appropriate gentleman in the judicial department –: You also need to change a little bit in the introduction. Since you have a wrong quote, there are some minors not correct because you have not included the Trade Change Act. This indicates that this rental right has been in discussion for so long that one has already lost the overview. We have been negotiating for at least a year and a half. I forget And again and again what has already been discussed and decided on, because, as has already been said, the horizon of decision-making extends so far. Finally, to the Energy ID template law. We cannot accept this for various reasons. One of them is – and that is why there is also an amendment on our part – that we miss the sanctions for non-compliance. There will therefore be no administrative penalty if there is no energy card, and that is why we cannot carry this law. Our consideration is that the execution is also so divided that partly for the implementation of a federal law – a federal law! – the individual federal states become responsible, and I do not think that is correct. Excuse me, but I do not find my amendment now. The colleague, Mr Stoisits, will then read him out, or I will speak again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8191	The next item is Mr Neudeck's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8213	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser has said that she has lost the overview of rental rights. This is, of course, possible in the case of such a comprehensive matter. It is always interesting to me, and I think it is very difficult to put the wishes you have in this rental right into a corresponding text legally. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the former President of Parliament, Fischer, our current President of the Federal Republic of Germany, has said for about eight or ten years once that he is concerned about the right to rent in such a way that it understands tenants and landlords, and he has also tried a very courageous approach to it. Unfortunately, this approach has not been successful, but not because fishermen did not want it, but because it is simply not possible to include a matter such as the housing law, the housing property law or the rental law in terms, so that everyone knows what the talk is about. I believe that this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the fundamental reasons why it is possible – and this is particularly important for every tenant – for every landlord to handle, so to speak, such divergent interpretations. And, of course, this also makes politics. It's a shame that my colleague Bures isn't here right now, because today's release to rent law... [[Abg. Big Truck: This is the first time you regret it!]] I would have liked to explain this to her; it is a bit difficult to do about the media, but otherwise, Mr Großruck, I do not regret that my colleague Bures is not here now. However, I would have liked to be with her, because she put something in the room in which it really does not belong. In any case, it is the case that a lot of policy is being made with the subject of rental law, and I have to say that for decades as a landlord and administrator, I have been familiar with the rental right... [[Abg. Oellinger: To do this, we are sitting in front of you, that we make politics!]] – Policy on the back of the tenants, colleague Ollinger, but not for the tenants! That you don't make politics for the landlords, I see it somehow, but that you don't make politics for the tenants, even less. You may be making politics for a few who are possessing, which is quite possible, because you will keep tenant protection higher than the protection of those who are looking for an apartment. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] – This is your policy, and we will not change it; we must stop it. In any case, I have been personally a landlord for decades, but also a broker, and I can say from this experience that I have always had the slightest problems with tenants because they thank God not always adhere to what is in there, but are quite reasonable arguments. [[Abg. Ollinger: Why do you change it when it's all right?]] We do this because certain adjustments are necessary, but unfortunately it is not possible to create a comprehensive rental right in such a way that it is user-friendly for landlords and tenants. In this context, there are enough formulations I could read to you now, but not from the year 2000, but from the time around 1914, out of an emergency regulation, a regulation that is still in force today. Mr Grossruck has already referred in detail to the points of content, so I would just like to draw up the following point now. It was a particular concern for us to have the Court of Auditors examine non-profit housing cooperatives. I am very surprised that neither SPÖ nor ÖVP have so far agreed to this desire. These non-profit associations are associations which have created a large part of the housing in Austria after the war, manage it and so to speak, sit on billions of euros of reserves, but which I do not think is useful in all cases. In this context, when reference is made to the revision organisation as well as to country control, it must also be said that it is absolutely necessary to create a uniform federal control. As that is, if something is done too late, we have seen that at the Causa BAWAG. Even with the housing cooperatives, it could be too late – and then it does nothing to say that there is anyway the revision association that everything has already been tested. – We have heard these “arguments” at BAWAG as well. I would therefore call on both SPÖ and ÖVP to think about it again – and not to give in to lobbyism in their own ranks, but to agree to a federal audit of non-profit associations or housing cooperatives by the Court of Auditors, especially, as has been said, there for years funding has been in place at billions and, moreover, through tax benefits, the creation of reserves.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8297	Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Gastinger has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8318	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion shows how controversially the rental law is always discussed. I also think that it is unlikely that the interests of the landlords on the one hand and the interests of the tenants will never succeed in bringing the interests of the landlords into such a balanced state that we are actually fully satisfied with both interests. I have given up this hope; that is what it is. With the 2006 residential law novel, we have tried to present as balanced a draft as possible. It contains important amendments, which have already been tabled by Mr Grossruck, but also by Mr Neudeck. We from the Federal Ministry of Justice have really tried to maintain a balance between consideration of tenants and landlord interests. In this context, I would like to mention the extension of the landlord's obligation to maintain and the elimination of significant risks to the health of the inhabitants of a house. We have also provided for an investment entitlement of the tenant, for example, also for the exchange of a defective heating thermal or a defective hot water boiler. We from the Federal Ministry of Justice have really tried to balance – and therefore, of course, we have also taken into account the interests of the landlords, something that, as I mean, is quite legitimate. What is particularly important to me in this regard is that this bill can be dealt with here in the National Council today, it has long looked as if it would no longer be the case during this legislative period. I should also like to draw attention to changes that concern the right of home ownership, to a necessary change in the WEC, and I am glad that this is being decided by the National Council today, so that many clarifications are also made in this area of law, a clarification which will also benefit the owners of housing. In this sense, I also thank you for your attention. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8357	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8379	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I will give you the fullest Right: There is a different view of this bill, and the different positions have been expressed in particular in the statements made by colleagues Neudeck and Großruck, with Mr Großruck here, I must say, delivered a fairy tale hour. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Col. Neudeck, on the other hand, sees the nonprofit building associations as his “principal enemies. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] – Mr Neudeck, I turn the whole thing around and ask: What does this new residential law novel in 2006 bring to the tenants, what about the owners of the apartment? Mr Neudeck, I now quote from an article from the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 25. April this year, in which it reads: “At the end nothing remained. ” And to the bankruptcy of Marterbauer: “Compensation ratio is against zero.” Mr Neudeck, we would have expected the government parties to submit legislative proposals here in order to ensure the rights of tenants and homeowners vis-à-vis the house administrations. [[Abg. Großruck: Everything is good! Read!]] The opposite, Mr Großruck, has, however, happened. Let's look at § 20 Property Act, where there is the possibility for the administration to choose between a different account and an own account. That, Mr Großruck, is the wrong way! Do you know what's necessary? – Two own accounts, one account for running costs and one account for the fund. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] – Mr Tancsits, you have not heard the problem, I am telling you this clearly now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The next scandal will come – and again the tenants and the owners will be the victims! [[Abg. Grandruck: Yes, but he will come to you! – Does BAWAG have apartments?]] Again to the bankruptcy of Marterbauer: Marterbauer was never checked because Peter Marterbauer was a member of ÖVP! And the next one was house administration BFG! I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, why you do not even follow the Chamber of Commerce, which requires a property liability insurance for this particular area. The colleagues from the Salzburg Chamber of Commerce know that this was a unanimous decision. Therefore: I miss such a request here, but after a discussion with the President of the Committee on Justice, I have not given up the hope that a regulation will be adopted in this legislative period. Mr Neudeck, just to add to the non-profit building associations, that is absolutely wrong. What is it like in the field of commercial managers? The big bankruptcys of recent years have happened in the administrative sector and, I say, in the field of industrial builders. Madam President of the Committee on Justice! In this House, we have unanimously adopted a request concerning a new regulation of the Contracting Parties Act. This system has not yet been implemented. I would just like to point out the initiatives of the Chambers of Workers, in particular the Chamber of Labour, which have shown the deficits in the construction contract area. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have expected that the cost development of living will be limited by the housing rights package. It would have been up to the legislator to take action. The tenants' rights would have been strengthened and not weakened. And the rights of all users, regardless of the legal status of the administrations, would have been enhanced. You didn't do that. Neither have they provided for more justice in the law of residence. We therefore reject these proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8465	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8486	Madam President. Minister! High house! This new residential law is a logical and good continuation of housing policy since 2000: more market on the one hand and more protection for social interests in all areas of housing on the other. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's not going together!]] Logically: Since 2000, we have stopped the black market and corruption in housing and in the search for a tenant. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's absurd!]] We have achieved greater flexibility through the temporary arrangements. That's a good thing. We have, of course, also reduced the cost of living according to the 25 percent discount, which you are always concealing, as Mr Großruck has statistically shown in his speech. At least in Vienna – you only need to walk through the streets with open eyes – the possibility of easier attic development has led to a boom, and this is extended to new buildings today. I am also going – you will be surprised – like one of my previous speakers Mrs Bures, because she can simply explain uniquely that it cannot be what may not be, that housing policy must simply be bad if it does not come from the SPÖ. I have missed only one in today’s milder list, the “wohnnomads, ” their favorite expression. They really left me today. These are said to have occurred in this country since 2000 and do not find a home. Because I could have helped her out. I found one: It's Elsner's name. In the “ZiB 2” he asked if he should live in the container in the future. There we would have a nomad for the comrade Bures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: the poor!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's what lights it: We make housing policy for the population of this country and not for the beans that live in the Penthouse. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] In this sense, on Monday, the Association Day of the Austrian Community Housing Economy in Villach – you know, the majority of the staff there are two-thirds more close to SPÖ – has decided unanimously, at least experts and experts: The Association Day notes with satisfaction that the Justice Committee decided on the 2006 novel housing law and therefore made significant improvements and clarifications for the non-profit housing industry and its customers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it!]] There is nothing to add to this, except that your own experts and experts will no longer follow in your disastrous housing policy, where everything that is done is only misrepresented. This is a progress for tenants, landlords and landlords. And we'll continue this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8583	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8605	Madam President. How did Mr Tancsits say now? One makes housing policy for those, and the other makes housing policy for the beans. [[Abg. Prince: For the Bones!]] – I can tell you who you are doing climate change policy for, not for people, but for homeowners. You're making climate policy for them! This is contrary to the truly commendable efforts that the Ministry of Justice has shown here. First of all, I would like Mrs Mag. Popp – I am still in the ministerial draft, because this is what I am talking about – also mention Dr. Stabentheiner and Mr. Dr. Hopf. The Ministry of Justice has taken seriously the task of making an energy ID template law and has also complied with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. You need to know that this whole thing is for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. In order to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, there are EU standards that are now being implemented in Austria. Among other things, this law is the outflow of these efforts. Now I say this much simplified so that it is understandable to all: There is an edition to be fulfilled. That sounds good. But stupidly, there's no penalty. I ask you: Who adheres to a requirement that, if he does not follow it, has no adverse consequences? - Hardly anyone! And not at all from the knowledge of what is happening in the so-called housing and rental scene. I do not want to slip into the animal language and speak of “mit sharks” and such things, but I can tell you: To say it in Eastern Austria, they will “be a pipe ” to you. If there is no penalty to present this energy card, why should this actually happen? There is, Mrs. Minister will turn to – and this would appeal to everyone – the so-called civil law path, one can sue. Please, Mrs. Minister – do not take this personally, but not for the courts personally – that is almost like the call to go to the “Salzamt” – this is “efficient” in this law. But the Ministry of Justice had a different intention, because it wanted what the Greens want in the amendment I am now going to read, Madam President. [[Quoted print version removed]] It has resulted that a few empires – I would say now – had objections on this matter, and that has quickly disappeared from the ministerial template. We would very much like this law in the sense of environmental and climate protection, which is not the last – whose task? – a task of the state is agreed. It is in this area to ensure effective laws. We would have liked to make our contribution if this provision had been found in the government template, as proposed in the ministerial draft. Unfortunately, this is not the case. That is why we reject this law unless you agree with our amendment. Then again, everything would be in order in the sense of achieving the Kyoto objective and environmental and climate protection in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8681	That of Mrs Magist. The amendment tabled by Stoisits is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8752	The next speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8773	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The European Parliament and the Council adopted the EU Directive on the overall energy efficiency of buildings, which was in December 2002 and which should be implemented until 4. A transitional period was granted until 2009. It should be noted here that it is impossible, as it were, to present such an energy ID for all existing objects and the objects currently under construction and to carry out this evaluation. The aim is to improve the overall energy efficiency of buildings, taking into account the external climatic and local conditions. That's quite positive. Minimum requirements must be laid down, that is all right. The energy card shall then be drawn up during the construction of buildings or when the sale is made, at the time of the rental of the same. He must not be older than ten years old, as we have heard. Well: The residential and tertiary sectors represent essentially 40 percent of the total energy consumption, so it is clear that an appropriate energy saving potential is given, a resource conservation is possible and, of course, climate protection can also be operated. Now I come to a part that has a few questions for me, which is what the implementation is about. The provisions of the Building Directive are technical regulations. That is to say, the creation of the energy card is an annex of building law, and building law, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, is a matter of land. But now it is true that the methods for calculating total energy efficiency, which is, as a result, country-related, is based on, I say, normal physical bases that are not changeable. I would like it to be very welcome and desirable if the countries would be able to achieve a uniform calculation mode. In this case, of course, the (i) to provide for the establishment of appropriate limits for countries. It is also taken into account in the case of the local circumstances in the case of a calculation similar to that of the physical structure. These enter with them, where they can also be different within a federal state. Let me compare this with a calculation of the heating load in Austria! This was the ÖNORM H 7500 until recently. With this, the necessary heating load of an object, a building was calculated. There is now a follow-up standard, a European standard that is the same for all of Austria. The local circumstances flow in there. That is, I would like the countries in connection with this energy card to agree on the same basis when calculating. However, I am also convinced that the energy ID will be subject to a certain market regime. A tenant will consider whether to hire an energy-efficient object or one with a high energy efficiency upon presentation of this energy card. The one – Mrs. Stoisits has raised her concerns – who does not present an energy card will also have a corresponding disadvantage. As far as the construction of new objects is concerned, it is basically a matter of course that the presentation of an energy card is carried out, because without this the calculations required in the course of the projecting have to be carried out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8824	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hoscher in word. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8846	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, it almost hurts me, but I have to right my colleague, Tancsits. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Go!]] This novel is really a consistent and logical continuation, namely a consistent and logical continuation of the housing policy of these government parties, because it is in reality nothing but an expression of the consistent, partial and persistent deterioration of the legal position of tenants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But that's been a little bit too bad!]] This also manifests, as we have heard, in the continuous expansion of temporary periods, as well as in the limitation of the possibilities for review of rental interest rates. I am still thinking back to the years of long housing rights negotiations, for example, with Member of the Commission, who really represented a very balanced position which was a completely different position from that of the ÖVP in these years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Since we discussed the social dimension in Europe this morning, I must say that the government is also actually practicing with this law exactly the opposite of what it is constantly claiming in Sunday and Parliament's speeches. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] It is unquestionably, when the economic dimension has already been addressed, that living is to be regarded as a meritorical good, that is, it is far from the laws of the market and the laws of competition of the market. In the long period of maturity, which is undoubtedly in this area, the market is now no longer able to set the necessary investment impulses on its own to meet the existing demand overhang efficiently and, above all, manageably. Even in the USA, therefore, state intervention in the housing sector is natural and on the agenda. In this context, the non-profit housing associations have a particularly stabilizing role to play, and of course also the WGG, which is also in the process of innovation today. In my opinion, it is significant that, in the run-up to this innovation, some representatives of the government parties – and we have heard it again today – were again launched by attacks on this system of non-profit housing. For the illustration only: The non-profit housing industry currently manages more than 750 000 homes in Austria, thus creating a socially necessary counterweight to speculation in other areas of the housing market. – If Mr Neudeck is so concerned about the behaviour and performance of non-profit-making housing providers, then probably from his own experience. In fact, in recent years there has been a huge scandal in a non-profit housing association called, I believe, “Free living”, located in Lower Austria and was the FPÖ apartment cooperative. The main focus for non-profit-making housing companies is on the construction of a durable housing area, as well as the management and administration under conditions of interest to tenants and who are oriented to their needs and not to the needs of profit maximisation. This also achieves a maximum level of safety and calculability, especially through the clearly regulated and cost-covering pricing and rental that we do not have in other industrial areas. The time limits are also the exception here. This security also contributes to the fact that the non-profit housing industry is subject to intensive control, because the Association’s revision carries out a performance review based on the cooperative revision law which goes far beyond the general audit system. [[Abg. Neudeck: Where?]] You should know that too, colleague Neudeck. The non-profit housing companies and the WGG are therefore two major pillars of the housing industry for our group. I think those who question these pillars, just as they have happened here today, will eventually only become lobbyists of unhindered housing speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8934	The next speaker was Mr Dr Sonnberger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e8956	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Social Democrats are currently turning the right of residence back a hundred years. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] If you only demand more indefinite contracts if you require temporary contracts to belong away, then you have not understood the system of a modern housing economy. We can be very proud of the non-profit housing industry, which provides excellent services, and we can also be proud of the private housing industry. This mixture, I believe, gives a good picture of the Austrian housing industry when you see it internationally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 2006 residential law novel is about changes to the MRG, WEG and WGG. This new residential property brings more legal certainty, clarifications, improvements for tenants, landlords and owners. If the Social Democrats already want to scare the tenants again, everything will get more expensive, and, and, then, I make an appeal to you and to Mayor Häupl: He has it in his hand, he can reduce the channel fees, he can reduce the water charges, he can even make some positive results in the operating cost range. In fact, operating costs have increased. It is certainly appropriate to consider how to better manage these costs in the future. And there you do not need to insure the tenants and say that everything will be more expensive in the area of rental law. With regard to building expansion: For example, the construction of the attic constitutes a participative asset as a positive contribution. That means no rent restrictions, but termination protection. I can see that the SPÖ has problems with this provision. The Penthouse drama is also reflected in its rental law policy, because what was shown here really has nothing to do with social responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] There is better protection of tenants by standardising the crime stock “significant health risks”, a new investment entitlement for the tenants for heating thermals or boilers. There is protection to ensure that caring apartments or senior residences will continue to be secured for this target group in the future. There are reliefs for the tenants when the termination is made, the judicial termination by tenants is absent. – So many, many positive examples, but you're defaming this new residential law novel. On the Day of Association. There are many social democrats in the common housing economy of Austria. [[Abg. Grossruck: The majority!]] The Association Day took note of the decision-making in the Justice Committee with satisfaction, as the new housing law introduced substantial improvements and clarifications for the housing industry and the customers. Please take note of this from your comrades if you do not believe it by the bourgeois government party! In this sense, I believe, we can be quite satisfied with this novel housing law. I think it brings improvements for the customers, for the citizens, but also for the owners and owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9010	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9032	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) More than 40 percent of the European Union's energy consumption is generated in the residential and tertiary sectors. It is therefore necessary, both in terms of energy costs and, above all, in terms of energy consumption, even in terms of environmental and climate protection, to cover the energy efficiency of buildings. We are not only implementing EU law by means of the bill for the compulsory submission of an energy ID in the case of the sale or rental of buildings, but we are also taking a step towards national compliance with Kyoto objectives, because This measure will lead to the rapid and extensive energy renovation of older buildings in the future and will ensure good overall energy efficiency in the construction of new buildings from the outset. Already, the energy ID in some federal states is the basis for the construction of housing and is given access to construction law. The so-called resource-saving handling of energy is in our all interest. Market economy competition between more energetically equipped buildings and those that need to improve energy efficiency through renovation helps the environment and improves the quality of life for our children. The obligation to identify the energy efficiency of a building shall enter into force no later than 1. January 2008 in force, for old objects there is still a deadline until 2009. At present, the technical requirements for the energy ID are still different from one country to another. There are, however, negotiations that have already been far-reaching that an Article 15a agreement will soon find a single solution here. Unnecessary energy consumption has no mesh. A uniform energy ID is necessary for the clear recording of the total energy consumption of all buildings. Nevertheless, today's decision-making is another important step towards improving energy efficiency by reducing environmental pollution. And by the way, necessary thermal renovation and new construction measures, positive impulses for employment and the economic and research location of Austria are being put in place. We are therefore doing not only a forward-looking service to climate protection, but also to the labour market as well as to the research and economic location of Austria! I would therefore like to agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9080	Mr Neudeck has now come to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9101	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just to correct: Both Mr Maier and Mr Hoscher have meant that our demand for examination of non-profit housing cooperatives is an attack on the housing cooperatives. Then you know more than I do, or as my colleagues, what must be hidden there. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: More than you know, we always know!]] For you must not assume that the desire for audit by the Court of Auditors means that you are hostile to these cooperatives. At least it is true that the housing cooperatives currently have €28.5 billion in total, that they move €1.6 billion in volume of construction in Austria each year, and that they are about 45 000 jobs. 60 percent of the apartments built after 1945 were built by these non-profit housing cooperatives. But you have an essential advantage: In addition to the billions of subsidies, they are, of course, exempt from all income taxes, so they can keep and increase their profits continuously in the company. And they are also entitled to rent the objects that have already been paid out by the tenants at an amount of €2.88 per m2, which allows the apartment users there to buy their properties more often. Therefore: The request for audit by the Court of Auditors has nothing to do with the fact that there is an enmity with the housing associations, but it should encourage them to use the money parked properly on the one hand and on the other hand to have an additional seal of quality vis-à-vis the users on the other. A audit of the Court of Auditors is not a punishment, but should confirm that the funds are well-informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9138	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the 2006 draft legislation on housing rights, including the title and receipt in 1530 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft Energy ID Template Act in 1531 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the part of the amendment concerned and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. The Members of Parliament, Dr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning § 5. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who stand for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1532 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1533 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1534 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1535 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1536 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1537 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1538 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1539 of the supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:02:28]] 29. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1356, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Water Law Act 1959 (Law on Water Law 2006) (1488 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9317	We're now on the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9351	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! This item on the agenda is again about water law. The water law is to be renewed again. We dealt very intensively with this novel in the Committee on Agriculture almost exactly one week ago on 16.5. It was an item on the agenda for an extensive agenda, but it was still discussed enough about this innovation. In this discussion in the Committee on Agriculture, all political groups disagreed with the government proposal and saw the need for change. [[Abg. Grill: Nothing at all!]] Mr President, if you say “nothing at all”, I quote literally from the Minutes of Parliament’s Correspondence: ‘Finally, the members of the Committee agreed to resolve the open questions in four-party talks until the vote in the plenary session.’ I hope you remember. [[Abg. Grill: Stop it! There's no logging at all!]] This is from the “parliamentary correspondence”! Fact: No such four-party talks have taken place. [[Abg. Grill: There's nothing logged in the committee!]] Mr President, you will not want to say that this debate is now the four-party talks! Mr President, you have received agreement from the coalition parties for this government template, subject to four-party talks. You didn't comply with this agreement. The logical consequence of this can therefore only be a referral request, which we will also make. We demand that the Committee once again deal with this government proposal. And that has good reasons. This government template contains extremely sluggish definitions, which give the lawyers scope, but not those who have to do so. It is a question of reversing responsibility for civil engineers, and it is also a question of the communities taking on additional costs as well as the subcontractors. Ladies and gentlemen! Water law has lost a lot of power in recent years, and this is also seen from the fact that it is no longer taken very seriously, not even by the Federal Forests. The Federal Forests sell over 800 hectares in the Tenn Mountains, where strategic water reserves according to Salzburg country and no strategic water reserves are available according to environmental and agricultural ministers. The woman's head of state has tried more often to solve this question – she has found no hearing. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: It is not capable!]] Water should no longer be important to the majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9431	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9454	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Grillitsch, will give an adequate opinion on the comments made by Mr Kummerer. Ladies and gentlemen, just ahead: The water is really a concern to us! Please take note of this, Mr Kummerer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Drinking water to a sufficient extent and in this quality, as we have in Austria, is an priceless treasure. We know that – and the whole world envys us because you always want that water. That's enough evidence, ladies and gentlemen. Take note of this! The implementation of the Water Framework Directive or the 2003 Water Law Novelty, as pointed out by the federal states, has meant a significant increase in the burden. There was therefore a working group which was occupied by all the political groups. I just call it "sword-like." Head of State Niessl, Deputy Head of State Rieder, Head of State Haider, Sausgruber, Pühringer. But also the municipal and municipal government were prominently represented here. This working group has been set up in a paper, which would be all to innovation in order to achieve simplifications here. The Minister of State has complied with this. However, there is one open point, and it is clearly pointed out in the cover of this law: It had been discussed the total exemption of lines in relation to highly controversial. This question should therefore be decided after the review of the Regulation which was addressed here. Ladies and gentlemen, on this note, there was clearly the opinion from the Styrian Water Supply Association that this would mean that “the operators of water pipes in the future would have to regulate and ensure all the services for the production, maintenance and maintenance of the facilities for each affected property by a contract of service”. – That would, I say quite clearly, be a disaster for the communities. The same note gives the country Upper Austria: Such a complete exemption, such a regulation is decisively rejected. Similarly, the Austrian Municipal Association, which clearly points out that "although the Federal and the Länder would not have any significant savings, there would be a disastrous increase in costs and difficulties for the municipalities. In Upper Austria alone, thousands of such individual contracts would have to be concluded each year, in accordance with the basic principles...’. These statements, I hope, are known to you. Or: The Upper Austrian Congregation “refers to such a complete exemption. ” I have already referred to the decisive rejection of the country of Upper Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I would also like to take into account the opinion of the Austrian Water and Waste Management Association, which also contains this reference. I'm 30 now. Year Mayor. Through my community, the large water supply system in the Wels region leads to about 130 000 inhabitants. I know what I am talking about and how simple such an authorisation could be, if previously sufficiently informed, discussed accordingly, and if corresponding compensations are also envisaged. If we were to go this way – as it was addressed – that I had a single contract with every property owner, then water supply would become impossible. I therefore urge you not to understand, Mr Federal Minister, debureaucratisation or slim state in such a way that federal governments and countries do tasks to the municipalities – but they do not, in most cases, provide additional resources for them – in order to then accuse the communities that they would not save because they do not achieve the objectives. I would make the following proposal: If, in turn, such a working group is used, a number of practitioners should be included in the communities, then reasonable proposals could be made. Mr Federal Minister, please take urgently into account the proposal of the Municipal Government, which is in the interest of the municipalities and ultimately also constitutes a cost-effective solution for water providers as well as for water providers – there are cooperative, private and public suppliers – so that the child is done rationally here and one does not pour out with the bath.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9547	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9568	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! This Wasserrechtsgesetznovelle operates under the title ‘Administrative simplification’. The contentious points have already been raised by Mr Auer. There was agreement that these questions were unexplained. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here under the title of ‘administrative simplification’ – and this was often unexplained in the reply; it has already been pointed out by Mr Kummerer – is culminating in a matter that we have already discussed in committee, Mr Federal Minister, you know: They have failed on the whole line, but really on the whole line in protecting the water, fails in the core points it is about! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Go, please!]] They have not given an appointment to the head of state Burgstaller, saying that it is a matter of protecting the water resources of the Tenn Mountains, but other colleagues of the House will go into it. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] But one thing you have personally initiated, and you are fully responsible: They have renegotiated the Austrian nitrate action programme with the Commission and have it approved or announced in February 2006. And you have used a derogation to allow more nitrogen to be produced in Austrian agriculture. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's one.]] Not such a fool! Don't say that! (!) [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I didn't say!]] You indicated it. This is not a nonsense, Mr. Federal Minister – you wanted to say that – because with an exception, you have allowed the stocking of cattle in Austria to be increased by 50 per cent, with pigs by 30 per cent. – And you're talking about water protection?- Oh, my God! You want to say this seriously here in this House?- Oh, my God! You are responsible for such a nitrate action programme as an environmental minister?- Oh, my God! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes!]] At the same time, the number of nitrate limits increases again. The latest results clearly show: The number of those measuring points whose values are above the threshold has increased again. The proportion of sources burdened with nitrates that do not have drinking water quality increases. Mr Federal Minister, this is the result of your policy! And you're still sharpening it. With this nitrate action programme, you are going, as it were, into the offensive, into the intensification of agriculture, and you will regret it bitterly, I tell you! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is also an opinion by the State of Upper Austria, which clearly states: There is not even a derogation for water protection and bathing areas or for groundwater rehabilitation areas. – These areas are also subject to the basic possibility of granting derogations. In addition, you have left the usual practice in this nitrate action programme: Nitrogen fertilizers have so far been combined with economic fertilizers, and now the two are re-injected, only the organic fertilisers are expected. What the farms are still using in the context of synthetic fertilizers is no longer regulated. I would like to remind you in the second part of my statement – and again a sign that you are not willing to make a real administrative simplification – of a letter from the head of state Pühringer and the Council of State in which they point out that there is now an opportunity to regulate § 38 in the legislation on water law, namely to implement flood protection measures that really prevent flood damage in the long term, and to take appropriate precautions. Here, the Land Oberösterreich argues that it has prohibited a general dedication as a construction land in the 30-year floods area and that it is now time to amend also the corresponding § 38 of the Water Law Act. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, that was a recommendation from the State of Upper Austria. I didn't read anything about it all over the novelle! I have already asked you questions on this subject in the Committee and I would have expected that at least the appropriate proposals will be made in the context of a review in plenary. – None of it, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, which is particularly painful: These new nitrogen values also apply to the new rural development programme. This is the draft for the years 2007 to 2013. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Green Pact or what?]] You said: “Green Pact” – this is a deep black, a black Pact! It is a shame for an environmental minister to present something like this with nitrogen values! With this, you drive the good ecological practice and the reputation of Austrian agriculture into the ruins! That's disastrous, what you're presenting here, and definitely a massive label flaw. Besides, it's not constitutional, you know. We are waiting for this rural development law to be adopted by this House. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9697	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9745	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9766	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, so I think it's better, we don't remember the discussion in committee. There were probably more people present than at the moment here, but to the discussion that was held at the time about the land sales of the Federal Forest, and to the polarization that came from Mrs. Rester-Hinterseer at the time, I would rather not remember your stories that the houses of Mr. Kaindl are guarded with cameras, that they are not coming there and that this is a sourry, what is happening and so on. – So I think it’s better, we don’t remember. [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer: I didn't say that! I wouldn't say that!]] Not literally! I think it's better, we don't remember. This discussion has already been very polarized in the Committee, it was – and I do not necessarily have to act as a defender of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs – such a thing of polemic and something of superfluous as nothing at all! We've heard that the Federal Forests aren't getting smaller, they're growing, they're expanding, they're a good company. If you can only cry and rush on social policy and on security policy in the morning, you should at least let it be in this case and come back to the material level. The 2006 Wasserrechtsgesetznovelle, which is now in the process of decision-making, has been discussed and discussed in the Committee. Mr Kummerer said it right, it was explained that there should be four-party talks. I have been asked for late but still the debate, and at least it has come to such an end that we will vote for it by our group, because we are convinced that the criticism from the various areas has been taken into account. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – I stand tight and straight, don't worry! It is therefore a good innovation because it offers improvements because it brings savings potential because the countries and communities can save money, and that is important and correct. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Where is a savings?]] I would like to add one point to Mr Auer's statement: It is really to be remembered in all savings potentials that not every administrative reform brings simplification, but very often only tasks are delegated down, at the country level, at the municipal level, and on any one remains the Black Peter. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Then why do you agree?]] In that case, it's not. This is then a critical matter because it will allow the communities to be diluted especially in rural areas and will no longer be able to bear the additional burden on them in the social field and in many other areas. I would like to support this appeal to the Federal Government: in future, Mr Grasser will look more closely at its financial compensatory negotiations, the negotiations on the financial keys and the like at the fact that especially the rural communities do not draw and remain the Black Peter through such reforms. In any case, we will agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9836	It has now become the Minister of State Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9857	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing today a new legislation on water law, which we have already discussed very intensively in the Committee. I would just like to briefly outline what the reasons for this reform have been. You know very well that the European Union's Water Framework Directive has for the first time managed something in Europe to think of water policy together, not nationally and regionally, but jointly Europeanally. And with this EU Water Framework Directive, we also need to make many changes in Austria. We have also done so with a number of water law novels with which we have responded to this key challenge of the EU Water Framework Directive. You also know very well that as a country of the European Union, we can show something about water policy in terms of water quality, water management, wastewater management, groundwater management, as only a few can do – I say how no other country in the European Union can do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even in the creation of the EU Water Framework Directive, we have been very careful to ensure that Austrian concerns are of central importance. It was also we who have taken care – especially in the last few days the debate on the question of water sales has arisen – that the principle of unanimity in water policy should continue to apply in Europe in the future. Without us, nothing can be changed in the water policy in Europe, even in the matter of sales and management, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What does this have to do with this novelle?]] I'm coming back to the novelle now. Parliamentary Pirklhuber has devoted a great deal of time to the nitrate action programme. He spoke negatively of the Green Pact, saying that Austria would be the final light. – Deputies! We're at the front. We have a modern water policy like no one else! Now comes back to the implementation of the Water Framework Directive: I was myself discussing how we discussed in the framework of administrative reform 2, representatives of the federal, state, local and local authorities: How can we minimize procedures in Austria in terms of efficiency? That is why the European Union's Water Framework Directive has also been implemented, which, admittedly, brings additional needs and tasks to the authorities, including in the countries. That's where we've seen where we can relieve ourselves. After many debates, the result was a discharge programme for the authorities as part of the implementation of a new law on water law, with which we streamlined administrative procedures. That was the goal and the requirement, and we do it today: We are streamlining administrative procedures without losing quality in water policy. That's the spagate. The points that we have at the table today with the novelle, namely the introduction of a display procedure for certain heat pumps, the withdrawal from the automatic authorisation requirement and the withdrawal of collision in certain plants at the discretion of the Authority, are a significant step for the authorities, without giving up or losing a little on the water issue, on the quality issue. I do not want to list point by point where we have followed this principle. However, I also note that we need to pay attention to the further issue of regulations and accompanying regulations that are not being imported again through the back door of the administration multiplying. That is why this law on water law, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear signal as part of the implementation of administrative reform 2 in the Federal Republic of Germany, countries, municipal and urban governments – I say this again: There will be a streamlining of the administrative procedures without losing quality, and it will therefore be taken into account that more complicated administrative procedures will not be imported through the back door. In this sense, I think, this is a novel that can be seen, which gives the right answers in terms of the efficiency of the public authorities and in terms of water quality. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about the nitrate?]] Mr Pirklhuber! I know you don't like to hear it, but I have to finish this evening's picture: The Green Pact, which you are always fighting, which surprises me, for Austria's rural area gives the accompanying answer for extensive agriculture in Austria, for groundwater protection and for an offensive in the field of quality of life in rural areas. Even if you don't believe this: The Green Pact works!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9931	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e9952	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am already surprised when I have heard Mr Scheuch's speech now and remember what he has given of himself in the committee and with which vehemence he has partly represented our positions there. It's remarkable how to scratch some curves. But that's the way it is. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we are discussing the 2006 Wasserrechtsgesetznelle, then we already have to hold, Federal Minister, which you have now very much praised the previous novels, that the Novelles 2003 and 2005 in reality were a huge coup and a huge flop. We have to say that quite honestly. The costs for the municipalities and the costs for the citizens have exploded – and now you have to pull the emergency brake. The countries and, above all, the municipalities and their representatives have rightly reported themselves and called for changes to the existing water law law. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen the media in recent weeks that you, Federal Minister, have been able to reach a great deal of agreement with the NGOs and with the countries. But if we look at this template a bit more precisely today, I have to tell you that the big throw has really failed you with this novel. This novel to the Water Law Act is totally inconcrutable and complicated. This was also the criticism that, partly also from the government groups, came into the committee. In fact, it is no longer badger, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. If I may ask you, Minister of State: For example, what are “plants that have no special meaning ”? Or what is understood by installations that do not “touch public interests to a greater extent ”? Or what is understood by installations that are not “disadvantaged by foreign rights ”? Let's say it again. That is why our massive criticism is no longer possible, Mr Federal Minister, inaccurate and incomprehensible. I am not at all surprised that the Committee has not even been able to convince the Members of the Government. I have also been surprised by Mr Auer's speech here today. Dear Jakob Auer, in the committee, you've been very hard on the table, I must say, today your criticism has already weakened a bit. It doesn't help at all if you ask your Federal Minister to fall almost to the ground, he won't do it anyway. It would be more important for you to support our referral request, because then we could really and fairly treat this Causa again in such a way that they all understand and that this novelle can also be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10010	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10032	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I think one thing is quite clear – the Federal Minister has already said it himself, and I can confirm it again: Austria is waterland number one in Europe! We have the best quality! And we have taken the greatest precautions and precautions to ensure that it remains the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the EIA will continue to follow this principle. I can deal specifically with some of the points of this amendment, which is also a point of reference, and I also, in general, start with administrative simplification: In fact, this is about increasing efficiency in order to accelerate procedures to increase the proximity to citizens et cetera. That is to say, we from the ÖVP are setting the standard again here. We can point to fifty reforms in this legislative period, through which we have actually brought about administrative simplification. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Say one! - It's enough!]] There is a special issue on which I would like to address briefly, which is the water protection or water protection areas. – In the areas of water protection, which are defined by the County Headquarters as the water law authority of the first instance by decision, there are also more and more measures that lead to restrictions in the management. This ranges from restrictions in fertilisation through plant protection products to pasture bans et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And the nitrogen values? What about the nitrogen values?]] Another example would also be the limitation of forest development. The farmers of our country, the farmers of Austria, have generally followed these measures and thus ensure that the quality of our water is absolutely high. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] What is new about this definition of the protected areas or already areas? – The fact that at the same time as the decision for the approval of the plant is being drawn up, a pre-arrangement should also be established. Here there is a certain margin – but that's also true, that's not a gay formulation. I know this myself from my practice, because with my technical office I have already planned some plant. And it is quite simply important from the outset to include the builders, the construction contractors and, if one has brought in the applications for the land-use determination, to still leave it open, whether it is granted at the same time or just then only after that. So a clear example of where there is no ‘foaminess’, but where this can be clarified even more precisely in the context of the procedure. I should like to sum up once again: This is about closer proximity to the public, it is also about more ecology – this is quite clear in the context of administrative simplification. And we from the ÖVP and this government are firmly convinced that we are still the guarantee for the protection of our white gold! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10100	The next item is Mrs Rester-Hintersieer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10121	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have to tell you that the Minister in the Committee has not done as much as he does now. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: How do you want to find out?]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You're cheating!]] He was there defending with a burning speech that, unlike claims in the regional media, he would have tried very well to contact Mrs. Burgstaller, but somehow he did not succeed. I don't know what happened. I have a very interesting story here, about land sales in the Tennengebirge. – This is a paper from the Austrian Federal Forests, a proposal to argue in public about the sale of water resources in the Tenn Mountains. The Federal Forests are here writing that the area of sale, to the extent of about 800 hectares, covers a small part of the Tenn Mountains and mainly consists of areas of deforestation, which are nature reserves, which are here called “soillands”. In the Federal Forest Act, the Federal Forests continue to write, everything has been carefully examined and verified. Now I have the question to you, Minister: Also in the Water Law Act? Has it been carefully checked? – The Ministry as the highest water law authority and the Minister as a heroic – self-representation – defenders of drinking water in Austria have the opportunity here to object to the statement of determination of the Salzburg state government. I assume that it has been examined exactly how this statement looks and whether one has to object here in the sense of Austrian water resources, so to speak, on its own initiative. Furthermore, the paper states that, if there is a complaint, the Federal Forests in the process, they say, will prove the completely correct and legal approach and face such threats – threats, namely, threats from a national government, that is, from a country's main woman – with serenity. – That sounds rather martial. What will it be like, Minister, if you have to object to the notice of determination of this authority or of this stock company, the Federal Forest, because this is about strategicly important water resources? – Don't be so brave, Minister! [[Call the ÖVP: “Listenless”! “Mutless”! – What is he all about today?]] I think it's high time you're here for the home country – in the sense of our request, which I'm allowed to read here: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mrs Colleague, that was quite different from the committee!]] You seem a little powerless, Mr Minister, but maybe it's still going on: [[Vivid ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] Maybe it's even before you decide that you're going to bring that over! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10221	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mrs Restes-Hinterseer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10301	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10322	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the amendment to the Water Law Act, but I cannot honestly follow this talk about the sale of land by the Austrian Federal Forest to a local entrepreneur. I say quite clearly and clearly that the water will not get worse if the property is owned by a private owner, and the water reserves will not be threatened either. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... the water is getting worse and worse! After the millions we've already put in there, it'd have to be very clean!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can honestly tell you that, according to my taste, the Austrian Federal Forests in the federal state of Salzburg have too much land ownership and not too little. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Is the Austrian Federal Forest mildly bad? – They're fine!]] I'd rather if the farmers were to own. I'm for private property! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then I also have to ask the question: Why distinguish between good property owners and bad property owners? On the one hand, there is this local businessman who wants to acquire 800 hectares in this context – and he is a “bad landowner”. And on the other hand, there are the nature lovers, a precursor organisation of SPÖ, who is proud owner of 244 hectares in this area – and these are suddenly “good owners”! [[Call the ÖVP:Ah?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Water law and fairness are valid for all property owners, and that will continue to be the case in the future. Therefore – I think – we do not need to talk about this subject anymore about fee. In the Water Law Act – which allows me to return to the subject – this innovation has succeeded in achieving some simplifications. It has already been mentioned by the Federal Minister that the Administrative Reform Commission has proposed some amendments. It will be possible that in future we will provide for an indication procedure for certain heat pumps. It will be possible for the collapse to occur in certain cases. It will be possible that the last review of the eradication procedures may occur in some cases. It will be possible that there will be more favourable practices in the area determination procedures: The purpose of the withdrawal authorisation is to strengthen the involvement of the landowners/throwers, to ensure timely and adequate preparation of protected areas in conjunction with a stronger connection. And there are some other areas. To sum up, I can say it's gonna be a good law. There is administrative simplification, de-bureaucratisation, a economical administration – and these are the characteristics of a good policy! I should like to thank Federal Minister Pröll and Chancellor Schüssel for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10397	Mrs Schönpass is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10419	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I can only thank you in part. The Federal Government wants to compensate for some of the significant additional costs – as you have mentioned – arising from the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive through administrative simplifications under this amendment. This may also be successful in detail areas. Overall, however, this novel is linked to legal uncertainty, which will lead to an increase in legal proceedings, thereby also making the savings targets obsolete. The proposal gives the impression that the consequences in practice were too little thought – a manco, which can be expensive and complicated especially for the municipalities, as well as for colleagues. Auer brought in. Therefore, only transfers of costs to those entitled to water, usually the municipalities, are rejected. A striking example here is the so-called exemption – as we have already heard – in the modification and extension of line networks. This is intended to be regulated by a regulation. As part of the discussions on administrative reform, the negative effects of such a scheme have already been pointed out. In this connection, I would also like to quote the municipal government, namely the final opinion of the Federal Government on this novelle. It says: ‘A tremendous administrative and cost-effective additional burden on the part of the municipalities would be the inevitable consequence.’ I wonder, What weight does the municipal government have in this Federal Government? In Upper Austria alone, several thousand a year would be – you hear right! – Negotiating service agreements and entering into basic books. I hope that this will be taken into account in the regulation. In the event of the expected opposition from the property owners, a hopeless undertaking – and I know what I am talking about! I therefore appeal to your reason, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, in particular, as a representative of the local authorities. [[Abg. Grillic: What?]] If you do not see the communities in such a procedural situation, you will comply with the right to administrative simplification, and agree to our referral request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10453	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Winkler. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10475	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I should like to point out, in connection with the subject of Federal Forests as employees of the Federal Forests, that: Of course, I also have a concern that the land balance is always a balanced one – not a question – not least in the sense of preserving the jobs there. As far as the specific case is concerned, however, I would like to stress that in the Supervisory Board of the Federal Forests there are also two members who have been sent by the Staff Office, and they have also taken a special look at this sale and have reviewed it. Therefore, consent to this sale of land has also been unanimous, and I can therefore also assume that the sale has also been verified in terms of water resources within the meaning of the law and, consequently, the consent has been given accordingly. In the water law law itself, I can predict that it was always the concern of the Federal Government to make appropriate simplifications in terms of government formalities or procedures in the interests of citizens through modern administrative structures. Also in the Water Law Act, important steps have already been taken several times in the past years to simplify the administration. In particular, I would like to point out that the use of water law in other administrative instruments such as the Waste Management Act, the Commercial Code, the EIA Act, and so on, created large synergies and thus greatly facilitated water law procedures. The aim of this amendment is to speed up and simplify procedures in the case of water-law permits, but at the same time to make procedures more transparent for citizens. In concrete terms, I would just like to focus on three aspects of the novel. I refer to the innovations in Sections 29 and 121: This will allow the Authority to refrain from making a modest review of the execution of the administrative orders for installations that have no particular significance for the public – and in practice it is quite definable. For these plants, therefore, the erasure procedure as well as the final examination procedure is simplified. Furthermore, the water law authorisation requirement for different types of heat pumps and for deep probes is subject to the notification procedure in accordance with § 114 Water law law. In contrast to the general scheme, which provides for a temporary authorisation for 15 years, the authorisation for deep probes is limited to 25 years, which also leads to a reduction in administration. In future, important procedural simplification will also be provided for the tenderers or the water-reducers. In future, they will be more involved in the process, while at the same time ensuring timely protection of water quality and quantity by making protection area orders in the future at the same time as the water-legislative authorisation of the water supply facility. One of our highest goods, the water, is thus still well protected! Finally, I would like to stress that this novel is not an intervention in any property rights. The aim, as already mentioned, is to ensure the rapid, efficient and unbureaucratic handling of water law and the best possible protection of our water. In this sense, I am also seeking the approval of this new water law novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10529	Mrs Walther is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10550	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are also excited when there are administrative simplifications. That is why we are not – I would also like to say this to my previous speaker – but it is about Austria having a great reputation to lose, namely as the water country in the heart of Europe, which really has a good quality. And if you take a closer look at the law, you will notice – Mr Schönpass has already carried it out – that we are also in danger of producing more effort with this new water law novel, for example in connection with the services, and, and, and. But in the end, I'm talking about saying, The water as good and the reputation Austria has in this context must be protected! That's why we also discussed – and you were not so averse at all – that we sit down again and discuss the question together: What do you really need to insist on? – The need to do something is clear to all of us. But you have to discuss it properly – and therefore our referral request. What's important to me is: The Rural Development Pact 2007 to 2013 contains something that I cannot entirely judge and where I am against: With respect to the rights of collection, two livestock units have gone up to 3.5 livestock units. - Why is that? That is also something that poses a threat to the water! To that end, I would like to call on all the parties here in Parliament to agree to our referral request and to put it together again. That we have to do something is clear to me. But don't break it over your knees! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10587	Next, Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10608	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, when you are talking about “lustless”... – No, you did not mean me anyway, but the Federal Minister, but I honestly say to you: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rest of interest.]] My impression of the Greens was today that you have become a lustless party, that you are really going back three steps and are developing from a Rules Party to an Ural Party – according to the motto: [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Get up on the trees and get in the caves! [[Ironic cheerfulness and oh-noise with the greens.]] This is the impression that the kind of politics you have left with me today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Modern ÖVP! We have always celebrated it. I'm breaking down!]] – Yes, you are the protagonist of an Ural Party, Mr Oillinger! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 99 percent of the population is supplied with spring and groundwater in Austria, and I think that is unique worldwide. We all know that we're sitting here. About 90 percent of the Austrian population are connected to public wastewater treatment plants. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You can't do anything for that either!]] - Yes, very well! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This happened without you!]] Well, the farmers can do something for it! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: They are not attached anyway!]] – Do you want to make the farmers dispute that they have managed this land and water in a sustainable way, Mr Gaßner? Then say it loud and clear here in this house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Water is an irreplaceable food, because every drop is precious. Water is also an essential cornerstone of energy policy. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, these novels have three essential innovations: Firstly, to maintain the environmental objectives: a good ecological and chemical state of surface waters and a good chemical state of groundwater; secondly, a holistic policy for river basins; and thirdly, also the Europeanisation of water policy. Since the federal states expected additional effort and additional costs to be incurred, the Committee on Administrative Reform II instructed the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management to examine together with the countries whether there were savings in the area of sovereignty management in this respect. The implementation of the 2006 Water Law Novelties is the result of negotiations with the countries and leads to preventive cost savings through debureaucratisation in administrative procedures. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Upper Austria is not considered!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Ask the Lower Austrians!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We will see today – and I would ask that we pay very close attention to it! – how serious we, the individual political groups, are to take it with the water, namely to participate in the vote when it comes to securing Austrian water law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I shall look at how many ladies and gentlemen will be present here in this room by the Socialists and the Greens! We will observe this very closely, because: People are only constantly insecured with “sales of water ” and the like, that is enough for people. We are those who give security to people in Austria – in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10772	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10794	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Grillitsch, do you know what people are tired of? [[Abg. Grill: Yes: You!]] That nitrate values do not decrease, that pesticides do not go back – and that, although millions have been inserted in the last few years! That's enough for people! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Federal Minister! You have noted in the Committee that the woman, the head of state in Salzburg, has not tried to contact you with regard to the squattering of these 800 hectares in the Tenne Mountains. – That is not true, Minister of State! You did not tell us the truth in the committee. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... never call!]] - She never called you? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Not me personally!]] .We have a protocol which shows exactly how often the woman of the country has called you, and it is clear that you have also cancelled dates, Minister of State! – That’s how it looks with this cooperation! [[Abg. Grossruck: Why didn't Mrs. Landes Captain lie? Why did he lie? Why doesn't Mrs. Landscaper lie?]] But now to the new water law and the much discussed administrative simplification. – No speaker of the government groups has explained to us where the administrative simplification really is! It consists exclusively of the fact that... [[Abg. Grill: weren't you in? Didn't you come?]] - No, no, I've been watching: You've read to us what each of us is. We've already read that by ourselves. We can read! None of your speakers has explained what the administrative reform is in. The only thing that happens is: They shift the work to the lower level, to the communities. The municipalities now have to enter into civil agreements in order to be able to put their lines in place. And these are not any pipes, but that is general, water and wastewater, ladies and gentlemen, dear. And now we have to fight with every single landowner. I know, of course, that the Minister will not make the regulation. But what if he does it? And the local government, Mr Minister, because you have spoken about the working group, has voted against it – well, the opinion has not only I, but you have it too, Mr Federal Minister! – that something will be changed in this legal situation. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] According to unconfirmed reports, there is also consensus among the federal states in this respect – with the exception of one. A federal state, that is Lower Austria, is supposed to defend itself against it, because they can save administrative officials. This is, please, no administrative reform! This is about water, which you always rejoice so much, it is about wastewater, and that belongs as treated as before, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! That is why it should be referred back. They only want to save themselves in the administrative reform of officials in the field of water law. Today we have a request from Mr Pirklhuber regarding flood damage, and I say something to you: The Authority has long been in a row with all these negotiations, which are most urgently necessary in connection with the flood! And now you're saying, No, we can go down the number of officials! On the contrary, we would have to drive them up so that we can finally establish, build our protective measures and then put in place exactly those measures that Mr Pirklhuber calls for in this request. But that's not what you're talking about. People are waiting for protection measures for some 20 years – see Machland in Upper Austria. For ten years, we've known that the March dams are broken. What happened? - Nothing! People suffer massively from these dangers! And it has long been a matter of talking about whether it is still opportune in water law to speak of a hundred years of flood. In the last three years, we have seen that the one hundred years does not actually mean a problem. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You should bring more honesty into this discussion, and you should finally stop burdening only the communities and make everything else slim. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But you should tell your comrades!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e10944	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Gässner, ladies and gentlemen, to refer the matter back to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Grill: (in the direction of SPÖ, on its lines pointing) That's not much! You don't take the water so seriously!]] We shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1356 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[Abg. Grillitsch: – on the ranks of ÖVP and the Freeman (BZÖ swissen) That's a nice number!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Pirklhuber, colleagues on effective prevention of flood damage. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rest-Hinterseer, colleagues and colleagues on the sale of strategic water resources in Salzburg's Tennengebirge by Austrian Federal Forest AG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[19:00:52]] 30. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1424, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Food Management Act 1997 (1489 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11037	We're going to 30. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. First of all, Mr Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11070	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! One word on the previous item on the agenda. Water is also a food! For me, it was already significant that no one speaker from ÖVP and FPÖ – BZÖ or the Federal Minister really responded to this allegation that the nitrate values were massively raised up. That's obviously a fact. This threatens food water. – This is a point I would like to make once again. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now to this food management law: It's a law for the emergency situation. We think it is time to think about it in principle. This is the criticism of this novel, in which it is only about defining the duration and extending the law. However, we believe it is necessary that food management should in principle face the challenge that exists today, in particular with regard to international challenges, with regard on the one hand to the quality of food, on the other hand to agricultural producer prices and also to consumer safety in the field of labelling and origin marking. It is true that the issues of food sovereignty cause a major debate worldwide, namely the question of reducing agricultural surpluses on the one hand and ensuring food security, regional supply on the other. In this context, we have tabled several proposals, which were partly discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. However – and this is what we massively criticize – they were postponed again. Our request for rural development has been postponed for the third time, Minister of State! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But I was not for the delay!]] That is your kind of policy, not even to evaluate the good proposals of the Greens in your proposals, let alone reject this request if you do not consider it, except Mr Scheuch, who has rejected it, because without delay he would at least be here in plenary and then we could discuss the new rural development programme for the period 2007 to 2013. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I can't refuse it!]] But once again on this issue of geographical designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed traditional specialities. That is where the European Union has presented a concept. It has been improved over the last few months and is an important aspect of the international debate at the WTO level, Mr Federal Minister, you know it! The European Union has a position that is forward-looking. There are also partnerships with developing countries. I call it Basmati rice. It is therefore also a question of protecting other countries, for other products. This is a level of discussion, where we are very likely to win partners as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request in this context. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are three very concrete demands aimed at strengthening regional food supply and at supporting producers, farmers, especially in the mountain area. I refer, for example, to the European Charter on high-quality food products from mountain areas – a project by the European Commission, carried out with 13 partners, which has recently been published, which contains many comments, suggestions, in order to also increasingly position the products of the mountain areas in the awareness of the public in the field of marketing, marketing and product development. In this direction, Mr Federal Minister, we should have implemented some central cornerstones in this food management law. This is the current challenge, and we would have expected it to be. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Therefore, we will not give this law our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11147	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11168	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber has just tabled a motion for a resolution which is not directly related to the Food Management Act. However, I would like to address his wishes, which are contained in this motion for a resolution. On the one hand, some of these demands have already been fulfilled, and on the other hand, it is our opinion, the opinion of the Federal Government, the opinion of the Farmers' Federation, that is, the opinion of the large peasantry. I would like to put a few things right here. If he wants a designation of origin to be introduced throughout Europe, I can tell you that we have already decided on such a label here in Parliament in March 2005 and the government has already taken a pioneering role. On the second point concerning taking measures to reduce milk surpluses, I can tell you that both the Austrian Farmers' Federation and the Federal Government have always been committed to maintaining quotas during this period. That was at the end of the price we had to pay for it. You know that very well, but you just say it again and again. And on the third point, on the external protection WTO negotiations. As you agree with our opinion, you are aware that the Federal Government, Federal Minister Pröll and, of course, the Farmers' Federation, have known exactly and always represented this, that there can simply be no complete liberalisation of agricultural markets. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What laws?]] That is why we are always determined to stop, in order to find reasonable solutions in the sense of international trade. There is no degree in the direction yet. We will, of course, continue to work in the future for measures in this direction. I would also like to comment on your claim that rural development has been too little debated. That's not true at all. We have often discussed this enough in the Committee on Agriculture, we have discussed it in the general public. They themselves were often involved in the various discussions organised by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture and also by the Presidential Conference. As has been said, there has been a broad basis for discussion. As regards the Food Management Act, from my point of view, from the point of view of the ÖVP, I can say that we naturally like to agree to this extension. There are constitutional considerations. This has so far been limited to five years and will now be decided by 2016, i.e. for another ten years. On the fact that we need this security in the event of crisis, we all agree, and of course we can all support it. In this sense, I thank the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Commend for this law has come about and reasonable solutions have been found. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11205	Mr Pirklhuber's motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11263	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main purpose of this legislative amendment is to ensure that the population is sufficiently fed with food in emergency situations; we want to be prepared. This is a legal basis, above all, for dealing with scarcity in water – very essential – for food, feed, seeds, plant and fertilisers, a law that has been growing historically, first on the basis of the experience gained in World War I. During the Second World War, due to the continuing deficiency of this law was maintained until after 1945, then gradually dismantled from 1948, although there were food cards in Austria until 1953. It was rationed the supply. This law is essentially about being prepared in emergency situations to provide assistance that is important to ensure the provision of the population. This law shall be brought into force by regulation. I hope very much and wish me in all our interest that it may never be activated, as this is only the case in emergency situations. On the basis of the amendment, we will give our consent to this deadline by 2016.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11312	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11335	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The contents of the Food Management Act have already been discussed in detail by my predecessor and my predecessors. I think there's a broad consensus. The refusal of the Greens' consent does not appear to be justified here. Perhaps you can still consider this and still ensure a broad consensus until decision-making is taken, because in reality that should be our concern. I would, however, like to dedicate the second part of my speech to another point, namely the agricultural debate in the Committee, because we have discussed very long and very intensive about rural development, around the much stressed Green Pact. I cannot share the opinion expressed earlier that this is such a great result, because – that was also discussed in the Committee – if we have at the Austrian level the 100 million € less in the area of public support for the Austrian farmers, Mr Minister, this is not a satisfactory result. Even if you say five more times that this is the case because of the axis distribution, I think it is important here to provide alternatives. We have seen in the last national conference that there is a broad consensus among national leaders to ensure co-financing. [[Abg. May. Molterer: at the expense of the farmers!]] – Mr Klubobmann, there is a broad consensus across all the parties involved, not at the expense of the farmers, but in favour of farmers. That should be important to us. There is a clear request. It has already been a little surprising to me that the Federal Minister has clearly said no to other means to cover these losses. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who should pay it?]] This is particularly surprising. I sat inside yesterday and read the last “Agrar Post. ” In this there is an interview with the Federal President Fritz Grillitsch, who says: We won't let the Green Pact make us ready! And in it he writes, among other things: The Federal Government with Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Minister for Agriculture Pröll has guaranteed its contribution. – That does not seem to be the case. And now it's going to be interesting: Of course, this approval applies only if the ÖVP continues to appoint the Federal Chancellor. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] So, Federal Minister, I really would like to ask you, the Green Pact, if it is so great for negotiations and if it was really made in the interests of farmers, not to make it dependent on whether the next Chancellor is Wolfgang Schüssel, but on the fact that there are sustainable safeguards for farmers, because that is why the Pact is here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] In view of this, I would like the ÖVP to make agricultural approvals for farmers not dependent on whether the Federal Chancellor comes from the ÖVP or not, but should generally give broad support and support, because every farmer and every farmer, whether by the ÖVP, by the SPÖ or by the BZÖ, is worth supporting them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11398	Mrs Schefermair is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11421	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, support for farmers is at risk if the threat of Partyobmann Gusenbauer becomes aware that agriculture is 50 percent. Today's agenda includes the Food Management Act. All my previous speakers did it the way I did. They mentioned it briefly, for this law, if you think in dimensions such as duty and choice, is truly a duty. If the law of 1997 expires at the end of this year, it is probably in our best interest to adopt this safeguard law, this instrument for an indefinite period of time, for it is a law that takes effect in the event of scarcity. There we are, as I mean, all for it. But what does food security mean, energy supply? – It is likely that this depends substantially on the conditions that a government gives to farmers. Regional products, Austrian fruit and vegetables, milk, cheese, great meat and sausage products, herbs, cereals, wine, very many juices and much more our rural families produce with high professional knowledge and much commitment. Many small, medium-sized and even more intensive enterprises depend on cooperation and cooperation. Today, partyobmann Gusenbauer has completely misrepresented the situation of the seasonal eggs in a certain way. We are faced with the situation that Austrian production is slowly at risk, as quota exhaustion means that seasonal kidneys are no longer available. The AMS cannot help us because there are no domestics who want to cooperate in this harvest work. Regional production, promotion of organic production, as healthy as possible, high-quality food demands the society from our farmers. The question is: Should our high-quality products rot and, instead, we get products from abroad, from all over the world, where we do not know which social and health aspects are produced? Yes, for me, this food security is not just an indefinite regulation, a legal instrument, but a real commitment to the production of Austrian food. We all want the taste of the home. Let's confess!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11459	Mr Preineder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11490	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address this issue that you have mentioned: It will already depend on who is making the next Federal Government, for it is known that we need co-financing in rural development, Mr Jarolim, Mr. Scheuch, and co-financing is ensured by a Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I am allowed to comment on food management law and food safety law, I believe that there are two types of legislation that can get our approval, because, I think, it is simply necessary not to miss out on food safety because it takes place at two levels: on the one hand, at the level of security of supply and on the other at the level of safety, quality and health. I think it's about production and also about domestic production. There are some decreases in production, particularly in the area of cattle production. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Why?]] I think it is crucial to give those who want to produce – Mr Pirklhuber – the opportunity to do so too! I am referring to your ideas regarding nitrate directive. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We do not want a decline in production, we want secure quality and we have a high standard in Austria. We have, in principle, clarified with the Federal Animal Protection Act, with the BSE safeguard measures that it is possible to bring safe food clearly marked on the market. I am also very grateful to our Federal Chancellor, who, in his speech on the situation of the nation, pointed out that the price and quality are directly related and that food can not still appear cheaper, even cheaper and even cheaper on the market. I think it is important that we also clearly distinguish ourselves in the field of food labelling, so that domestic food is also recognizable as such, because they offer safety and quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11536	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11560	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor spoke about the decision of the Food Management Act and the Food Safety Act. I'll put it right: We are voting today on the Food Management Act – we voted on the Food Safety Act yesterday.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11591	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1489 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is largely accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. Thus, the law is adopted with the two-thirds majority constitutionally required. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on fair, cost-effective agricultural prices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:23:38]] 31. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1437, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Childcare Act (1490, e.g.) 32. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 324/A (E) by Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues in the field of child care improvements (1491, B.C.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11676	We now come to points 31 and 32 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Magistrate. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11703	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide a small, long-needed repair of the childcare allowance. It is indeed an improvement for multi-child families, for families with multiple births, which is why we will, of course, also give our consent to this government template. In addition, you, ladies and gentlemen, will today reject a request from our group by the government parties, where there is a much greater need for reform in child care, where we call for and highlight some very concrete reform proposals. This is surprising because you have finally submitted at least a summary of the long promised evaluation report on childcare allowance, whose main results clearly show the need for reform on precisely those points raised in our request. This evaluation is therefore of particular interest because it has always been an excuse for years to delay important reform points in childcare money. It has always been said that we must wait until the evaluation report is available, and then we can discuss the need for reform on the basis of the results. That – that's what I think – we should actually do now! At the latest! The results are very interesting. It would be of great interest to get the whole study presented. After all, it is financed from public resources and, according to the information provided by the Federal Minister, has cost around €500 000 in the Committee. Mrs Bundesminister, I would also ask you here, from the speaker's desk, to make this study fully available in the house! The Institute of Family Research can make a beautiful publication of it at a later date. But most importantly, you have always pointed out that this will be the basis for political decisions, the call goes to you once again to really make the results available here in the house. What is the need for reform in our proposal, and how does the evaluation in your study look like on these points? – We say that flexible child care money is necessary. That confirms the study. The study says that the lack of this flexible design restricts the freedom of choice. That's one of the points the SPÖ always calls. We say: If you purchase shorter money, you should get more money per month and be able to tailor a model for your family situation. That is exactly what is confirmed in your report. The limit of trust is also criticized in the study as a barrier. This is the only point where you too, Mrs Bundesminister, see the need for reform. I also see him on this point, but in a different form than you. We are not imagining an irreplaceable removal of the limit of trust, because otherwise what happens in the study is also addressed: For the last half year, which is now usually lost because most men do not consume this half-year, the effect described in your study will occur as follows: The men participate in the financial contribution of the child care allowance. That's why it can't go! Therefore, we propose the possibility of choosing between a commitment limit and a time limit – that is to say, no amount of gain in the case of reduction of working time. The next point is termination protection. It is about the time when termination protection is currently shorter than that in which the child's allowance is available. In your study, legal uncertainty is discussed. This is one of the points where many women from the job are “raised” because the information about it often does not exist. This is also urgently repaired and changed! Her study also confirms that the longer exit due to the longer reference of the childcare allowance makes the return of women to work very difficult. We demand re-entry aid in our request. I think your study proves that these re-entry aid would be urgently needed. In order to expand the childcare facilities, your study also says that the lack of childcare facilities restricts the freedom of choice. This also confirms our analysis and the request in our request. Mrs Bundesminister, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we have been waiting a long time for this final report. The main results are available and confirm the need for reform. There's no more excuses. We expect a large reform package on childcare money in the next few days.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11768	Mrs Steibl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11791	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this government template to amend the Childcare Money Act, we have created a suspension of financial hardships for families with multiple births. The previous legal situation provides that, at a further birth after a multiple birth, the increased childcare allowance will change. This is now being changed positively, so to speak, with this government proposal. This means that, after a multiple birth, you can get up to 30 plus 6 months of child care allowance with a child again. Since my colleague Kuntzl has also addressed the evaluation study of the ÖIF, I think it is good if this study is presented in general, if this study is first considered in terms of content also by the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Getting to understand!]] I think that this study – what we all have here – shows that child care is an important measure for poverty reduction, especially during the period of family start-up. The limit of trust was also examined in this study. 25 per cent of women work while child care benefits, 17 per cent of them above the threshold. I would also like to say that the protection of termination is not so clearly addressed. I still don't understand. The protection of termination is, as it were, also easy to get back into work after 24 months. I even see this as positive because it creates an incentive to return to work and not to be at home for 30 months, which means also work. I would also like to say that we should also consider and negotiate in the next few days, in terms of flexible child care money, as well as the commitment limit. We're open there, but I think that it doesn't have to be broken over the knee, but that everything should be well prepared for the child's good. As a family spokesperson, it is also important for me personally not to lift the limit of merit immediately, because it is also about the child's well-being. The child’s well - being should be able to take care of both parents for a time within the family. We can negotiate flexibility, but not under pressure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11826	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e11847	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, I do not understand; I do not understand what you said. [[Abg. Steibl: Listen!]] They say that the study will be published if she has been taken into account by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's been understood!]] What do you want to tell us? First of all, I wonder: Why do you and not Mrs. Minister tell us? – Mrs Federal Minister, you should also have a rest of dignity, namely, to decide for yourself how you deal with the study and not to be prescribed by Mrs Steibl in any way when you considered the study in terms of content. [[Abg. Steibl: Because she hasn't spoken yet!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You know very well that the woman minister speaks after the Members have spoken!]] - Point one was that. Secondly, If you tell me, Mrs Steibl: it is only when she has been considered “contental...” that I suspect that something will be changed in substance too. I'm basically going to be suspicious. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: The bad guy thinks he is!]] But that is only once said, Mrs Steibl, because we have our experience with representatives of the government parties, I am sorry! [[Abg. Steibl: Because you don't think anything better!]] That was not spoken in your direction, Mrs Federal Minister, I would also like to be surprised by something positive. However, there are relevant experiences as to how such studies have been tried to keep the public free of such studies. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't understand anything yet, Mrs Steibl. We are now discussing the results so far. Now I say, if you read what the Federal Minister in the Family Committee has distributed to us, then one thing is clear – and Mrs Kuntzl has also pointed out – that the child care allowance is not in conformity with a declared objective of the Federal Minister of Education or the resort. The objective was to facilitate the start-up of the profession, to increase the compatibility of work and family by providing child care. The study concludes the opposite, and that is the case. We would have to discuss this, Mrs Steibl, because if there was a goal and if the study – or this caring part of a study that we were to find and be considered by us – says that it was not achieved and that there are problems, then you can't go here and pretend to be nothing. I am sorry, Mrs Steibl, for this approach. I also know and remember statements from you, as you were much more skeptical. This was also noted once: You too were much more skeptical. [[Abg. Steibl: But not against child care, please!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] But I always understand the FPÖ in this approach, Mrs Steibl; at that time she just called FPÖ, and one did not have to ask who was meant by it. In 1999, in Carinthia, when Mr. Landesführer Haider introduced the children's money, the children's check in Carinthia has been introduced as a precursor model... – Please let me talk about it, you were already on it anyway. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a matter of country! That has nothing to do with the covenant!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a matter of land and has nothing to do with the covenant.]] When Haider introduced it, there was an advertising spot, and this commercial said: “Feistritz tagesmutterfrei” and “Deutsch Griffen Tagesmutterfrei” (German Griffen Tagesmutterfrei), which was presented as a “success of child money”! Until the whole public in Carinthia – and not only in Carinthia – has excited and said: After “clean”, we do not understand this under the child allowance or child care allowance, that then there are no more care facilities! – That’s exactly what was intentioned! As a success it was shown that in these two communities in which it was introduced, there was no longer even day-time mothers or day-parents – not to mention kindergartens or other care facilities. [[Abg. Bucher: Thank you, Jörg!]] In addition, I also remember what this national captain mentioned, also in 1999, said about why he wanted to have the child care allowance: Because then the labour market is cleared by women, because then the labour market is free for men again, then there is more space on the labour market. [[Abg. Bucher: What is that stupidity?]] – No, not so stupid! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I can give you the quotes, that's what your brother said! It's true, he explained it publicly, not in secret. Just these two things, this commercial spot “Feistritz tagesmutterfrei” and “Deutsche Griffen Tagesmutterfrei” as well as the statement by Mr. Haider in 1999: [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What kind of a division is this?]] We need that, so that the labour market is cleared!, the actual intention illustrates at least one part of those who have called so diligently after this form of childcare allowance. And now a result comes out... [[Abg. Steibl: Mr. Oillinger! That's such a premise!]] What's an understatement? [[Abg. Steibl: This is a state matter of Carinthia and has nothing to do with the covenant!]] That's exactly what it was! It was just like the babysitting allowance you made afterwards. [[Abg. Steibl: The ÖVP was...!]] There's no difference. [[Abg. Steibl: They make it really easy!]] And what's the assumption? What Mr Landes Captain said and what the FPÖ has said? – Yes, this is an injunction, an evil one; but it does not come from me, dear Mrs Steibl! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now the study notes: yes, it is so, the women have more difficulties; and you probably also say that this is a malignant statement, which Ollinger and Mrs Kuntzl read out of the study. And so that they do not continue to run the risk of reading such evil precepts from the immediate parts of this study, we do not present the study at all, but it will be reworked in terms of content, and then we will show it. Mrs Federal Minister, if you have nothing to hide, then explain to us why you are not presenting this study here and now, today or tomorrow. – This is just a note. By the way: Of course, we agree with the request for improvements for multiple births, although it represents a relatively modest change.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12127	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12225	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Oellinger! Mrs Kuntzl! I think it's really just one thing that didn't achieve the goal: These are you, you of the Greens and the SPÖ, because you do not manage to make the childcare money really bad! They try it with all their violence, but Unfortunately, you can't do it, and that's why you're constantly trying to explain any of the settings to us. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals – BZÖ.]] The evaluation report and further studies characterise the childcare allowance. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you say about the truth?]] That's what I'm going to talk about, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! – The childcare allowance characterizes an extension, the freedom of choice and, most importantly, the satisfaction of all those who receive child care. The extension is a very important aspect, because during the time of old karenz money, there were some women or men who had no chance of getting karenz money, namely, those who were not employed. The success also shows: In 2000, there were 70,000 child care workers, and in 2006 there were 170,000, because housewives, students, students, pupils and farmers now have the opportunity to receive child care benefits. Mrs Kuntzl, I think that it is a success that all women have the opportunity to get childcare money, and not just a selected part that you have characterized at the time. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: This is the only thing to highlight positively!]] Yeah, you didn't tell me that, but everything's negative with you. – So already the first positive point you now also admit! The second is freedom of choice, a top principle which has a very important weight in our family policy. During the reference of the old karenz money there was a professional ban at all. You're saying women don't have a chance to get into the profession – but it didn't matter at the time! At the time they were not allowed to work at all, they had a de facto ban on careers, they were able to handle only minor jobs. [[Abg. Walch: Yes, that was it!]] Now there is the possibility to use a limit of merit, that you have a foot in your job and then also have reliefs when you get back in. This very fact also gives us the right. When we take a very close look at these studies, it turns out that after three years more than 68.5 percent of women are back in work. That is what we are in the top European field! And then you say the women have a problem getting into the profession afterwards?- Oh, my God! – If you look at the specific figures, you will also give us the right to make use of this limit for more than a quarter of women and that after child care, almost two thirds of women will return to the profession and also have the opportunity and the opportunity to enter. A very important aspect of the childcare allowance, supported by an OGM study, is that more than 75 percent of the parents are satisfied with the reference of the child care allowance. You can't deny that either. This simply gives us the assurance that we are on the right track with this model. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Party – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is important and necessary that the child care allowance is further developed according to the needs of the parents. A central field of action is also to promote the compatibility of family and profession – and therefore we demand the abolition of the limit of merit – but at the same time to force Fatherhood participation even more so that the compatibility of family and profession does not fully burden the shoulders of women. Ladies and gentlemen! That is, we will work hard in the future. The Minister of Family Ursula Haubner is a guarantee that the successful model to support families will be continued, expanded and developed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12312	Mrs Binder-Maier spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Achleitner, it is not about making the child allowance bad. [[Interlocutory calls at the ÖVP as well as representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It is about whether the child allowance, the childcare allowance is a support for women in the compatibility of work and family. [[Abg. Steibl: Now you have the report...!]] – I will come back to the report. Secondly, Mrs Achleitner: Not a “chosen” circle of women or people used to refer to the karenz money. [[Abg. Walch: Sure!]] It was the women in employment, and it was a substitute income for out-of-work benefits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One advantage is, of course, that all women now receive child benefits. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] That can be an advantage. But the study proves – not so excited, ladies and gentlemen! – that there are shortcomings, and that is what we are talking about. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We want to make changes, and we invite you to do so; we have submitted our requests. I regret that you do not agree with this because it is about a better reconciliation of work and family for mothers and fathers. Mrs Achleitner, perhaps to clean up with a last March: There was part-time work, and women were also able to work in addition to employment. You always tell the same thing, and we tell you the opposite again and again. [[Abg. Rossmann:... that's all right now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The short report points out the problems. [[Interlocutory calls for representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The criticisms are based on the evaluation of child care, and they have already been mentioned by my colleague. The childcare allowance does not mean that women have more freedom of choice, that they have more flexibility or that it has an influence on the realization of the child's desire. – Mrs Achleitner, black on white! Perhaps we have Mrs. Bunter, perhaps the criticism points will be more relevant to your interests, but you can't take away the disadvantages. In this sense, we will agree with the amendments you have proposed. And our request – you'll be sure! – we will bring in again because it is about improving women in our country. [[Abg. Steibl: You will bring him in because the choice...!]] - Don't yell at it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12444	Mrs Stadler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12480	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present government template contains two improvements. However, I would first like to respond to the request made by my colleagues from the SPÖ. Mrs Binder, Mrs Kuntzl, you come here and say: A law that is in itself good and that has brought improvements with it is in need of reform. Somewhere it is strange that you have already learned the zigzag course of your chairman very well. I can just remind you of the law You wanted to because you didn't agree! I wonder where your tailoring was in your model; it's not that long ago. Your model provided that there were fewer people involved – now you have put it out as an advantage that there was more – there was no freedom of choice, there was a de facto ban on careers, there was no right to part-time. That was the starting point. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: That's just not true! They say the untruth against better knowledge! It's not true!]] This Federal Government has decided to grant child care in this form, and it has contributed to the fact that there are more people involved, that there is more freedom of choice, that there is a discussion of the compatibility of family and work at all, and that there is an improvement and more money over a longer period of time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Dear colleague Oellinger, it is called child care money, and we are quite different: You and colleagues from SPÖ stress “money” – we place the emphasis on “children” and “care”. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This study, which you have so strongly mentioned, says that the majority of those involved are satisfied with it, and it also says that three-quarters of young parents want to care for their grandchild as possible. You should also mention that. [[Abg. Ollinger: Then you already know more about the study than I do!]] And you should put the emphasis on “children ” and“ care ” to the children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My time is over. [[Call the ÖVP:The speaking time!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Only the speaking time!]] The speaking time is over, yes, thank you! I'll finish. You should just admit that child care money is one of the biggest family-political achievements, that you just didn't succeed and that we did it – for the benefit of people, for the benefit of young families and our children! Therefore, I simply ask you to remember, despite your choice, that we are responsible for the future of the children and that we should think of them – and not just the money.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12578	Mrs Schönpass is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12609	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The compatibility of work and family has not yet been achieved in Austria, we all know that. Real compatibility of work and family means for us that the child care allowance must be as flexible as the mothers and fathers must be in their professional life. If a parent wants to stay with the child less than the entire period of reference and wants to return to the profession earlier, then the child's money should be able to adapt to these requirements and be paid shorter but higher accordingly. For women in particular, such flexibilization would facilitate the return to work. In the meantime, several studies have shown that child care benefits in the current form are more likely to prevent women from returning to work after birth. Even for men, it has not become easier to go to Karenz. Not only does child money in the current form give little incentive to it, but also the pressure on the workplace has increased enormously. If someone fears his job anyway, he will think very well about whether he can afford to go to Karenz at all. So we need not only more incentives for fathers to take on part in childcare, but also a job market in which the promises of family policy can be met. Your labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, is not suitable for this! Another very important point – not you, Mr Neudeck – is extra-family childcare. [[Abg. Walch: Who wrote the speech?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: No, it wasn't me!]] [[Further call-ins]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier:... the call! He just didn't fit with the colleague Schönpass!]] The SPÖ requirement for a right to a child care centre for children of single parents from the first year of life includes, of course, the demands for adequate financial resources for the communities, because without additional resources, the communities cannot maintain or even expand their childcare offers. [[Abg. Steibl: Do you have full day care in your community?]] Yes. If the Federal Government wants to create real compatibility between work and family, it must also better support those responsible for the care places. These are the municipalities in Austria in particular. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I call on you to finally create an effective framework for real reconciliation between family and work in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12695	Mrs Mittermüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Despite constant criticism from the opposition side, nothing can be changed: The evaluation of the childcare allowance shows the successful family policy of this Federal Government and our Federal Minister Ursula Haubner. I would also like to refer to the total family benefits of 2005 that were paid €5.7 billion, of which €2.9 billion alone and €1.4 billion in child care money. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Party – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] The childcare allowance finally reached that family work should be recognized as a service and paid off. Contrary to the statements made by the opposition parties by the previous speakers, the data from the evaluation study show very good results. There is a very, very high level of satisfaction among the child care workers: With 75 percent and two thirds you can really be very satisfied. The decline in birth was also stopped. We are now approaching the limit of 80,000 births a year; in 2001, we were already on our way to 70,000 births a year. It was mentioned by Mr Stadler earlier that the childcare allowance and the evaluation report also clearly show that the parents' desire for the care of their young children is being met and that this has also been noted very positively. The reduction of the risk of poverty is another positive point on child care. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals – BZÖ.]] 541 € this Federal Government is worth a toddler – child care allowance including family allowance. On the accusation of Mr. Öllinger that mothers are being forced out of work, it should be said that 78 percent of women with children up to the age of 15. In the United Kingdom, the number of persons employed in employment is higher than This is, after all, a very, very high level of employment. Women are also very much in favour of part-time employment. Only 9 percent are involuntarily employed part-time; 91 percent want this part-time employment to have family-friendly employment opportunities. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberal Party – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] With today's decision to pay the multi-ling supplement of € 218 per child to parents even after the birth of another child, we continue a step further in the success story of the child care allowance, for example, parents of Gewillingen receive €1,045 per month in state family benefits at the time of the birth of another child. The childcare allowance is and remains a success story – thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12779	Mrs Pepper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12801	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The summary of the evaluation of the child care allowance for us clearly shows – and I will, as far as my time allows, respond to some results – that urgent action is needed to reform. [[Abg. Prince: Is the study...!]] Instead of your often quoted freedom of choice, in many cases young mothers and fathers are forced to choose for or against work during and after the baby break. Ladies and gentlemen! Mothers want both: Profession and child. But well-trained women are taken by the existing form of child care money career opportunities and often even the opportunities for the future. Mrs. Federal Minister, I can't imagine you will! The fact is that there are different offers of child education facilities in our country. It must not make any difference whether you live in the city or in the countryside when it comes to child rearing! Every child in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has the right to a child training place. Our child care law – we call it “Clever Kids” program – fulfils this legal requirement. This will increase the opportunities of young women to get back into work in good time. [[Abg. Steibl: Then you should not demand the cancellation protection for 30 months! You're contradicting each other!]] But this also increases the opportunities, Mrs Colleague, for our children to receive very little education, which is of particular importance for their life course. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't have time, I can't answer you. Please let me finish speaking, and please listen to our suggestions! Ladies and gentlemen! Another step would also be the introduction of the “Papa-Month”. Here, too, the fathers, especially the young fathers, should be given the opportunity to take part in childcare one month after birth and not to lose his wages or jobs. [[Abg. Steibl: Is a father with 40...?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Consider our proposals! Nevertheless, we will give our consent to the mini-improvements in the Childcare Money Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12870	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e12891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Parliament will unanimously agree to further improvement of the multi-child allowance, a multi-child supplement that we introduced in 2004, which has been a great wish of the parents, and which – especially if we compare it with the former care allowance, in which there has not been a 50 percent supplement, but a maximum of € 29 if someone has had twins or drillings – is a significant improvement. This improvement is one of many that we have made during the term of the childcare allowance within the last four years. I would like to point out that in 2004 we increased the amount of the commitment limit on the grant. I would like to point out that we have introduced a rigidity regulation with up to 15 percent overrun of the childcare allowance, that the interest in the childcare allowance is missing because it is mainly families who need the financial resources in the first phase of childcare. We have made a follow-up to the parent-child-pass examinations, and we have, above all, improved the affidavit rule – which is to be decided today – for emergency workers, or we will improve it. I therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that the childcare allowance we introduced in 2002 as a universal family benefit is an essential contribution to the support of families at a time when they need special support. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Childcare is not a substitute for income, not a replacement for wages, but the childcare allowance is an important family benefit among many in Austrian family policy, one among many. I think each of you here in plenary knows how high the family benefits are in Austria, starting from the family allowance via the multi-children's allowance, about services such as free school books, free school trips and the like. So the childcare allowance is a measure next to many others. I would also like to point out once again one which is constantly forgotten or consciously ignored in the discussion that, with the introduction of the child's allowance, a paradigm change has also taken place in family policy, because, especially at this time, we recognize family benefits, not only through money but also through periods of retirement allowance, which have been replacement periods and no contribution periods until 2002, by reckoning that we have introduced family hospice car in this context, and much more. So to families the benefits they need and which are also necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now to the evaluation, which is also being discussed again and again. I repeat what I have already said in committee. I would ask you to remain correct in the objectives of the evaluation and not always to talk about one goal. I have very comprehensively explained to you in the Committee that various objectives have been included in the evaluation. The aim was to check whether the freedom of choice and the compatibility of work and family has improved. Freedom of choice has completely improved and the compatibility of work and family. About a quarter of the women involved are employed during this period. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A second objective was to review the increase in father participation. Fatherhood participation has increased dramatically compared to 1999. [[Abg. Oils: Here you go!]] You can now say that's too little. I am right to say that we can certainly do more on this point, but the father's participation has increased considerably by providing these six months. One goal was also to test the satisfaction of the parents. Satisfaction is a very broad and very positive one. Between 70 and 80 percent of parents express their satisfaction. Another goal was to review poverty prevention. How can child care benefit contribute to poverty prevention? Here, too, the figures clearly indicate that families do not fall below the poverty threshold, especially in the low incomes sector. [[Abg. Ollinger: How is it with the single parents?]] Another goal was to determine how child care benefits affect birth behavior. It's quite clear here, and I'm not saying anything new, that child care money alone certainly doesn't make a birth increase. There are several measures that need to be taken. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: All this is completely different in the study!]] I only call you the objectives that have been questioned, the objectives and the results. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Watch out and listen more closely!]] One last thing: What impulses have arisen for re-entry? Is there any positive impulses? – I would like to stress this once again: So these were the objectives in the evaluation of childcare allowance. It is therefore an important result that we can talk about a high level of parental satisfaction with the duration and height of the child care allowance. With this family benefit, we have taken the right path. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say once again what I said in the Committee on Study. I am against it if it is claimed that the content of this section is to be improved. [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly! It's a premise!]] The Ministry has accompanied this evaluation in the last four years with funding, which has been provided for the evaluation of these objectives. You know that various partial results have been presented in recent years. This study, which is owned by the ÖIF, like any other study that is supported by our home, has been made available to you by the ÖIF in this summary. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But that's where you negotiated a bad contract!]] The ÖIF has reserved itself to publish and present all other important content and objectives scientifically in the coming months. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out one thing because the Carinthian head of state was quoted here as saying that the money for children is supposed to “remove” the labour market – I do not know how the colleague Ollinger said – or something similar. A terrible word! [[Abg. Oils: That's exactly what the term was!]] I don't know what messages You know from the head of state, I only know that he has clearly said that the money for children brings a huge improvement to the situation of women, and that is our idea, because this will enable the way back into the profession. That's what's available to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you're talking about day-mother-free, I don't know that there's a day-mother-free place in Carinthia. What is known to me is that only a few weeks ago the government in Carinthia decided with the votes of the ÖVP and the BZÖ the project of mobile mother care. [[Deputies Steibl and Mag. Controller: Very good!]] Here, Carinthia is leading and again a model for all other federal states in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That is why I really ask you to take note of the fact that there is something here that most of the parents are satisfied with. We will further develop this family benefit and, if necessary, further improve it. However, I will stick to this form of family policy, a policy which sets out different measures to ensure that, on the one hand, work and family are compatible, on the other hand, the benefits provided at home for families are paid and appreciated accordingly. – In this sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13056	Mrs Lentsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13101	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Childcare money for all is a real success story. This is a fact that should now also be aware of those who voted against it. 75 percent of women are satisfied with this childcare allowance. The Federal Minister has already done this before. 170 000 women currently receive child care benefits in Austria. This is more than twice as many as before 2000. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Thus, it can be argued with fug and right that this child care allowance is a milestone in family policy, and we are changing the law on child care because we want to make it even better and even more perfect. With this change, the increased child allowance for multiple births is at least paid out the full period. We have thus taken another important step, because we want to make it easier for women from the EIA. We of the ÖVP are also convinced that work in the family is very important, and we of the ÖVP are also convinced that the children have the right to both parents. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Kuntzl, we will not agree to your request because we believe that mothers should stay with their children for some time. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, all of Europe knows that we have too few children, yes we have not only too few children, we lack a whole generation of parents in the meantime. This is a drama that should also be aware of you. Of course, politics can only create framework conditions to make it easier for families. In view of this development, colleagues from the SPÖ and the Greens should finally rethink. There young mothers fight, and you then come permanently with the feminism cult from the 1970s. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you!]] If I just think of your statement, we wanted to push the women back to the stove: No one's going to lose you any more. They should really think about it, and we will continue to help all those who want to bring children to the world and start families. And this law will help, Mr. Ollinger!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13149	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13171	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are now discussing an amendment to the Childcare Money Act – it has already been pointed out – which we agree with as a Social Democratic Group, as it also ensures, inter alia, that the supplement is maintained in the case of multiple births even if the child is born as a result of the birth of another child, and also a slight debureaucratisation in the collection of the e-card fee, because the amount is then deducted directly from the child care allowance. [[Abg. Steibl: Very good!]] On the other hand, the government parties reject improvements that we have made as a proposal and as a request. This was not quite surprising for us, but at least we believe that we would have good proposals that would allow for further improvement of the childcare allowance. In this discussion, we should point out once again what has been called the impact of the introduction of the childcare allowance by the government parties. It was said at that time that the birth rate should be increased, and the free choice of parents with regard to child care should be increased and the participation should be increased, and both of them, which should be noted today, did not occur, even if otherwise argued here. Both have not been reached. [[Abg. Steibl: Due to the karenz money but also not!]] The child care allowance in today's form has not helped to better reconcile work and family, even though the Federal Minister now says that freedom of choice would have improved. This is from the study not to read from the documents. It has only improved for the farmers and the self-employed. [[Abg. Donabauer: aren't these people?]] For the workers, if you read carefully, Mrs. Federal Minister, she has not improved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are too few incentives for fathers in it. It is therefore also important to point out that this did not achieve what we wanted. I think that you too, Mrs Federal Minister, should proceed after the vote of Mr Walch: Read, understand, and talk first! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of making the reference to child care allowance flexible, we are in favour of a right to parental leave until the first school year. We want a termination protection that cannot be caught, and we want above all comprehensive childcare facilities with quality. [[Abg. Steibl: Is there the surface coverage in the SP communities?]] All of these are proposals which include our request, but which you unfortunately cannot agree to. But I admit, Mrs Steibl, your words: Let's talk about it again, let's look at it again!, these are new sounds in the discussion, but I don't really think that's really serious. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker has just said – and with this I am at my conclusion – that mothers should stay with the children in their opinion. I think: It would be better if we let the mothers and fathers decide for themselves how long they are responsible for childcare. We have to make sure that there are enough alternatives. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13259	Mrs Marek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13280	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we have always been improving since the introduction of the childcare allowance with the experiences we make with it is a good sign and proof that we are open to improvements that we are happy to make at all times. I think we can certainly not be accused of refusing to talk, improvements are always possible, and we are happy to do so in the interests of the families concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Somehow in the debate, I feel that the SPÖ criticises that not everything that the SPÖ has missed over many, many years and has not done is now being reclaimed in a throw with a great project like the childcare allowance. You can't stop that. In principle, however, I would like to say that: Childcare money is a lot better than all that has been realized and implemented by SPÖ governments, among governments that have been led by you. Again a few basic things to remember: The pension fund until the end of 2001 was an insurance benefit linked to employment. Other parents had no claim; the education was irrelevant to the care. 80,000 persons were pensioners, de facto excluded from employment. Of course, there has been part-time leave, but it has also been linked to reduced money. You have to say that clearly, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since 2002 there has now been the childcare allowance. In September 2005, the number of persons involved was more than twice as high as the number of those involved in karenz money. That too is something you should say. One word to Kathi Pepper: Kathi, you talked about child rearing. For me, this is a concept that sounds quite good, but not only takes place for us in public institutions, but also in the family with day mothers or in individual, flexible facilities. We stand for this: for people with their individual needs. They are at the heart of us, and for which we create responsible framework conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13335	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trunk.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13366	I'm not saying: Welcome, Westenthaler! That's far from me. Mrs Haubner! First of all, a clarification: You said you didn't know what your brother, Captain Haider, meant in the introduction of child benefit at the time. Mrs. Haubner, we were both together at a discussion in which you were violently opposed to your brother at the time he meant: This child benefit is an efficient and effective measure to relieve the labour market. They did so at the time, and there we were partly on the same road, and they said: Childcare needs a mix of public care, child benefit or care and the like. This sentence, this quote, has not only fallen once, but has been read in all media. The fact that there is much more behind this quote, Mrs Haubner, shows that, under your responsibility, the Federal Government's resources for the creation and initiation of childcare facilities in Austria were reduced by 98 percent. Abbreviated by 98 percent! [[Abg. Neudeck: There is no longer even the VAT left!]] These were the federal funds that there was under SPÖ responsibility for countries and communities for the creation and establishment of childcare places. You know! And to the question of which childcare places were created in Carinthia, please give me a list of all bilingual kindergartens as an answer, which already belong to the People's Funding Act. Just so much for it! The SPÖ represents an increase in child care, where parents can freely decide on time, duration and height, and the SPÖ is above all committed to the fact that child care is not only a matter of the municipalities and/or countries, but that it is a federal task to create child care facilities with federal funds, means of tax covering, family-friendly childcare facilities, because you, who also come from the municipalities and countries, know that the communities alone cannot afford it. So that's what the SPÖ stands for. Without the appropriate framework conditions, this is not feasible. That is also true of industrial associations, the Chamber of Commerce and all statistics. That's another stone's way. Finally, we will also need family-friendly working hours in the area of the labour market, the economy and companies – and there are good models of an entrepreneur in Tyrol, for example – in order to make a family- and child-friendly Austria live and experienceable in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13420	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13444	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trunk has started by saying what happened when. – If we were to quote everything you or your colleagues said sometime! Much is wrong with what has been said. And: Forget about a bit of the squirrel. By the way: If you don't know yourself with the numbers, you might say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, An ÖVP/BZÖ government brings together 2 percent more than a SPÖ government with 98 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debates on child care are unfortunately still of the same character. On the one hand, the advocates, who deliberately put family orientation in the foreground, and on the other hand, the critics, who already want to overreact to the smallest of the little ones extra-domestic care. Unfortunately, in these debates, however, the needs of children are still far too little. If we asked the one- to three-year-olds what they wanted, they would certainly stand out for father and mother's care and against the exclusive care in Hort and Kindergarten. Children need the care and care of their parents. We all know that, and yet there is still this ideological debate over the heads of the children. The benefits of the study of the Austrian Family Research Institute have already been set out by the Members accordingly. That is why I should like to move on to what is actually the most important point for me, namely that the introduction of the childcare allowance has encouraged family orientation. And there, unfortunately, the spirits are divorcing. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, about the left half of the empire in this house: This is the most important result, because that corresponds exactly to the children's desire. A stronger family orientation, more time for children and their needs. Those who have children themselves know how precious and important this time is. By evaluating the Childcare Money Act today and closing a gap that has opened up to multiple families, this federal government proves that it is pursuing family policy with heart and mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13483	Mrs Rossmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Trunk, I really want to make it clear here: We and the head of state have never seen child money as a relief from the labour market. We have seen it as a maximum relief and compensation for all those families that children, whenever possible, like to raise themselves, who like to be at home, who want to give the children nest heat and a healthy social foundation for the future. That this is true has proved a survey with a sample of 170,000 parents. Of 170 000 parents, 150 000 said: We want to raise our children ourselves. These are the facts and these are the facts! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] However, we are pleased that the SPÖ has now discovered the love of child money, after it has voted against it at its introduction, and is now also so intensely concerned with it. I don't know, do you agree now or don't agree, we don't know yet, we're at least willing to adapt something if there's something to adapt, and that's what distinguishes us from you. We have a lot of different things at all: While you only made it possible for women working at the time, we have introduced the care allowance for all women, whether farmers, self-employed or students. While you have created two categories of women, namely mothers with karenz money and those without it, we have created the karenz money for all mothers. While, under a women's minister Prammer, you have reduced the two-year-olds to a year-and-a-half, we have increased the reference period and even doubled it to three years when the fathers go to Karenz. Please take note at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] While you have only enabled replacement periods for the pension at the karenz money, we have not only enabled replacement times under BZÖ Minister Haubner, but also real pension-based times, namely saying and writing at the level of 1 360 €. That's more than a lot of women even deserve. [[Abg. Riepl: And the pensions are shortened!]] - Yes, you don't want to hear everything. While under the SPÖ Women's Minister Prammer, instead of 8 years of pension reform, suddenly 15 years come out of work for women to earn a pension at all, under the Minister of Social Affairs, Uschi Haubner, we have provided the opportunity for women to acquire retirement periods for two children at the age of seven. [[Abg. Riepl: And the pensions have been shortened!]] – You don’t want to hear all that, I know! While SPÖ is under the chairmanship of the Carinthian Ms. Schaunig against the baby money, we lead under the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider with 1. July 800 € baby money for each newborn baby. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is your social policy!]] While the SPÖ family policy is seen as a purely women's policy, we say: We've both got a place! And so we have also become top riders in the female employment rate in Europe, and at the same time the decline in birth has been stopped. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can only say: We can only hope that SPÖ in our country will not take responsibility for women and family policies so quickly. And I can say, We will do everything we can to prevent that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13591	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Childcare Act, including the title and receipt in 1490 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1491. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This has been done by a majority. [[20:29:29]] 33. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1413, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contracting Service Law 1948, the Richterdienstgesetz, the Law on Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of the Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Law of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Law of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and Laws of the Law of the Law of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and Laws of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Laws of
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13652	We're now going to 33. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13679	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I give you a little surprise, a sweet surprise, a personal gift from me – a table of chocolate. [[General condolences.]] When you look at the panel, you can see that the loop is specially designed. There are wheelchair drivers on it who drive over ramps and roll a bouquet of flowers or a ostrich of sections. The name “Zother” is not written in letters but in sign signs. And the title of the chocolate “Accessibility Tastes” can only be read in Braille; a “Brailleline” could also be said. Of course, chocolate does not replace a law – neither should it. Laws are passed here. We have passed the Equality Act here, it has been since 1. In force. But actions such as these should bring the equality law to people's attention should bring it into conversation. I have sent such plates of chocolate to many institutions, institutions, decision-makers, and this helps to open doors and gates. I would also like to invite you to share the chocolate with others and to reflect on what you can do in your own area to implement accessibility. Today, we are taking another important step towards the equality of people with disabilities, opening up vocational access. It's not supposed to be like that anymore. disabled people are classified according to drawers: Someone sitting in the wheelchair gets Portier, someone who's deaf comes to the archive, and someone who's blind becomes a phone player. Every disabled person should be given job prospects according to his abilities and talents and the vocational training that he is entitled to. It was also true with me that I should have become accountants, that was planned – you would have missed a lot, at least there would be no chocolate today. [[General cheerfulness and general condolences.]] Physical fitness is removed from all service rights and thus it is also possible for a blind person to become a judge, for example, or a deaf person to teach, or a blind or wheelchair-driven person to exercise the profession of a teacher. That was unthinkable until recently. I believe that this will take a very important step. But also here, of course, this law must be fulfilled with life. I would like to encourage disabled people to go their way. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution concerning the Notarial Act. Blind people, when signing a contract, must complete a notarial act so that the signature is valid. Blind people feel this is discrimination. The Monitoring Act also included an exception for blind entrepreneurs in the review. And it has been shown in the review that this is too far-reaching, and that is why it has been withdrawn and is now being completely re-examined. There should be a very comprehensive new regulation. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13767	Mr Huainigg, Dr Partik-Pablé, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van den Broek, the motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13831	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13852	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr. Dr. Huainigg, we would like to thank you very much for the sugar shock you have provided us with after two hard days before the end of this plenary session. It's a very important sign, just: Chocolate melts in the mouth – and we advocate that the policy for disabled people be continued to spread and that the policy for disabled people contributes to the recognition of disabled people in our society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true! That's quiet!]] The Employment Equality Act has been applicable since 1. January 2006. We have here today a law of monitoring which we will agree with – we also agree with the requests made by the Greens and by the ÖVP. Many years ago, seven years ago, there was a working group in which it was about “fighting” in the legal provisions in order to eliminate discriminatory acts. Here too, after eight or nine years, we are taking another step, but unfortunately not the whole step. They have once again shown that although a step has been taken, the big throw is still far away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For access to education, access to work is still associated with many stumbling blocks for disabled people and with many barriers. It is important that we not only appeal to the heart and to the sensitivity in society, but that disabled people can share equally. The removal of a section succeeded in the committee, for which I also thanked myself very much, namely that the Members of the Government have seen that it is not a matter of curative masseurs – as it was included in the government template – that one must be intelligent if one wants to practice this profession, and mentally stable. We were able to delete this wording, for which I thanked the colleagues very much once again. There is still a lot to be done, however. Perhaps Mr Huainigg's chocolate will give us some strength, but I think we would have needed a bigger table.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13953	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e13974	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Huainigg, thank you for the chocolate table. My previous speaker certainly did not understand what Mr Huainigg meant by that. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Mr Huainigg said: For people with disabilities, there has never been as much as this federal government has done for them, and that is a lot. Mrs Lapp is here and speaks of access to the labour market and so on. Where were you when we passed these laws here? Where were you when we decided on the disability billions? Where were you when we decided to have easier access to the labour market? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - Listen, colleague, you don't know yourself so well in this area! I've got to get you up there. Where were you when the sign language received such recognition? Where were you when the care allowance was introduced from the birth of the child? And we've done a lot more! And this proposal is another step towards improving people with disabilities. Mr Huainigg has expressed his thanks to this Federal Government on behalf of the people with disabilities. I would also like to thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We will also continue this programme for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14027	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14054	Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand this great excitement. Col. Huainigg wanted to give us the consent to this Federal Disability Equality Act – for that I thank myself, that was very nice and attentive from him, also a very personal gesture. Nevertheless, I must also say to Mr Huainigg, who is probably on his way to his place: Yes, well, we have achieved formal equality, but the current amendments have not yet achieved the level playing field. We abandon physical fitness as a prerequisite for access to certain professions – well so, no question at all, only: Whether disabled people are actually in a position to be able and allowed to practice these professions remains open. This is probably only partially regulated by a law. Nevertheless, it would have been good to have thought beyond formal thought about how to actually create equality. Mr Walch, it is nice if you interpret colleague Huainigg, but he has interpreted himself anyway. I don't think he needs the interpretation by another person. He said something to us, he sent us a message that I understood, which we all understood. [[Abg. Neudeck: The colleague Lapp did not understand!]] There is no need for Mr Walch, who interprets Mr Huainigg. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Oellinger, you have understood, Mrs Lap not!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Excuse me, but this is also an important point in dealing with each other. It can speak for itself to anyone standing out here. [[Abg. Grillitsch: But that was now at the address of Mrs. Lapp!]] - No, it wasn't at Mrs. Lapp's address. Mrs Lapp wanted to express – I do not understand the great emotion that exists now at all – that the enforcement of the actual equality of disabled people still needs a considerable amount of work, and she symbolized this with a slightly larger chocolate. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You don't need to interpret Mrs. Lapp!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Why can't Walch Huainigg interpret you already?]] It wasn't meant to be evil at all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been mentioned how close we have been to great embarrassments in the decision-making of this law in the committee – I am also very glad that this was to be put down in the short term. This proves this originally still contained passage in the Medical Massage and Heal Law, where not only the physical ability, but also the corresponding intelligence – it is even thicker when Collaborator Lapp said that – was also a condition for mental stability. I am very glad that this could be changed, but it proves how close we are to some points. I also mentioned to you – you will remember – other passages in this law, where I believe that the conditions for access, but also the absence of conditions for the exercise of certain professions, should not be made dependent on whether the head of state agrees or rejects. That's – I'm sorry, we've been counting the centuries, Mr. Grillitsch – 19. ==References== The recognition of certain professional qualifications in some respects depends on the head of state, that is beyond. [[Abg. Grill: This is often difficult, yes!]] We have therefore also suggested that this should also be changed in the event of a future revision. At the same time, however, I am also telling you – that is the point that Mr Lapp has already mentioned – that: Further action is needed, as the 2003 government programme also mentions other points where changes are necessary, but which you have not yet begun. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This also makes it clear where there is still a need for change. In the field of education, we do not yet have equality, nor in the field of transport. And what has so far been available is not enough to be able to actually talk about equality of treatment for the disabled. In addition to this formal amendment, which we naturally agree with, we need something more, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14179	The motion for a resolution just read by Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14246	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14268	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, yes, of course there is still a lot to do, but I think we have taken important and correct steps in the last few years in the field of disability work. I am now quoting our disabled speaker, the disabled speaker of the ÖVP Group, Franz-Joseph Huainigg, whom we are very proud of, because he has made a decisive contribution to the fact that this was possible, also within our group. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Franz-Joseph Huainigg says again and again: Disability work is a way! – I believe that this is a very wise statement, because it does not only need legal measures, but also a rethinking in the minds of many people and also a awareness of this subject. I think that under this government very decisive steps have been taken in the right direction in recent years. It has already been mentioned today: integrative vocational training, recognition of sign language, establishment of a disabled lawyer. With today's decision-making of this so-called "Bundle" law, we are introducing further important measures that complete the disability equal treatment law. Perhaps the discussion at the beginning was a bit controversial, without it actually being so wanted – I say so. I would like to thank my colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg not for the chocolate, but for having done so much expertise and expertise here all these years, with so much commitment and sensitivity, and also out of his own distress, lobbying for the disabled and for the disabled in this country. I think that's what matters. And thank you very much, Franz-Joseph. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I don't know if you're doing the same thing, but I'm telling you quite honestly: I am always impressed and also touched by his way of dealing with the subject. I say it again: also from his own concern. For me, he is really a model here again and again with his work and his commitment. I now come to the amendment that has already been announced. We take this into account in the Committee's discussion. I honestly admit – even Franz-Joseph Huainigg said that – that was read by us. We take this into account, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. I say it again: I think we all know there's still a lot to do. I am still very well reminded of the fight of the blind Klagenfurt lawyer, who then fought across the media to become a judge, and who is now very successful in the Klagenfurt magistrate. There is still much to be done here, but this government has the right measures to take. And I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14375	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Scheucher-Pichler, Walch is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14399	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too very much welcome the fact that there has been a rethinking in society as regards dealing with disabled people. I am also very pleased that we all manage to work together to eliminate the barriers that often exist in dealing with people with disabilities, especially in the minds. I very much welcome this, and I think that all of us who sit here in the National Council should always take action in our areas to ensure that there are many, many improvements for disabled people. I believe that we all agree on this. Today's law, which we are now adopting, the Federal Disability Equality Act, is further improving for disabled people on the labour market. We agree, of course, with this law. We welcome all the measures that will help people with disabilities to become more equal, to allow people with disabilities to participate more in life and to ensure that people with disabilities in particular can work in their own areas of life. Nevertheless, it must be allowed – I think, for this we are here too – that we also put our fingers on the wounds that still exist. In the field of disability, things need to be changed – that has already been mentioned by Mr Lap – whether in the field of education, education or culture, where there are still many obstacles for disabled people, but also for their families. There are still many open issues in the area of mobility, in the area of transport, also in the area of housing, and there are many questions in particular regarding barrier-free construction and accessible public spaces. We should all work together, as I mean, to ensure that real equality, equality for people with disabilities are not only beautiful words, but can actually be lived. All these areas that I have addressed are simply areas of life in which disabled people are also at home. And our concern must be that effective equality law simply goes not only in one direction, namely to eliminate not only disadvantages, but above all not to feel sorry for people with disabilities, but equal rights in the field of disability must mean that disabled people can participate in all areas of life and that they can, above all, lead a self-determined life.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14433	Mrs Mittermüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14454	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Government template 1413 of the Supplements further strengthens and strengthens the protection of discrimination for disabled people in Austria. In 19 legal instruments, the terms “body, mental or health fitness” are replaced by the non-discriminatory terms “fitness” or “personal and professional fitness”. This will make a major contribution to the development of the European Union. Step towards the anti-discrimination of disabled people in Austria and the elimination of barriers in their professional practice. This awareness raising for the interests of disabled people in Austria was introduced by the Law on the Equality of Disabled Persons. This law was passed by Mag. Herbert Haupt prepared and implemented by our Federal Minister Ursula Haubner. Our law on equal treatment for disabled persons is a model throughout Europe, because it also includes legal claims up to damages for the disabled. The constant criticism of the opposition is certainly unfounded. Now we make it easier for disabled people to access professions, for so far, for example, blind people have not been able to take up the judicial profession – in the future they can do so. Finally, Mrs Haubner, Mr Huainigg, and all those who have contributed to the exemplary disability policy in Austria, are to be thanked.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14499	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I see it as very positive that this law is also a unanimous decision-making process for the National Council. They show that accessibility and removal of barriers are a real concern to each one of you. Getting accessibility into the conversation can happen in a variety of ways. One of the sweetest and most charming species, if you want to do so, was to call us back to consciousness with the chocolate here, that we still have a lot to do, although, of course, some things have already happened. With the so-called "Bundle Law" here, we are consistently continuing what we have started in the Handicapped Employment Act and what has been since 1. January 2006 is in force. It is important in this law to facilitate access to work for people with disabilities in public service, but also in numerous other professions. The legal situation in connection with the implementation of the Federal Disability Equality Package has been well established. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the conciliation procedure at the Federal Social Offices is in practice accepted as a particularly low level of access to the right. The possibility of talking about conflict solutions in the form-free framework is highly appreciated. ==References== In January 2006, 43 conciliation applications were submitted, 18 of which have already been completed. 63 per cent of applications concern discrimination against workers and 37 per cent concern the area of the Federal Disability Equality Act. You see the numbers: It is a law that is alive, that is accepted and that does exactly what it was created for, that is, to help people quickly to their right. I think today's decision-making is another important element in the development of equal opportunities and equal access for men and women. Disability to the profession, but also to participation in social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14566	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1482 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Scheucher-Pichler, Walch, colleagues and others tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall leave the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Scheucher-Pichler, Walch, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huainigg, Dr Partik-Pablé, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van den Broek, on the notarial act as a service for disabled people. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 190.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues, on further necessary measures in connection with the decision-making of the Federal Disability Equality Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:00:38]] 34. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1408, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Special Support Act (Sozialrechts-Amendingsgesetz 2006 – SRÄG 2006) (1483 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14649	We're on our way to 34. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14674	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Social Rights Amendment Act 2006 contains a wide range of regulations concerning the e-card, the new regulation of the compensation fund, to which you were more or less forced, the anchoring of women's policy measures, repairs in weekly and health insurance and framework time-limits in unemployment insurance – but unfortunately only the self-employed, not the inclusion of the free employees, which was already foreseen in the approach, but then was no longer included in the government template. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] But they originally wanted to overlook or overlook something in the government template – I don't know now – namely the co-insurance of the partners. As the first speaker, I am a bit difficult now because a request has been announced to me, but it has not yet been submitted here. However, I am already referring to it because, after all the negotiations, it is believed that it will also be brought in by one of the next speakers of the government groups. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Who knows!]] This request now provides for the repair of the co-insurance of life-mates, but it is again discriminatory, namely the same-sex life-partnerships, and I am really disappointed that you still want to discriminate against these forms of a community. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who will be discriminated against?]] Furthermore, you have a point in the government paper that I am still trying to amend on an amendment. I will try to convince you that you agree to this amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] What's that about? – This is probably relatively difficult to understand, especially if one has not looked at matter, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: I looked at her! I've been negotiating them too! No one is being discriminated against!]] - Yeah, do you know what it's all about? – That’s great! [[Abg. Scheibner be sure.]] Then I assume you will agree. The question is that, at the same time as health care for railways, the injured pension has so far been paid to the railways since the 19th century. She was paid out a week, after the government plan she will not be paid until the 27. Week paid. Although there is a difference between pay and sickness benefit and the sickness benefit is lower than the payer's pension, in the case of severely injured persons, this difference to the pension will no longer be the same as in the previous 19th century. Week paid out. We find this to be really unfair, and this is also absolutely not a necessary measure, because it concerns about 40 people who are hard-doers, and I would very much like, Mr Scheibner – if you say you have read it through and you know it – that you agree with our amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14779	The request made by Mrs Heidrun Silhavy by Mr Heidrun Silhavy and colleagues on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs 1483 of the Supplements is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14850	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. His welcome time is 4 minutes – I set the clock to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14873	Mr President. Minister! High house! We are dealing with the Social Rights Amendment Act 2006: a wealth of necessary adjustments, improvements, progress in social policy, as a living matter requires. I would like to highlight three points. The first concerns the e-card, the possibility of having private data stored, the possibility, in particular, of maintaining a pension claim, in line with the wishes of the senior associations. I think it is symptomatic that all the concerns that some of us had when introducing the e-card that people would be afraid of, the glass man and so on, have been removed and we are even confronted with the opposite. The demands – what you still want – are actually much higher than the technical feasibility in the course of the introduction process. For data protection reasons, we are very reluctant here. – In total, the e-card is a success story of social security and this federal government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to point out, as my previous speaker has also done, the women's promotion measures in the field of social security which are standardised here, the call to the sending self-managed institutions to look at the quotas when sending. – That is necessary! In the social security field, we are following the measures of the Federal Service under the pressure of the legislator. – This is good and unfortunately also necessary, because it is an area that is dominated primarily by red trade unions. We know: The reddening of the representation of interests, the worse the conditions for women in these areas of work. [[Call the SPÖ.]] You know that too, don't you?! – Mrs. Csörgits, for example, has no penthouse, I suppose. The third point I would like to highlight: In this area we regulate the compensation and structural funds of social security and health insurance. What did it mean, ladies and gentlemen? – Two-Class medicine, worse access to health, hospitals will be locked, the financing of health insurance is no longer ensured. – And today we have an operating surplus of €20 million with the measures that are now being decided and which have unanimously gone over the stage in the main association! – This is a result that can only be congratulated on this federal government and also the leadership of the main association! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The opposite is the case! Accident hospitals have been newly built, the e-card – I have already mentioned – has greatly facilitated access, bureaucratic shocks for patients and insured people have been abolished, no increases in contributions, no new restraints. In this Federal Government, social security is in good hands. We're the best address for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14938	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. Its speaking time is 3 minutes; I also set the clock to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e14959	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits, in your euphoric speech you should have forgotten that the problem of the financing of cranes has been solved. the telephone is not quite regulated, because if You include the 100 million € bond at AUVA, then the result looks a little different. They say: No contribution increases! – Well, maybe you forgot: For pensioners, you have a percent – twice 0.5 percent. – So if you come out here, at least you shouldn’t have such a sloppy way of dealing with the truth as is yours, Mr Tancsits! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Tancsits, I am now also referring to this compensation fund and to the regulation, which is quite acceptable, which we could also agree with, if you did not make it so difficult for us to accept this amendment, which includes it, where you do not yet comply with a constitutional court knowledge, because this regulation, Mr Tancsits, has also become necessary on the basis of a constitutional court knowledge. And you know it very well: The checkout action was the reason why we have to deal with the new regulation again today. Another point is the transfer of due tobacco tax. They also know that the financial compensation, with the 90 million, has not done quite that way, because in the first year some 12.6 million € have been received. There is actually a lack of a piece to make it effective for the financing of hospitals. And you also know, you've had a great opportunity to set minimum prices for tobacco. The EU Commission has told you that too. It would have been possible to proceed with an increase in excise duties. The health care would have gotten more money. They have opted for the other variant and at the same time have ensured that the EU will initiate proceedings against you. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15007	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Desirable time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15029	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits has already said correctly that there are again many positive changes to the Social Rights Amendment Act 2006, to the e-card, which will be a kind of card for pensioners, and much more. Mr Silhavy referred to the new scheme with the co-insurers. Of course, the coalition has prepared a corresponding amendment which I am submitting here. I would ask the President to distribute the amendment, but I will explain this request in his broad outlines. ==References====External links== In October 2005, the possibility of co-insurance of life-mates was abolished, on the grounds that this possibility is only open to different sexes, but not to the same sexes. We have developed the solution. This is as follows: ‘As a family member, the insured person who has been living with him/her in a household for at least ten months shall also be considered to be a person who has not been related to the insured person and has been holding the household free of charge with him/her since that time,... if: (a) they shall be entitled to the education of one or more children living in the common household in accordance with point (b) of the first subparagraph. 4 first sentence dedicated or devoted to child rearing for at least four years; (b) they are entitled to care allowance at least at stage 4 according to § 5 of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz or according to the provisions of the Landespflegegeldsgesetz;’; “Persons according to § 123 para. 8 lit. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Having completed a lifetime, continue to be entitled as a family... Persons who, according to § 123 para. 8 lit. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website As long as the relevant facts do not change, however, for a longer period until the end of the 31st century. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This change of law takes account of co-insurance and takes particular account of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15087	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Walch, in his main remarks, has been tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Tancsits, Walch and College on the draft law in the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs 1483 of the Supplements to the Government template 1408 of the Supplements to a Social Rights Amendment Act 2006 is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. According to § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15449	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. Its welcome time is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the Social Rights Amendment Act, I deal with a special topic, namely the co-insurance of living partners. At the end of July 2006, the Constitutional Court held § 123 para. 8 lit. b ASVG to the full, with the result that there is no longer any possibility of co-insurance from that date onwards. Since this would be an unsustainable social abuse, which must be avoided under all circumstances, we need a rapid and social solution. As we have demonstrated, criticized and requested changes from the SPÖ, Mr Walch and Mr Tancsits have now tabled a joint amendment. This proposal is certainly an improvement in relation to the government template, but it does not solve all the problems in this context. For example, the introduction of an age limit – we have just heard it before – of 27 years in your application as a criterion, whether co-insurance is possible or not, is absolutely incomprehensible to us. Their reason for this is that from the 27th century onward. Life on the labour market is difficult to mediate, either by the hair or by a declaration of bankruptcy of your own labour market policy. With this provision in § 628 you regulate co-insurance again only for different sexes, but not for same sexes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] Write to They continue, again, precisely the discrimination which the Constitutional Court of Justice has abolished as illegal to equality. And for this reason, we cannot accept the Government's proposal in the form of your amendment. I therefore propose an amendment to the SPÖ Group. The amendment tabled by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, colleagues, will also be distributed in a few minutes. In his cornerstones, he sees that there is no pointless, yes arbitrary and discriminatory age limit for the recognition of co-insurance. There should be co-insurance regardless of whether childlessness exists or not. And the knowledge of the Constitutional Court must be implemented. That is to say, there must be no difference in the question of co-insurance between sexual and other sexual communities. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties, to support our amendment so that we can solve this problem together and in the interests of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15511	The amendment tabled by Mr Dobnigg in the key points, tabled by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs 1483 dB on the Government template (1408 of the Supplements) on a Social Rights Amendment Act 2006 is distributed. He is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15628	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His welcome time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15649	Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard for you to take a position on such a different set of innovations, but I'm trying to do it. Point 1: The proposed amendments concerning the e-card find our support, although they are not inspired by the thought, that Mr Tancsits wanted to spread that a storm of different groups had turned on the e-card. Mr Tancsits, I have already explained that it is quite clear that pensioners are asking for this because they also expect appropriate benefits, reductions, deductions et cetera and a simpler administration. But it is not, Mr Tancsits, that in the past the extensions of the e-card you have proposed would have been useful or practical. They suggested – it was not our proposal – to store health data. – Not practicable, not meaningful, data protection illegal. You have proposed to store emergency data on the card. – Not practicable, not meaningful, data protection illegal. You, the government parties, have suggested that you link the e-card to a bank card. And all of you were obviously clear – or not – that one does not work with the other, from technical functionality. Nevertheless, you wanted it because the banks wanted it and tried to agree that it was useful. – So, that’s how it looks with the meaningful changes and extensions! The fact that there are now also extensions to the e-card for social assistance providers is not least due to a call of groups that have rightly said that one cannot give 99 percent the e-card, but one percent is not, because that fulfils the practice of discrimination. That would actually be the point where I could transfer to what you are proposing in your amendment, which in turn fulfils the record of hidden discrimination. But I am not ready, because there is another point to which I would like to make an amendment. It's about nursing children in the spare time calculation. I'll cut it off because it's time. [[Quoted print version removed]] A brief explanation: There are also nursing children who have been cared for before, where it can also be shown that they have been cared for or that the nursing parents have provided the care. They are still excluded. We ask you to take this into account. They have been maintained, can prove it and should therefore also be included in the replacement time scheme. – That was the meaning of the request. But now I come to the amendment that has caught us an hour ago. I am not entirely of the opinion of Mr Dobnigg that there has been some improvement. In my opinion, nothing has been improved at all on the crucial points! And I am now telling Mr Scheibner where nothing has been improved. The Constitutional Court annulled the provision of § 123, paragraph 8, as unconstitutional, with a time-limit. First, they waited until the end to make a correction. You could have discussed it with us. They did not want to discuss it because you had something to hide; at least Mr Tancsits in the committee has raised this appearance. He didn't want to talk about it properly, and he shook. That was my impression. That was just grudge. The point is that the Federal Government then appealed to the Constitutional Court – and the Constitutional Court also notes this in its judgment – that is, the Federal Government – would like to see a reason for distinction in the intention of promoting families with children, which, as the Federal Government now says, cannot exist in the same-sex communities. What are you doing? – You are now submitting an amendment which does not contain any other sexual or heterosexual or sexual, but you are submitting an amendment which refers to the criterion of the presence of children, and thus you are saying what the Federal Government has said to the VfGH. This excludes the same-sex communities because, according to the Federal Government, there cannot be the promotion of families with children in the same sex communities. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] Now, of course, I also know that in the extreme case, there may also be people in homosexual relationships who previously lived in a heterosexual partnership, in which heterosexual partnership has cared for a child for four years, and who have then, as it were, changed to a homosexual partnership. Since they have cared for a child for four years, they would have the opportunity to stay at home and not work to claim co-insurance. Only, Mr Scheibner, are we quite open, you know as well as I do, these men, even though they have lived in heterosexual partnerships that have stayed at home for four years and have cared for the child, which is not available in the past. It didn't exist. [[Abg. Scheibner: It can be women too!]] - Yes, they can be women. Of course, it can be women. [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't understand why you're grinning!]] But the point is quite clear, I even admit to you, that this criterion, which you are now suggesting, de facto means the exclusion of homosexual partnerships from co-insurance, but not so much the exclusion of lesbian partnerships. Only, without discrimination, that is certainly not the case, Mr Scheibner, that was found here on this occasion. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, of course!]] And above all, the criterion of comprehensive equality between homosexual and heterosexual partnerships does not satisfy this proposed amendment with certainty. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very contradictory what you say!]] It contains criteria of hidden discrimination, which were clearly brought to the attention of the members of the opposition parties in the Committee. And that, Mr Scheibner,... – It was indicated in the main guidelines where the scheme should go. [[Abg. Scheibner: There has not been this regulation yet!]] And that's not clean.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15779	The amendment tabled by Members of Parliament on the Government template (1408 d.b._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act et cetera (Sozialrechts-Amending Act 2006) is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15830	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15852	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austrian social policy has always been and is known to be tangible throughout Europe. I think a lot has just been done in recent years. I only remember the childcare allowance, which has already been discussed in detail today, redundancies, family hospice, pension reform: timely, so that you don't have to cut it if it's inappropriate. I read in the newspapers that it's supposed to reduce operating pensions. I can't imagine all this, but I read it in the newspapers. – We have provided by the government that all of this does not happen. I think that, above all, the Health Reform Act was really a successful legislative measure and is also responsible for the fact that social security schemes as a whole have a positive effect this year. Even if you don't like to hear it, I have to say things have just been done. Of course, what requires me to think about is: How can it be that in the planning for 2005 € 560 million, and then in the financial statement a plus of 20 million? Now you could say: Yes, there have been 100 million of the AUVA, no question. But this difference should not exist in the careful management of a social security institution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. You need to know what you're talking about, Karl!]] You won't be happy, I know, but you can do better. It's strange what you see, when you look at which checkouts are positive and which have still not done so. It's weird! This law also states that women should be better represented both in self-government and in senior positions in the future. I know a social security scheme, for example, that of farmers who have been dealing with this problem for a long time, and I think we can be seen here. It has been extended to include the list of occupational diseases. Mr Oellinger, you could have mentioned this, because I think that is a good additional measure. [[Abg. Oils: Not enough!]] Mr. Herbs will get angry because he is a notary critic of the e-card. This e-card is a product that is recognised throughout Europe. Representatives from other countries come to us and study the project and finally want to apply it. We have it, and today we are evaluating this e-card and making it available for further tasks. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think this is a very, very positive development. I would also like to point out that in this amendment, the extension of the working hours for occupational and industrial social security is fixed by one year. You know, we're planning to develop a joint carrier. We haven't succeeded until the hour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] They did not help us, so we did not succeed. You would have had the opportunity to make some good contribution, but you missed it. However, we are not waiting for and will certainly initiate this development in the next few days. I'd ask you to do that, too. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm missing one of all the positives, and I have to say this: I expected that the replacement time scheme in G- and BSVG would still be completed. This has been promised several times! But not yet is the last day, and I think there is still a chance that we will also solve this open question.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15914	The next speaker is Mrs Mittermüller. Your welcome time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15935	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Government template on the Social Rights Amendment Act includes a number of adaptations and improvements for the application of the e-card. [[Abg. Riepl: But the pensions have been shortened by you!]] In future, this can also be used as a pension card. An important part of the legislation, which may be concerned, is the extension of the list of occupational diseases. So far 52 diseases have been detected, the list has been extended by the evil heart disease caused by asbestos and the increased reporting of accidents at work. We thus improve the protection of employees in Austria and show that this protection is a constant concern for us. [[Abg. Riepl: But the pensions have been shortened!]] We are also essential to ensuring the co-insurance of life partners who provide child education and care services within these partnerships. – An important achievement in our society is probably undisputed, and therefore we hope for broad approval of our amendment. Today's decision-making will again take important steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e15996	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16017	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Social Rights Amendment Act brings a wealth of changes, adaptations and improvements. A positive approach to this government will continue. The ASVG's list of occupational diseases has been extended by asbestos to include the malignant formations of the heart bag. The proposal also includes the legal anchoring of special support measures for women within the meaning of the Federal Equality Act and the observance of the women's quota when sending insurance representatives to the self-government bodies and the granting of a proposal right for the appointment of a member of the Social and Health Forum Austria. Special attention has also been paid to the field of job creation. Improvements and clarifications are being made in accordance with the Employment Law. A major clarification is also made in the field of occupational accidents and diseases. In all cases, the employee should be obliged to report to the accident insurance institution in the event of accidents at work and occupational diseases. As a general rule, the employee can better explain the accident or the cause of the occupational disease while the deceased receives information from third parties. In addition, the employee has the opportunity to draw the necessary consequences for the general prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases, so that the proposed scheme is at least another step towards more effective protection of workers. I would like to thank the Ministry, the Minister of Justice, the Government and all the officials for the preventive change in the law and ask for your appreciated approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16063	Mrs Haubner has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16084	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important changes to the Social Rights Amendment Act have already been made by the previous speakers, I may wish to mention some of them in particular. There is also an extension of the period of protection following the withdrawal from health insurance from three to six weeks. This measure closes an insurance gap, which has been absolutely necessary. A further improvement is being made by the introduction of an "equivalency rule" for the calculation of weekly allowance for emergency workers. This measure is based on an account of the Chamber of Workers. A third thing, which seems very important to me and which has also been said by the previous speakers: the citizens-friendly improvement for pensioners in connection with data storage on the e-card. As a generation minister, I know that this is a long-standing wish of the Senior Organisations; these suggestions and demands have also been made to me in the Federal Advisory Council. This is another important step, especially for more citizens. The legal anchoring of special women's promotion measures in social security is a necessary must. If you look at the conditions in the salary groups of department heads, directors and senior employees, you know that there is an urgent need for action here. There are 71.4 per cent men and 28.5 per cent women in department heads and directors, and 92.5 per cent in executive positions. Men and 7.5 percent women. I therefore very much welcome the implementation of this suggestion by the Minister for Women. On what Mrs Silhavy said about her amendment, I would just like to point out that this is a clarification, a legal clarification that has been made at the request of the railway and mining insurance institution, and that this does not lead to any other result, but to the current legal situation. On the amendment concerning co-insurance, I would like to say that, as a family minister, I welcome this repair, this necessary repair, because this process clearly refers to benefits that bring added value to society, namely to the education of children and to the care and care of family members, and this corresponds to a sustainable social policy for all generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16132	The next honourable Member is Mr Scheibner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to address the criticism made by Members of the opposition to our rules on co-insurance. For us, it was clear that the provision removed by the VfGH knowledge must be repaired. Of course, we want to continue to have the co-insurance of partners in communities and in marriage, but in a just and comprehensible way, namely in the sense – as the Constitutional Court pointed out in its knowledge and reasoning – to construct this preferential co-insurance as a family benefit. As Mrs Haubner has already said, this is about a privilege, about subsidising through social security contributions from all of us, and this must be understandable. We said it yesterday when discussing the patchwork families: How adult people live together, in what way and in what compositions, that is their private matter. The state is not supposed to interfere. There should be no rules, no discrimination, no privileges either. Only where there is an interest, where it is necessary, should the State also be privileged, supporting with tax money, and that is only where children are to be cared for or where other care services are necessary. This is precisely what we have voted on. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] If couples – whether with or without a marriage permit – have care services to perform when they have children to care for or have provided, it is understandable that the non-working partner will benefit from free insurance. That should remain the same in the future, for that we stand! But if that is not the case if a couple live together and decide for free that one of the partners does not pursue employment, then he should be able to insure himself and then also to pay the normal contribution, for it is not to be argued that we all that all other insured persons with their contributions will be able to participate in this free decision. Mr Oellinger, it is not a sluggish discrimination against anyone, because it is clear that every community providing care for children, that every community providing care benefits from the benefit of the non-compulsory Co-insurance comes. This is a clear rule, and I believe that it also holds in front of every constitutional court. There is a privilege, I admit, and this is marriage, the communion of marriage with marriage: If there are no children in a marriage, there is no free co-insurance, but at least a favourable co-insurance. Now you can say: That's not quite consistent! We have discussed this very intensively, and it was of course also thought to delete that, although I can say one thing: This matter, this regulation was created here in Parliament. This is a very positive thing and I have taken a very long time to admit that. We would have liked to see this brought in earlier, but we really negotiated until the end, because it was important for us to find a good solution. It can be argued that there are rules in marriage other than in other communities, because there are mutual obligations in marriage, care obligations which also benefit the state because one saves social benefits. And that there can also be privileges where there are obligations, that is also understandable in this case. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We have created a transitional right that those who have trusted that there are these privileges can continue to trust that no one will be taken away, but that there can only be new demands where children are to be cared for or care services are provided. A difficult matter – I thank all those who have contributed to solving this matter. It has not been easy for anyone, but I think it is a good solution, a good compromise that is really future-oriented, good and direction-setting in the sense of family benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16217	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1483 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Tancsits, Mr Walch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Mr Silhavy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional request. In addition, Mr Matznetter has asked for a separate vote. First of all, I would like to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and the request for separate vote in accordance with the order of the legislative text and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt. Deputies Mag. Mr Tancsits, Mr Walch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of point 7b into Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Tancsits, Mr Walch, and Mr Colleagues, tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new point 11a (§ 123 para. 7a) in Article 1 to the content. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Members of Silhavy, colleagues also have an additional request for the insertion of paragraph 11a, but with reference to § 123 para. 8 lit. b. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Mr Silhavy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning the withdrawal of Article 1(18) and the corresponding renumberings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 Z 18 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a point 18a into Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen have an additional request concerning Article 1 Z 36 § 628 para. 1 Z 1a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have an additional request concerning Article 1 Z 36 § 628 para. 1 Z 2 and the necessary renumberings, and para. 3a and 3b and Article 2 ZZ 1a and 1b. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of such a sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have an additional request concerning Article 2(83 paragraph. 8 to be inserted. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – Mr Scheuch, are you standing or are you sitting? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I'm standing!]] Good. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. The members of Silhavy, colleagues and colleagues also have an additional request concerning Article 2(83)(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 8 to be inserted. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 4a into Article 2 I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. The Members of Parliament Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen have an additional request concerning Article 2(314). 1 Z 1a inserted I ask those Members who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 2(314). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Article 3a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Mr Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Rule 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Deputies Mag. Tancsits, Walch, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 4 I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:48:53]] 35. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1365, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law amending the Foreign Employment Act (2. EU Enlargement Adjustment Act (1486 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16263	We're now going to the 35th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent His welcome time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16292	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it very briefly. – In the sense of equality with the other enlargement countries and also because we believe that the very different regime of the labour market is in relation to the enlargement countries, we consider this to be the wrong approach. They say that this is a differentiated approach, but it creates quite different categories of access to our labour market for people from these enlargement countries. It has favoured the spread of seasonal kidneys, harvest workers, hospitals and hospitals, and trainees. We do not think that this is a feasible path, but in principle we believe that only legal equality for people from the enlargement countries with people who are already on the labour market would only be a comprehensive attempt to make regular employment relationships out of a black labour market relationship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, I do not know why you are so upset; You're hidden, my colleague stupidly takes a look at you. We believe that the proposed regulation that you have proposed is not good, and that is why we would support equality in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16328	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16350	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The principle of free movement of workers is an essential pillar of the fundamental understanding of the European Union, and every citizen of the Union is in principle free to pursue employment in each EU Member State. This fundamental freedom, of course, offers opportunities and opportunities for development for the citizens of the European Union, but the impact on individual Member States must also be taken into account in this context. Austria is a small state and has no unlimited possibilities for entering the labour market, and in order to prevent negative effects on the labour market and economic location in Austria, it needs this instrument of transitional arrangements as provided for in the Foreign Employment Act. This also shows the calculations of the economic research institute. Already before EU enlargement in 2004, a transitional solution of a total of seven years was established in the Foreign Employment Act. It is now intended to apply analogously to the applicant countries Romania and Bulgaria. The EU accession of these two states is with 1. ==References====External links== Outstanding reforms could result in accession being postponed by one year. On the Austrian side, we support the accession of these two candidate countries, since there are already intensive economic contacts, but in the sense of the capacity to take up the Austrian labour market, this transitional arrangement needs to be defined here. It is a good law, which is here for decision-making, and we will, of course, agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16385	The next speaker is Mr Leutner. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16406	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already mentioned this: It is about including Romania and Bulgaria in the transitional periods on the labour market. We can agree to this law for our group because we believe that these transitional periods are essential in the expected development of the labour market. However, a serious problem - and we have referred to it in the Committee - has remained open, namely the sheer interdependence that has often been discussed here. It is about the fact that people who are quite normal workers are formally employed as entrepreneurs in Austria – while avoiding the Foreign Employment Act! There is a need for new legal measures, because the evidence of disinheritance must be carried out by the authorities, and only if it succeeds can it be established that illegal foreign employment is permitted. Ladies and gentlemen! To provide this evidence is therefore so difficult for the authorities that they need information about the actual relationship between employees and employees, and these do not give the parties any obvious reasons. We have made the proposal in the Committee to set a burden of proof here, i.e. a legal presumption of the existence of a worker's property if there are certain characteristics that are intended for a working relationship. I think that such a provision could be appropriate to combat new forms of law enforcement. We should be strong in favour of such a regulation in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16440	The last speaker was: Mr Walch. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16461	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I don't understand why you say you don't want the seven-year transitional period. You know exactly what this would mean for the labour market in Austria. If now low-cost workers work with the collective agreement in Austria, the economic location would be at risk. I just don't understand what interests you represent. – We represent the interests of employees, the economic location of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We protect the labour market with the seven-year transitional period as in the first EU enlargement, and that is the right way. Meanwhile, wages can rise in Bulgaria and Romania, as in the Czech Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, listen!; you have to talk to the workers at the base outside, they tell you something else. – We protect the labour market. We do not want to increase the number of unemployed in Austria, but rather to reduce it. We have enough work in Austria, and that is why we say: First, our people will used, and if we need key professionals then we can use others at any time. I am particularly pleased that Mr Leutner represents the interests of the workers. I would like the union union to do this more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16509	No one is reporting on this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1365 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – Mr Grünewald, are you for that or are you against it? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I'm sitting!]] You're sitting. – This is therefore decided by a majority vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also done by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority of the third reading. [[21:57:45]] 36. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1432, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time and the Labour Peace Act (1485 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16551	We're now going to 36. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Riepl has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His welcome time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16578	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are now discussing an amendment to the Labour Peace Act and the Working Time Act, especially for road transport workers. This change will make some of the provisions of labour law a reality, and I think that some criticism of this proposal is also acceptable. Mrs. Federal Minister! If it is said that the maximum working time for road transport staff can be extended up to 60 hours a week, I must say: That's not a small thing. You should think about whether this is the right way. If at the same time by law – and I stress, not because the collective contractual partners believe that this is useful – a division of breaks is allowed to take 15 minutes, then one asks: Where is the recovery value when the break can be reduced by law to 15 minutes for heavy-duty handlebars? One can no longer speak of a recovery value if, at the same time, a withdrawal of the extension of the rest period occurs at the interruption of the daily rest period. This is about a two-hour deletion to reduce the daily rest period when it is interrupted. That is, I believe, also a point of order. That is a point which is not aimed in the right direction and which actually leads to more burden on workers and not to a relief from workers. If, ladies and gentlemen, this law also redefines the night or night time, if we are in an Austrian federal law for the first time, that night only takes place from 0.00 a.m. to 4 p.m., not before and not afterwards, then I ask those who are dealing with health issues in the Austrian People's Party, for example, Mrs Rasinger, which they say suddenly to vote in a law today, where it is defined that the night has only four hours left. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think that a new night definition is being introduced for a professional group which is subject to special burdens, which are particularly important for road safety, which can only be rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, I have asked several experts, including employees of your house, the Chamber of Commerce, when the night begins and ends, but no one of your employees has told me that it begins at 0.00 and ends at 4:00. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] So that's the bar of any reality you decide here today. This can only be to the advantage of the economy and to the detriment of the people working in road transport. Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of the health status of handlebars is in no way guaranteed with this novelle. An increase in road safety, as far as drivers are concerned, is also not guaranteed by this amendment. In addition, we have a situation where more and more independent rulers are working in works contracts or on a contractual basis, and there is no or not yet the working time law and the labour rest law, because there is not an immediate implementation of an appropriate EU directive, which only makes it mandatory in 2009. I think that these are overall reasons enough not to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16661	Mr Walch is now speaking. His speaking time is also 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the address of Mr Riepl: Who makes the laws in the EU? Aren't your colleagues there too? How did they vote there? This is an EU Customisation Act! Don't trade unionists sit there? Why don't you go to them and tell them: Friends, you should represent Austria!? – That’s the first time you’re already practicing criticism. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one more thing. Please read this request carefully! It states that the steering time can be extended – but through the collective agreement and an operating agreement. It's inside, isn't it? There are all possibilities open. The employer will not go here and say: Because it's so funny, work so much!, he also has to pay. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, you should not just go here and practice criticism. We know that it is so on the labour market these days that, when work is there, you have to stop working. [[Abg. Riepl: Work around the clock!]] But in this draft law, it is precisely what times one must keep, how long rest periods last. What I particularly like about this draft is that the labour inspectorate detects what has happened in the event of violation, and the violation is considered to have been committed in the place where it was found. It used to be like this – I have many contacts with the labour inspector and therefore I know that –: If a company from an EU country worked here and I made an advertisement there, then I never got my day back. But if this happens at the scene of the crime, then the effect. That's why I'd ask you: Think about it again! In the interests of the social partners, the collective parties are negotiating. Your colleagues are once again negotiating whether this is being extended or not. I think that's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16740	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16761	Mr Walch has just presented us with a rather sad chapter, namely the simple milkmaid bill: You should be satisfied if you get more paid for 80 hours of work than for 40 hours of work. [[Abg. Walch: I didn't say that!]] This may be already, but it is not only about the money that the individual workers are to receive, but it is here, Mr Walch – if that should be completely new to you; I can even imagine that – also about road safety. It is about road safety, which is no longer guaranteed on European roads. Dear colleague Walch, once you walk through the APA reports of a week or two weeks, you will see that road traffic uncertainties are often caused not only by the bad rolling material, but also by overtired handlebars. Quite clearly, because it is still very important in the transport area that people are allowed to drive the maximum. We think that this is wrong and inappropriate, not only for those concerned, the drivers and the drivers, but also for those who can catch it when a truck gets into somewhere when an overtired handlebar in a tunnel – and we had built a few times in recent years – is an accident. Then, Mr Walch, I'd like to listen to your speech here, if you say, Yeah, we didn't think of that, but it's great, because he's got more money anyway! Now he's going to stop and some others with him too! – It can't be! What is available to us, Mr Walch, is the implementation of an EU directive at the lowest national level. Especially in this high house I have heard very often: We are proud of the fact that we have much better European directives and a higher national regulatory area and needs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Yes, I know that Mr Mitterlehner does not want that, perhaps the EU directives are already too high. As a result, we are in the situation that the night now only lasts more from 0.00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., although everyone and everyone knows it lasts longer, and although everyone and everyone knows that night work does not only take place between 0.00 a.m. and 44.00 p.m. We now have worse breaks, worse working rest, worse night work arrangements – and yet there are colleagues like Mr Walch who say: This is actually a super-implementation! - Good night, colleague Walch!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16814	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16835	Mr President. Minister! Of course, this is an EU adjustment. One thing I must say to you, Mr Commissioner: We are active in international transport and, of course, the time schedule applies in every country in the same way. This does not mean that it is a low-level implementation, but it is exactly the implementation that has been agreed upon and that applies to Europe as a whole. For the first time, foreign drivers who drive in Austria can also be punished. You said it was 60 hours. That's not true either, because it's a maximum of 60 hours. We have a calculation period. Within six weeks, the maximum time of use must not exceed 48 hours. That means you can drive 60 hours in a single week, but you have to give spare rest times. [[Abg. Oils: After that's a comfort!]] However, I really see a problem, and it is true that this EU directive should not be regulated in terms of labour and social law, but in road transport regulations. Why? Because of course an independent handlebar is not included. There is a second problem in Austria: On the basis of a bartenstein decree, an independent farmer in Austria is not allowed to drive, and that is why we have an inequality of competition, because in Holland, for example, or in other EU countries, it is permitted to drive itself. I believe that this should be heard and regulated in the road traffic regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16873	The last speaker was: Mr Spindelberger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16894	Mr Walch, I would be right if you didn't say anywhere in the public that you're the works councillor and that, as you claim here, you represent employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walch.]] I'm just saying, Read – think – talk! These are your sayings. I think you are not at all aware of what is inside of this whole bill of law or of this change in the law on working time and the labour rest law. For me, this already means going to the borders of political negligence, because this is a worrying step back in the field of working time law – and for me even a break of EU law, for it is expressly contained in the EU directive, which must not lead to a deterioration in the level of protection of workers. But what happens to this change? Not in one, not in two, but in many points, the existing regulations that we have are getting worse. And this is not in the interests of those you should also represent as the works council, namely those who sit behind the steering wheel of the truck. This does not serve the purpose of road safety, as Mr Oellinger has already said, and that is to reject the worst. It really can't be that we extend the maximum working time to 60 hours. Because Mr Wattaul said that we had a calculation period and it was only 48 hours anyway, I must say to him: But if in 59. An hour happens, it's more than bad. You should consider this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wattaul: Should we now make a ban on work?]] If we now limit night work to 0.00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and decide on deterioration in rest periods and rest periods, I have to say: There you are abandoned from all good spirits. How can you agree to such a change? All studies of the occupational physicians... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walch.]] Listen to me so you can understand, dear Mr Walch! – All occupational physicians tell us that between 10 p.m. and 05.00 p.m., the concentration problems are the biggest and the performance is falling enormously. That's exactly what we're changing with those who are driving the rolling bombs on the road?- Oh, my God! This is more than a negligent discussion of this problem. Because you said, Mr Walch, that everything could be negotiated by the social partners anyway, I must say to you: Read the passus where this change of law also allows the social partners to bring this flexibility into line with health protection measures. This forced change makes it clear once again – and this has also been expressed by the responsible Minister of Labour in the Committee – that the rights of workers are being trampled on. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16943	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1485 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this draft, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[22:12:49]] 37. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1349, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insolvency Reimbursement Act (1487, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e16992	We'll get to 37. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speech comes from Mr Schopf. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17022	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17043	Please pay a little attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17064	This government template deals with the revision of the Insolvency Reimbursement Act. The reason for this innovation is – how can it be different? – a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of 13 March. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! The consequences of this decision are that in the future there will be the possibility of recalculation for the years 2000 to 2003. A total of 40 undertakings may benefit from this recalculation. If we look closely at the figures of employees in these companies, it can be found that some 4,000 colleagues are affected by this recalculation, since these companies have already submitted applications. This is a total of €1.1 million. This means, in concrete terms, a sum of € 245 for the employee and the employee in question, including interest for this period. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to use this opportunity to underline and clarify the importance and importance of this fund. [[Call the ÖVP:AMAG!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Is the AMAG Foundation also inside?]] Unfortunately, many workers are often affected by insolvency. It said again yesterday – and this is very interesting – Vice-chanc Gorbach that there were almost 36 000 new business start-ups last year. That's right! However, he did not say that last year alone we had over 33,000 colleagues who had made a request to the Fund that wages, salaries, special payments, overtimes, compensation for redundancies et cetera be paid. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The AMAG employees have also submitted an application?]] If you look at the sums, ladies and gentlemen, then you can see that it alone last year... [[Abg. May. Molterer: But the AMAG employees have nothing to talk about!]] Mr. Molterer, listen to me, please. – Also in the AMAG we fight for a good, for an Austrian solution. That's the difference with you! If it had happened after you, the AMAG would have been a long time ago – You know exactly where.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17143	Mr Wöginger and Mr Kainz: Calls not standing, but only from your own place! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17167	I would like to thank the employees of IAF Service GmbH – that is the GmbH, which is responsible for the settlement, for the execution, for the payout. It's us in the in recent months, in recent years, the first payment has always been made after more than six weeks and the entire file has always been completed after four months. I think it's worth a special thank you to the employees there.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17200	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17221	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schopf, the employers feed on the insolvency compensation fund, and this money, which all employers pay, will be paid open wages if a company goes into bankruptcy or compensation. If too much has been paid in there, I believe the payer is entitled to get her money back. I would also like to see our contribution, which went into the Caribbean, paid back to us by the union union. That would be just.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17248	The last word on this point is from Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17270	After Mr Walch's valuable contribution, I find that difficult. Nevertheless, two comments. First note: This is a correction that has become necessary after a Constitutional Court judgment – a Constitutional Court judgment – already again. Second note: I would like to ask, Mr Walch, that we also regulate the problem of free servants, who are currently not covered by insolvency compensation, and that you are also willing by the government parties to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17306	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and its title and receipt in 1349 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. The draft law was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign in this regard. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[22:18:56]] 38. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 820/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Heidrun Silhavy, Maximilian Walch, Karl Ollinger, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Notary Insurance Act 1972 (12. Novelle to the NVG 1972) (1479 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17369	We're coming to 38. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is started by Mr Dr Fassleven. He wishes a three-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17397	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The notaries are undoubtedly among the most prestigious professions in Austria. The basis for this is a good training, a high level of expertise, conscience in the daily course of work, particularly high trustworthiness, credibility and sense of responsibility. That is exactly what is happening in this draft pension scheme, which was essentially drawn up by the Office and which provides for a minimum pension to be guaranteed in advance and for the higher settlement times, a higher retirement age and a higher pension age. We are pleased that this high level of responsibility is also borne by you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, because you are indirectly also recognizing the accuracy of our pension reform in general and expressing that we cannot ultimately say no in these principles. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. He was good!]] – We thank you for this attitude of opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17437	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17459	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Fassleven, we have already discussed this subject in detail in the Committee, but since not all the ladies and gentlemen of the House are taking part in the Committee, perhaps a few points: Notary insurance is excluded from pension harmonisation. – The notaries have their own system. They also pay for this system themselves – there is no budget resources in it – and it is a different system from the ASVG-pension system. I can remind you: There is still a basic amount in the emergency insurance system, there is an increase per insurance month, that is to the extent of €2.38, and there is also the additional pension. The changes you have referred to, Dr. Fassleven, are only intended for this additional benefit. You mentioned it yourself: In contrast to the ASVG, there is a minimum pension for direct pensions, which is €2 253. – Compare this with a normal ASVG-pension! It is therefore not an indirect confirmation of your insidious and still unfair pension reduction action, but it is a measure based on a completely different system and also on decisions taken by self-government. – I would like to stress now that we also take note of democratic decisions. You also know that these measures are necessary because the Constitutional Court has repealed provisions. So I would like to stress once again: We would be glad if we had such a minimum guarantee and a minimum pension at this level in the ASVG and if the people insured by ASVG were not affected by unemployment, so if they also had these conditions. We agree because we are serious and we think it is serious, but we did not make it easy, because we had constitutional concerns. We have even asked for a Constitutional Opinion and have received such an opinion from two constitutional lawyers, which has finally enabled us to agree. Let's say it again. We have not made it easy, but I am against your comparison and I believe that the claim is absolutely unscrupulous – that is, against better knowledge! This may be possible in politics, but I think that if you talk about social policy in a serious way, you should also recognize these approaches – and also that we probably appreciate and honor the democratic principle of self-government differently than your group does in this House. I regret that. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Oh! Oh! Oh!]] – Well, we need to look at just a few examples of where you turned everything around with simple legislative changes at once. Mr Neugebauer, I do not want to touch you in open wounds – because I think or hope at least, it is open wounds in your sense of democracy – but it is different from us that we stand in and carry on the democratic decisions of self-government – even in times when we do not have to carry them. – I really want to stress this now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to see this seriousness at least in the debate here in the House. Once again, as I said: We are particularly pleased that the minimum pensions are guaranteed, and we would like to see us in other areas, such as the ASVG-pensions, including pensions at this level – that is, 2 200 € for direct pensions and 1 500 € for widow's pension, since I do not need to tell every social politician among you what that means! – could speak. [[Abg. Gahr: What are new?]] – There are new things when you finally come to realize that your pension reduction measures are unfair and unfair. But I hope and assume that this will not be the case, but the voters will give you the answer to your policy, which was unsocial. [[Abg. Gahr: What are new?]] We are in favour of a fair, honest policy, and we also respect self-government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17537	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17558	My previous speakers have already explained a lot. I can therefore make it very briefly: We also stand to the high level of responsibility of the notaries and, I would like to add, to the joy of the activity. The population in Austria can happily appreciate that the long-term experience of the notaries is so long available and the gradual increase in the standard pension age from 65 to 70 years was the wish of the Notarial Chamber. I think this is also an experience in the firm: One can bring the experience further for the firm, and finally the clients also benefit from this great experience. I think it should be taken into account that this has been done in this form at the express request of the Notarial Chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17598	Mr Oellinger is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17620	Please don't call, or it'll take longer! I can do it on and for myself very briefly: The leaping points why we agree to this law... – Ah, now it is getting longer, colleague Molterer! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The only reason is because none of the Greens are there anymore!]] The starting points are: Firstly, the principle of self-administration is respected, and secondly, it is a reform which shows that the payment procedure can continue to be maintained and that very high pensions can also be guaranteed in the payment procedure. Now, please don't come to me that this is just because they have to work up to 70 now, because the point is: The lifetime and contribution times of notaries are no longer than those of other professional groups. – There are shorter contribution times. The essential thing is: The charging procedure remains, and a reform can be made within the charging procedure. There is no need to avoid the capitalisation process, Mr President. It is much less appropriate to establish a future security than the charging procedure. You could also see this if you had a pension fund scheme – but you didn't have it – or if you would have participated in a pension fund scheme here. Then you could see for yourself how well or how badly the pension funds balance and how little you get from a pension fund. - Everyone who is there knows that. So: The capital coverage process is not particularly good, the charging process is very good and very future-oriented. [[Abg. May. Molterer: If you pay for what you pay for in the payment process at the pensionistsion funds, it looks different!]] – This proves the new regulation for the notaries, and therefore – and only for this reason! – we agree with this new regulation: because the notaries have also regulated it themselves – in the context of self-management.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17670	Mr Dobnigg is speaking to us now. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17691	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been pointed out several times and mentioned that the Constitutional Court has also repealed provisions of the Notary Insurance Act as unconstitutional. Therefore, the calculation of supplementary pensions, the amount of the pension allowance or the transitional provisions in this respect must be re-regulated today, among other things. The SPÖ has held very many and very intensive discussions with representatives of emergency insurance, as well as representatives of pensioners. In addition, initial constitutional concerns could also be resolved through the collection of several opinions, and therefore the SPÖ will also agree to this amendment. However, this agreement is given specifically only for this insurance and does not mean that SPÖ agrees with the pension reduction reform of this Federal Government, because especially the ASVG insurers were very neglected or punished by this Federal Government – only the real pension reduction in the last four years was about 11 percent. [[Abg. Rädler: Where's that?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Let's wait for the ÖBG to cut everything!]] Just as the minimum pension is guaranteed in the case of the notaries, it should also be paid to the ASVG insured persons in the future. – It has been a long-standing demand of SPÖ. The former Minister of Social Affairs has already pointed out this and signalled approval, but unfortunately it has never happened. The SPÖ's demand will, of course, continue to go in this direction in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17739	The last speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17760	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today the ungrateful role of the last speaker comes to me, but don't worry, I won't use my speaking time. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you for the applause! My colleague Heidrun Silhavy and my colleague Karl Dobnigghagen have already stated in clear terms why we will agree to the now repaired Notary Insurance Act. However, I would like to make this clear once and for all: that the consent to this one law does not mean that the other horrors you have committed to the rest of the population by your pension laws really do not mean anything – but really nothing at all. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Mr Fassleven! Their self-willed interpretation would have almost provoked us to disagree, but we do not let ourselves be provoked. We're talking about the matter. We're talking about people. And that's why we're going to vote for it. Since everything has already been said and our voting behaviour has already been explained in detail, I would just like to wish you a nice home trip if you have one before you, and a nice holiday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs. Colleague! Relax well! A nice extended weekend and a beautiful evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17826	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will be omitted. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1479 of the Supplements. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This will be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – This too will be given unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:32:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00153_d7e17876	I am still announcing the introduction of motion 834/A (E) at today's meeting. Questions 4302/J to 4321/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 21. June 2006, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I wish everyone a good night! This meeting is closed.
