ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4526	The meeting was opened. – I welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House very warmly. The official protocols of 142, 143 and 144. Meeting of 29 and 30 May. On 1 March 2006, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies Dr. Mitterlehner, Mag. Rider, Schar and Dr. Bösch. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch took part in the meeting later.]] [[10:00:31]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4566	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘20 years after Chernobyl: The ÖVP Atom Sin register and the cornerstones of a necessary energy transition’ First of all, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek has spoken. I give the floor to her and may draw her attention to the fact that her speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4593	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Local records? [[Abg. Brosz placed on the speaker panel two signs looking like town panels. On the one hand, ‘atomic power’; a red beam as a diagonal, the word ‘atomic power’ goes through; on the other sign reads: ‘energy change’.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Are the town boards?]] [[Call:Why not bilingual]] Yeah, they could be bilingual, too. They should also be bilingual, especially in Carinthia. On the topic of the current hour. – First of all, I would like to ask: Why is the Federal Chancellor not there, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of the Deputy Chancellor Gorbach significant) The future Federal Chancellor is here!]] He is ultimately responsible for anti-atomic policy and bears responsibility for the line of the Austrian EU Presidency in anti-atomic policy. He made big announcements last autumn. He has announced several times that there will be initiatives in the field of anti-atomic policy in Austria, in concrete terms an exit initiative from the Euratom Treaty. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Ask us!]] Why is the Federal Chancellor always not there when, for days, a very, very detailed discussion on a subject, namely, the anti-atomic policy of Austria, when many questions are discussed in the public and when it becomes dissatisfactionable? But this is symptomatic: Whenever it gets serious, when it gets brittle, the Federal Chancellor isn't there – or he's silent. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In recent days, ÖVP politicians have claimed that Austria is still on anti-atomic course. Unfortunately, the facts speak a completely different language – a completely different language! – and we must now, towards the end of the Austrian EU Presidency and around the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster on 26 May. Unfortunately, April 1986, we note that under the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU, the European Union is much more at nuclear level than it was a few months ago. Key decisions that could have been taken in these months and weeks towards the exit from the peaceful use of nuclear power have not been followed by the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU. On the contrary: The European Union is once again full of nuclear energy – there is some evidence – and this is a witness of poverty for our Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Not enough by the fact that there are members of the ÖVP who have repeatedly voted in favour of nuclear energy in the European Parliament – and there are some evidence for this – the ministers of this Federal Government have also acted per atom in the last few days in a substantial way, acting against the will of the Austrian population. I can tell you this right now, Minister of the Environment – I do not know if you can even say "environmental ministers". The competent Minister for Research for the Research Programme in the European Union, Minister Gehrer, has indeed called an increase in EU nuclear research “sensational”. In fact, it claims that research into new reactor systems, in new generation of reactors, into so-called reactor generation IV, is a progress that is only about additional safety. And you're still trying to put that up as positive with any numbers. The fact is that under the Austrian Presidency, a long-term debate will be concluded, namely the Research Framework Programme, with the result that for nuclear research the threefold of what has happened in the last research programme will be spent. This is, I believe, not only against the will of the Austrian population, but you have obviously also forgotten that there is a genuine national Council decision which explicitly obliges the Federal Government to do so – I emphasize: explicitly committed to it! – reduce nuclear research and increase investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency. They deliberately act against a sincere decision of this House. How am I supposed to describe this as a pro-atom course of the ÖVP? – I don’t think of any other name. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister must be responsible for this research programme. If you look at the numbers, the dry numbers, again, then you can see: The total research volume has been reduced, even significantly, by €20 billion. That's a lamentable thing. But despite this reduction in the total research volume, the resources for nuclear research are increased, tripled, now the sevenfold of what the funds make for renewable energy research is incomprehensible. That's what I'm asking you, Minister: How can you justify that? There is no justification for that! You know that we have been discussing this issue in this House for years now, that we have been warning against accepting such a programme for years. However, Minister Gehrer calls it “sensational”, and I assume that this means that the Austrian Presidency will take note of this tripartite proposal and will not act against it. And this is a new swivel of the ÖVP towards per atom! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to you, Minister for the Environment: There is also a national Council decision which has been taken here in this House by a large majority, particularly since the 11th century. In September 2001, a new spirit opened up throughout the discussion on the safety of nuclear power plants, namely the issue of the terrorist security of nuclear power plants and old nuclear power plants, in particular near the border. I think it was a new dimension for all those who have experienced this disaster, and if there are no consequences here, there may be a merger of two disasters, namely the Chernobyl disaster on 26 May. April 1986 and the terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers in New York with thousands of deaths we had to complain about. As a result of this new dimension of threat, there have been studies. Throughout Europe, it has been examined whether nuclear power plants can be protected from terrorist attacks, and in the Austrian National Council the task has been given to you, you may be making an excuse at European level, a very clear, clear lead, namely, towards the review of European nuclear power plants, the European nuclear installations for terrorist security, and you may then be able to make yourself strong for closure initiatives in the installations where there is no protection mechanisms, such as flight ban zones. – To this day have You ignore this National Council decision to 100 percent! I am not aware of any initiative where you would have perceived this great danger, this new dimension of security, of security policy, even for the Austrian population in any form! I am not aware of any of these initiatives, and I would be pleased if you could lose two or three sets of them today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most dangerous facilities are near airports, the oldest facilities, especially Isar, are a few minutes away from Munich airport. In the event of such an attack, it would be possible that within an hour and a half an hour a amount of radioactivity would enter the environment, which is a multiple of what has been released in Chernobyl. And Chernobyl – only for memory – has released radioactivity to an extent that until then was unimaginable, namely the 200-fold of the atomic bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This means that a terrorist attack on such plants would release a 400 subject, a 600 subject, a 800 subject, a 1,000 subject of the atomic bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. To ignore this potential of danger completely, Mr Environment Minister, not to submit a single report to the National Council, which you have done in recent years to make the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union fail to ignore it completely, I cannot help but mean a swirling of the ÖVP towards per atom. I would like to give you a third example, and that is particularly sad. It doesn't make any sense to insist in Austria again and again: We are against nuclear power plants, but those who are consistent with nuclear energy must act consistently for renewable energy sources, for the energy transition, for energy efficiency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are actually so far now that you want to destroy a well-functioning law that in Austria promotes eco-power, renewable energies well. Maybe just a little note: It is time and again about the transfer of the windwheels. Compared to nuclear energy, this is a fuel! It is a minimum of what is spent on public subsidies in all European countries on nuclear energy. To what you complain here as a transfer of the eco-power, it is to be said: If it is really serious for you to fight against the exploitation of nuclear power plants, then you have to keep the eco-power law alive, so to speak, and may not, as planned, destroy it de facto in May. In fact, they intend to destroy a functioning promotion in the field of renewable energy with a decision in one of the next national Council meetings, and this undermines any credibility in questions of anti-atom, energy transition and exit from peaceful use of nuclear energy and is a third proof that it is not serious for you to have done everything we can to create the exit from nuclear energy in Europe on a day like today, where the victims of the Chernobyl disaster should actually be remembered.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4754	The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and Water Industry, Mr Dipl.-Ing, spoke on a preliminary opinion. Pröll. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! On the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster – this day is the year of the 20th century. It is time – is actually not time to make debt allocations, but it is time to remember them – and I was recently with the President and with a high-level delegation from the European Union in Kiev – who have been victims of this disaster. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is: ==References== The anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster also underlines once again what we have done by the government in all the formations up to date and will continue to do in the future, namely the danger and, finally, the risks of nuclear energy not managed with 100% certainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Chernobyl has shown impressively – unfortunately – that human failure can also counter-carry out the best technological conditions that one has come up with. And we also responded. I would like to say to you, Mrs Glavischnig, that you said that the anti-atomic policy failed and whatever, and that you tried to put it down with examples – it has not really succeeded – to mention and show some examples where we have actually acted consistently on the part of the government. I'm starting to deal with the Chernobyl crisis. What people need most is protection in recent years and also in the coming years. As part of humanitarian aid alone, we have spent €7.5 million as a contribution to the Chernobyl fund, to the stabilisation of the sarcophage, and we will continue to help in the future when it comes to tackling this source of radiation. Ladies and gentlemen! We have signed – second – energy partnerships. It is too little to talk only about unilateral debt allocations – towards the energy economy and the nuclear industry – but it is also necessary to show the alternatives. We have done this – also during the Presidency of the Council and, for example, through energy partnerships with the countries concerned. I have also been able to talk to the Ukrainian President about the construction of a biomass plant in Slavutych, a city that was very hard to deal with but is still inhabited, where we want to put a clear sign that we are thinking of alternatives. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing has changed in our fundamental rejection of nuclear power as a non-sustainable form of energy in Austria, in Europe and beyond. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a step-maker function on the way to a nuclear energy-free energy supply. This is a laborious way, because you often forget that we have to move democratically with our philosophy in an international, European framework, and the famous “green lever” that is being turned on, so that everything is locked up, there is in reality – thank God! – not, but we have to advertise, bring in our positions – in Europe, internationally, and we do so with our criticisms. We are very intensive about the nuclear information agreements, the cross-border EIA procedures concerning the Espoo Convention, taking part in all processes, wherever we are invited by international treaties and have to take appropriate measures, especially in the area of border nuclear power plants, whose management, in terms of protecting the Austrian population, represents the greatest challenge for a responsible government policy. In any case, we have a different opinion. It is important to invest, plan, negotiate and act internationally – not from such a tragic event as that in Chernobyl in a small-cared way, or at least try to beat party-political capital. They have addressed Austria's commitment within the framework of the EU Presidency. . Maybe a brief comment on how this presidency can be understood. The Presidency of the European Union is not to be understood in such a way that as many national interests as possible can be spent in half a year, but rather to make progress towards the European discussion process in important policy areas. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not a national interest!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are very happy to take this responsibility seriously in order to give the right answers. ==References== January 2006 Initiatives in the form of a move towards the better biomass action plan, to alternative fuels, as in the European Union for decades. Within the framework of our EU Presidency, we have given the impetus to the European Union's biomass action plan, which has been adopted by the European Union's Biofuel Directive. And, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well – and you have forgotten this – that we will have a conference on Euratom Treaty in June 2006 together with the European Parliament, not least on the basis of the debates we had in the Environment Committee. What more should one do than force alternatives, put them on the agenda and decide to discuss the Euratom Treaty for the first time in this quality in Parliament with a hearing in June 2006 – on an important platform – in order to give the relevant answers here? If you address nuclear research in the framework programme with the new financial perspective and its discussions, ladies and gentlemen, I really ask you to discuss and look carefully: What is provided for in this framework programme? – The increase of the funds is almost complete in nuclear fusion research. You know that, of course, we are also very critical of nuclear fusion as a potential over the next few decades, but we will be very critical about this research process. Do you want to ban research? We want to accompany ITER's research critically, and, ladies and gentlemen, we will see that no means – and this is not foreseen – are put into term extension and the construction of new facilities in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a precautionary policy, and I am also glad that we are working together at ITER rather than in other parts of the world, because we have this control only if we can take the appropriate measures on the ground and assess the accompanying circumstances together. Thirdly, Mrs Glawischnig: Whatever you always forget is the question of management of the KKW Temelin. Without the European Union, without our clear procedure by the Austrian Federal Government, we could not have achieved the now existing safety standards in Temelin. You also know – and you mostly forget to say this – that in the European Union there is unanimity on most issues of nuclear power, and that is why – and this must be expressed openly – individual countries can always prevent developments. The milking process, the Brussels debate and the relevant decisions have only given us the opportunity to make Temelin as safe as possible – if we respect the national sovereignty of the individual Member States on the energy economy. We do this because we do not want a French energy supplier to start planning a nuclear power plant in Austria. We want to determine the future of energy in our country itself, and we want to help as much as possible that the other countries get out and force alternative energy sources accordingly. In Temelin – and this shows the process – we were able to achieve changes. You're not satisfied yet, but we won't let go. As early as August, the technicians, the experts will meet again and discuss the open security issues together. So you see from these many examples that, in all the formations, we are very stubborn and consistent in all our political responsibilities to protect the people of Austria, to protect the people of Europe, especially in the face of the present day, our anti-atomic policy – I can say this at least for the ÖVP and for the government; as it is in some other areas, I do not know – continue. In summary, it is said: Our goal is to get out of the peaceful use of nuclear energy in Europe. Our aim is to organise and influence the best safety standards for existing nuclear power plants in recognition of national sovereignty. And our aim is to close the nuclear reactors of old construction, as provided for in the accession treaties of the Member States of the European Union, and to continue to pursue them consistently. If research is renewed, then the processes for these new fields of research such as nuclear fusion should not be reversed, but the processes should be critically accompanied so that such a development as in nuclear policy and in the case of Chernobyl can no longer happen. We have no reason to get rid of our consistent anti-atomic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4869	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants of the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4893	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The terrible events in Chernobyl 20 years ago are still in memory or are now reminding us of us in a depressing way on the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. And it is only one thing in this memory, namely what we and what the ÖVP have said and represented over and over again: Nuclear energy is not a safe and sustainable form of energy generation – and we stay there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To say that is one thing, but of course you also have to show alternatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4917	May I not turn my back on the speaker! Mrs Stoisits, Mr Maier, Mrs Lunacek, please do not turn your back on the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e4936	Ladies and gentlemen, to say that is one thing, but you also have to offer alternatives. Therefore, in our energy policy, we are consistently focusing on hydropower, which we have abundantly, on the additional increased use of renewable energy sources such as biomass, biogas and the like, and – unfortunately again and again in the energy policy debate – above all in the future we are also increasing energy efficiency, which also means a savings in energy consumption. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are now discussing the issue of investment in nuclear research at European level, I must say that we should stick to the facts, Mrs Glawischnig! The fact is: Unfortunately, the majority of European states continue to rely on nuclear energy. Unfortunately! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true!]] We reaffirm a different attitude with our position, but the other states, unfortunately, do much different. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 12 plus 5 is 17! That's the majority of 25!]] That means our strategy must be differentiated. We must first, while maintaining our position in principle, look at the fact that those unsafe nuclear power plants abroad, especially in border countries that are not retrofitable, which enters security, will be closed as soon as possible. We must remain in the process and continue to try to ensure that we reach the end of the peaceful use of nuclear energy in those countries which currently have a different energy policy principle. In the meantime, we must insist on and impose, through European policy, on those countries which cannot present themselves as such, that everything is done in these countries to increase the safety of existing and further operated power plants. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mrs Glawischnig, you know as well as everyone else – you know it because you are dealing with it, even a little better –: Atomic energy is not equal to nuclear energy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can't count!]] If there are scientists who believe that, contrary to the nuclear fission, the fusion may lead to a form of energy supply that is safe and more interesting from efficiency, then I must say: [[New call for tender Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Abg. Elders: Maybe!]] In this case, it makes at least sense to invest in the exploration of this claim – with an open outcome – money. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: to put billions of tax money!]] Perhaps we will then find that this leads to an energy form that is useful and that is reasonable for people in terms of efficiency, or that we are particularly concerned about the fact that it is not within the framework of this research programme. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... lights up there and is called the sun!]] But you can only come up with research – and not with allegations, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But there are other alternatives!]] It's clear one thing, and we'll stick to it. We invest very strongly, massively and more than most other countries in the use of renewable energy within the framework of daily energy policy. The increase in these funds is almost exclusively due to the exploration of an alternative form in the nuclear energy field which some consider to be future-looking. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: What are the national goals?]] The rest of the funds will be invested in the increased security of existing power plants. And that is, I mean, responsible action in the sense of people in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Should I read it to you: new generation of reactors!]] What you do is to use the terrible event of Chernobyl only to frighten people in this country. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] This is not a responsible policy, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5120	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5142	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf, you already know that in a nuclear power plant everything is for safety, except for the fuel rods. All around these fire sticks are used for safety in front of these fuel rods. In this respect, a restriction of subsidies to nuclear power plant safety is in principle only the statement that one does not finance the fuel rods, but otherwise the entire financing is possible, and that is certainly not what you want to give publicly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Do you have an alternative in the countries that do not want to leave?]] 20 years ago, the most serious accident occurred in a nuclear power plant. Tens of thousands of people lost their lives, hundreds of thousands of their homes and millions of their faith in the mastery of technology and the safety of nuclear power plants. For 20 years, there has been a consensus in the Austrian society that everything must be done to lock up nuclear power plants and to promote other technologies in order to be able to replace them as well. This consensus exists not only in Austria but also across Europe in the population. This may be different from one country to the other, but Europe-wide is a clear majority for the exit from nuclear energy. That is why we are constantly renewing our demand for a Europe-wide vote on the exit from nuclear energy. Unfortunately, you always reject that. We want to enforce this vote, see it as an objective in order to actually achieve that Europe's exit from nuclear energy can take place. All parties ensure that they continue to stand for consensus in the fight against the peaceful use of nuclear energy and continue to fight against the operation of nuclear power plants. But other things happen. ==References====External links== A request was put to the vote in the European Parliament in November 1996 to end the subsidisation of the use of nuclear energy in a peaceful manner. This proposal aims to ensure that there are only subsidies for the safe reduction of nuclear power plants and for the disposal of nuclear waste. The ÖVP voted against this request, and due to the voting behaviour of the ÖVP, he did not receive a majority either. If the EIA had voted in favour of this proposal, there would have been a majority in favour. [[Abg. Großruck: Here we are very important!]] – But the chairman of the ÖVP Wolfgang Schüssel explains: The ÖVP continues to fight against nuclear power plants! ==References== The European Parliament voted in October 2000 on whether, in addition to nuclear power, renewable energy should also be subsidized and thus free competition. The ÖVP voted against free competition and continued to support nuclear energy only. – But the chairman of the ÖVP Wolfgang Schüssel explains: The ÖVP continues to fight against nuclear power plants! [[Abg. Grossruck:... Power plants in the Caribbean!]] In November 2001, Austria, represented by Wolfgang Schüssel, and the Czech Republic, represented by Prime Minister Zeman, agreed on the Melker Treaty. Wolfgang Schüssel then explained to us that Temelin would be more secure by the agreement, that the Melker Treaty would be part of the Accession Treaty and therefore also indictable, and Temelin would only go into the commercial, final operation if all safety concerns were removed. Today we learn that Austrian experts from the Federal Ministry of the Environment have found that Temelin did not become safer, more than 90 incidents also confirm that the Milker Treaty is not part of the Accession Treaty, and Wolfgang Schüssel himself says he is no longer indictable. Temelin went into permanent operation, although security concerns have not been removed, and the Austrian Federal Government has not even formally protested against it or in any other form. – But the chairman of the ÖVP Wolfgang Schüssel explains: The ÖVP continues to fight against nuclear power plants! ==References====External links== On 4 April, the Informal Competition Council, chaired by Austria, decided to triple the budget for Euratom and, at the same time, to reduce the amount of renewable energy resources compared with the Commission proposal of April 2005. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: There is no decision!]] The ÖVP minister and vice-president of the ÖVP Elisabeth Gehrer called this decision a sensational and very great success. – But the chairman of the ÖVP Wolfgang Schüssel explains: The ÖVP continues to fight against nuclear power plants! I mean, the Austrian population has earned more honesty, and Austria has also earned a change of course in nuclear policy – in autumn it is time for that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5247	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5269	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! 26. April 1986: So 20 years ago. Each of us knows exactly where he was, each of us remembers the time, each remembers how the people were affected by this disaster. I also remember working in Bulgaria and only two days later did my wife learn about this disaster. In Bulgaria two weeks later, two-liners informed the population of this disaster, even though Bulgaria itself was directly in this cloud. Each of us was affected because we could not believe that something like this could happen, each of us was affected by how it was handled, everyone is affected how it is handled today, and each of us is affected that there are still people who operate lobbyism for nuclear power plants. But to make this federal government responsible for making this kind of policy in Europe is not understandable to me. We in this House have broad consensus that we are against nuclear power, but we have different access. In connection with Euratom, and Mr Krainer, we have discussed it very carefully, we have discussed it for a long time. The difference in access is how we deal with it with security and this kind of support. The Federal Government has said that it is more important for us to invest in safety than to operate a policy that is outside and does not provide for the promotion of nuclear power plants. However, we also know that safety is not guaranteed, we know that certain countries are not prepared – and the Minister knows that – to lock nuclear power plants. We have also had different access to the Temelín question. We were all opposed to this power plant, but there was only one group at the time who demanded that the Czech Republic's admission into Europe also ensure that this dangerous nuclear power plant was locked up. We have called for a separate vote on this subject. That was my group, today's BZÖ and the Freedom Club at the time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Double-difference!]] We asked you to say: No, within Europe we will be better able to solve this problem, with discussions, with the willingness to help with the willingness to run the active exit. At present, there is a power plant that has been upgraded, and we have countries, very close to us, thinking about building new nuclear power plants. We have the most dangerous nuclear power plants on our border. We will also discuss this next time – we see this as a national matter – whether we should agree to the admission of countries if they do not lock their dangerous nuclear power plants [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They will have to consider whether the guarantee of security does not also need a certain pressure. I am against nuclear power plants, I am against nuclear power plants of internal conviction, and nobody, I believe, is in favour of this House. But to make this federal government responsible for the policy that is being made in Europe is far from being achieved. In the field of renewable energy, I know as a farmer and I know a few colleagues. Wood: We had bigger problems, just for wood we had bad prices. Today it is the other way round, today we have to think about our sawmills, because a lot of wood is sold abroad by us. Sacrifice: Everyone used to be happy when we picked it up, today we pay a lot of money if we want to use it. Every place is thinking about renewable energy. In Tyrol, everyone, whether poor or rich, receives 200 € per square meter of solar energy. This government stands for this kind of policy. My group has always been an environmental group, and you should finally support us in this work, then perhaps we would have more success and not just long discussions that do not bring about anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5311	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. She too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5333	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home in front of the television screens! [[The speaker placed on the speaker panel two village panels similar signs. On the one hand, “Atomkraft”, a red bar forms the diagonal; on the other sign reads: “Energiewende”.]] We all want a safe form of energy, we all don't want nuclear power – that's what you say, and that's what we're saying. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We do it too!]] We act in this sense, you act contrary. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only with taferls!]] Minister, I will prove this to you. [[Abg. Head: What do you mean by “acting ”? You have a strange idea of “acting ”!]] Mr Minister and Mr Kopf, you said you voted in favour of the Euratom programme. The Euratom programme provides for over €4 billion over the next seven years. This is a programme to finance the next generation of reactors. They spend Austrian money – in the past there were 114 million, in the future there are 140 million – for an unsafe nuclear power, for an unsafe energy form. That's what you do, and here you say the opposite. The problem is that in EU bodies, at European level, in the European Parliament and also in the Presidency, you do exactly the opposite of what you tell us here and the people at home in front of the television screens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Kopf, we have a majority among the EU Member States that are against nuclear power. Twelve have no nuclear power plants, five have decided to leave, and the total is 25. However, they claim that there is no majority in Europe. [[Abg. Head: What quorum do you need for a nuclear contract? You need the unanimity!]] Excuse me, most of Europe's countries do not have nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Head: Do not spread sand to people! That's not fair!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The unanimity argument you use can also be used against you. It is true that there is only unanimity at European level, but why is Austria not voting against, why is this Federal Government not voting against the fact that millions of euros, in sum of billions of euros – a doubling, a triple of the amounts – continue to go into research that promotes unsafe energy that brings an uncertain future for Austria, which poses a potential threat to the population? You know, the reactors that are still on the grid in Europe are two thirds of the Chernobyl type! Now we are commemorating this terrible disaster, and you are voting for the extension of Chernobyl type reactors. You vote for the increase of nuclear funds, you continue to be in favour of possible Temelín... – That's it. [[Abg. Head: That's not true! That's incredible! That's incredible!]] Read in the EU Protocol, check out, exactly with Temelín! – This is a good one, a very good one, Mr President. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: We were only against Temelín.]] I asked Mr Pröll what initiatives he is taking to ensure that the Milker Treaty is respected. You mentioned the Melker contract earlier, it is about moving forward the exit from Temelín in the Czech Republic or meeting the safety criteria. And the experts are still saying: The 28.5-metre stage is not safe. The steam pressure safety valves are defective. There are also shortcomings in the reactor pressure container. - That's fact. And you, Mr Minister, answer my parliamentary question – I can quote your question 3462/AB as follows: ‘The level of the previously achieved and taking into account the current activities (...) allows the conclusion that the qualification of safety-related components in Temelín is no longer an open security issue.’ That is what you are replying, Minister, in writing. And that's my problem. You always want to spread sand to the public because you say: Yeah, we're doing everything. – In reality, however, you are doing exactly the opposite. This is the enemy to your nuclear policy, which is also the hazard to your anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then admit that he is doing anti-atomic policy!]] I should like to stress once again that Austrian taxpayers do not serve to implement efficiency programmes, not to strengthen renewable energy sources, and not to drive more eco electricity in Austria and Europe. No, you use it for a new generation of reactors, for nuclear fusion, for an unsafe nuclear future. These are your actions, and you should be measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5501	Mr Grillitsch is now speaking to us for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5587	I am already for an energy turnaround, but not the way you do it, because you are constantly insecure people. [[Abg.Yes, the farmers are all for an energy change!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser removes the two Taferls from the speaker's desk and goes back to her place.]] We want to take Chernobyl as an occasion to remember the victim. We don't want to see children on the street anymore, that the kids can't play outside. I don't want to experience any more that we can't drive the animals to pasture. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's what we should remember. This should be the occasion for serious and credible discussion here of alternative strategies on nuclear energy, so that something like that no longer happens. That's why I'm appealing to you: Quit your uncertainty strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you: The ÖVP, the Austrian Federal Government and I, too, personally rely on a clear and consistent anti-atomic policy because we know that this is rightly expected of the population, because everything else is actually a mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where?]] We know: A change of energy without nuclear energy is possible, ladies and gentlemen. One of the key strategies in this context is, of course, the use of renewable energy sources, especially forcefully and exemplaryly in Austria. I do not think anyone is more professional, even at European level, to talk about the forced use of these renewable energy sources than Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where are you doing it?]] - We do the same. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has also done this with the Council, as there are clear objectives, Mrs Glawischnig. Take note of this at last! The numbers also speak for us: 21 percent share of renewable energy sources in Austria! We are third in the EU. These figures speak for a good policy of this Austrian government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This third item was a total consideration of renewable energy sources. In the field of biomass, we are even leading from an Austrian point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! A stronger generation of renewable energy sources should be sought in the most diverse areas of application: in the heat sector, in the fuel sector, in the biofuel regulation. Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for this! We have also set a higher target than Europe. The Eco electricity Act also gives us the opportunity, essentially three points, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, to put clearly in the foreground of a future strategy that also gives people safety, namely first of all independence in energy supply, security of supply in energy supply. Secondly, the use of these domestic potentials with new technologies. This will create jobs; this also demonstrates a study by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce: Some 34 000 new jobs are created by the forced use of renewable energy sources. The third important point is: We can also make a significant contribution to the protection of the environment. It is therefore quite simply a command of the hour to use these domestic potentials with these new technologies accordingly. The wood sector in Austria has already been addressed. In the wood industry, we only ensure 250 000 jobs, decentralised, through the value chain wood. By increasing the use of biomass we do so, for example, no longer through the drain from the saw to the paper industry, because we can use it thermally and energetically. We also need to think about strategies logistically so that the economic location of the paper and plate industry is not threatened. As good as we are already in the field of energy generation from biomass. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, a clear commitment: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes to strengthen the hydropower! Yes, to strengthen biomass, renewable energy sources, because they – hydropower and biomass – are the trump of future energy supply.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5688	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. She also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5709	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The nuclear policy of the Federal Government – to say anti-atomic policy that would be, I believe, too much – and in particular that of the ÖVP is a mourning game in four acts. First act: Imagine a thick stump, a bush full of promises, the chancellor bowl has also made here in Parliament and all have been broken! [[Abg. Grandruck: Caribbean palms are these!]] No matter whether it was about the indictability of the retrofitting of Temelín at the ECJ, whether it was about saying that before the commercial operation began in Temelín, there is of course a retrofit, or whether it was called, it is logical that Temelín is brought to a European security standard – nothing of this is the case! Everything – ‘lying’ is not allowed to say now – at least everything has not happened as it was promised here. The second act shows a European Parliament, in which ÖVP delegates have repeatedly and repeatedly, in total seven times, not voted as much as more than 80 percent of Austrians would wish for by their political representatives. The ÖVP has become sinful seven times and has voted against the revision of the EURATOM Treaty. It voted in favour of low-cost nuclear fission reactors; it voted against fair competition rules for alternative energy. Third act: an empty stage. There are no initiatives of this Presidency to the 7th. To bring the EU Framework Directive on Research into a direction that does not further promote the EURATOM Treaty, as it does, and where, with our tax money, research is being carried out for further nuclear power plants, as we do not want them, as it is supposed that everyone in this House does not want to do, as you say here, and also as they do not want over 80 percent of Austrians. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That would cost money again! Then criticize the advertising campaign! How you do it is wrong!]] That's the non-policy you're running! Fourth act: the final. A big question mark, because I lack any initiative, any perspective, any idea from you about how to look at a Europe-wide or a global exit from nuclear energy. I miss any Austrian initiative from you. It really does not exist, although there is a great need for energy supply in developing countries, for example. 1.6 billion people live on earth without electricity, 2.4 billion people use wood, agro-waste and fecals to heat or cook. There would be a lot of alternative energies, good energies, especially for developing countries, which could also be used well with our support. I am thinking, for example, of the sun, which seems very constant in most poor countries and would therefore also be very useful – whether it be for heat or electricity generation The sun – let me say that; it may sound a bit strange – is actually the democratic source of energy. The sun can't turn away from me, the sun can't break a company if I haven't paid my bill, with the sun no other country can extort any policy from me, and the sun is more democratic and evener than other sources of energy, because it's much less capital to beat. [[Abg. Wattaul: What does this have to do with the BAWAG?]] The use of solar energy, especially in the countries of the Third World, would also have much less ecological and social consequences for these countries. We know that wherever oil is promoted in poor countries, there are too many social and environmental fractions. Unfortunately, the examples such as Nigeria and Ecuador show us almost every day, because there are serious social conflicts there because of oil production. I think it must finally be time to get out of this global pyromania, somehow end the addiction for oil and also the dependence on fossil raw materials. We have the opportunity to do so. We Social Democrats also have a vision for this: the vision of a nuclear-free world. But I mean, that truly credible and meaningful impulses to this vision are certainly only possible in a post-cushion era. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5784	The next speaker is Mr Walch. His speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5806	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the address of the opposition: I think this issue is really too serious to be pooled and further fears to the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think there is no one in this House who stands for nuclear policy, for new power plants. On the contrary: Every Member of Parliament is probably committed to improving or decommissioning existing nuclear power plants. 20 years ago, the Chernobyl disaster. Whoever watched TV on Monday, ORF 2, could see a look back over the last 20 years. How does it look now in Chernobyl? It's a dead city. What happened there? 350,000 people were evacuated from this city. It was only days after that that they were told what had really happened. They said they had to leave Chernobyl for only three days and then come back. Everyone who has seen this show – I have to say – has run cold over the back. Such a show actually belongs to all the politicians in Europe who are for nuclear energy, in order to see what catastrophe happened there, the suffering there. We are in Austria – thank God! – a pioneer against nuclear power. Under a SPÖ government the AKW Zwentendorf was built. Thank God this did not go into operation after the referendum. When I look at the Czech Republic as Mühlviertler MP, think of the Temelín AKW, I have to practice some criticism specifically of the government team that was in Austria at that time at the time when the construction of Temelín was in the 1980s. I didn't hear anything, there were no protests and questions: What are you doing? Why are you building that? We're against it. There was silence in the forest! Only when we came to Upper Austria and said that we are against this power plant, which is being built there, was a popular survey carried out. Almost a million people signed. We have held many protests at the border in Wolowitz. I think I was there at 100 demonstrations. Our Federal Minister Ursula Haubner was still Environment Councillor in Upper Austria. Col. Anschober of the Greens is standing next to me at the border in Wolowitz and has announced a great deal: I have such good contacts with the Czech Republic and with the Czech politicians. If I had anything to talk about as the Environment Council, this power plant would have been shut down for a long time or the safety measures would have been implemented. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Where were the Greens?]] Now Mr Anschober has been in Upper Austria for over a year. Suddenly, these connections are broken down, and suddenly he doesn't have any friends in the Czech Republic anymore – except that he always lets us or our government colleagues in Vienna judge: Do something! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] Why isn't he doing anything? Why doesn't he do anything? I wonder. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And what bothers me most – and since my request to Minister for the Environment Pröll also: Please, now with the EU Presidency, Austria has the opportunity to do everything to put pressure on Czech politicians to ensure that the security measures at the Temelín AKW are finally observed or the milk process is implemented. This must be especially enforced for the security of the Austrian population! I also do not understand that the Czech politicians and the Czechs do not implement these measures, because they are the first to catch it if a disaster were to happen. So – at the address of the Greens –: Do not sue and whirl, but act as we do!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5874	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. She's got 5 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5895	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners! [[The speaker put two green-edged Taferln with the words “Atomkraft”, which is red-stretched, and “Energiewende” in front of the speaker’s desk.]] Let me start with a list of places in Europe: Grafenrheinfeld, Gundremmingen, Isar, Neckarwestheim, Fessenheim, Beznau, Gösgen, Leibstadt, Mühleberg, the end camp Benken in Switzerland, Bohunice, Mochovce, Krško, Dukovany and Paks. Austria is surrounded by nuclear power plants, some of which are already very outdated. And what we are experiencing from this federal government is that there is no protection and no disaster plans against terrorist attacks. [[Abg. Wattaul: Not at all! You're against the interceptors! They were against it!]] They say the Greens have never done anything. – That’s not true! What was 1978? Who protested against Zwentendorf? You don't! I never saw you. Never – neither in Vienna at Karlsplatz nor in Zwentendorf in front of the nuclear power station! What was 1986? The Greens have come to Parliament and have run an unprecedented campaign against nuclear power plants. At the time, it was not yet certain whether Zwentendorf would not be locked up. But: Instead of protecting the Austrian population now, an additional 123 million taxpayers are put into nuclear research – brand! –: in nuclear research! Not in the energy transition, not in renewable energy, no: in nuclear research. And that in the next six years. Who's insecure here? – You’re insecure people by not doing anything! [[Abg. Wattaul: You!]] There are no common disaster prevention plans, and we know that all the disasters that we have ever considered have actually occurred. Now I'm telling you something so that the accusation doesn't come back, we're not doing anything. . We have been making proposals for a long time, and we have been presenting them in recent times, which would have to do what this Federal Government would have to do if it did something and did not sleep. There are four steps that are absolutely necessary: Step one: The Austrian Federal Government is putting the topic of nuclear security on the political agenda of the European Council in June 2006 – not a hearing in Parliament; on the political agenda! That's where she belongs! And the aim is to draw up a European directive on nuclear and terrorist security by Council decision. Step two: The advance of Austria at the UN and at the IAEA with the aim of updating the Nuclear Safety Convention with particular reference to the terrorist threat of nuclear installations. – All of this is not happening! The third step: The formation of a state alliance has already been mentioned. There are many more states that are against the use of nuclear energy – against the so-called peaceful use that is not at all available – than those that are now using nuclear energy. Why has there not been a state alliance under the Austrian Presidency for a long time – we also have the moral strength to cause it? And it could also be achieved by those five other states that have already decided to leave the country, and we hope that it will remain because the sister party of the ÖVP in the Federal Republic of Germany advises the exit from the exit. Fourth step: the effect of increasing the level of operator liability to the potential level of damage. – We never talk about who actually carried the costs of Chernobyl and still carries, even in financial terms, not only in health. The health consequences are no longer good with money! The costs are largely unknown and will be silenced. The amount of liability is to be increased to the level of foreseeable damage due to releases due to terrorist attacks, because then we look at how many new nuclear power stations are built when these costs grow at astronomical heights. And in addition to this, a consistent anti-atomic policy at all levels: a veto in the Research Council against the planned massive increase in EU nuclear research resources, an initiative for the reform of the EURATOM Treaty and against the efforts of the nuclear industry to put renewable energies and nuclear power at one level under the cover of climate protection – this is particularly objectionable! The nuclear power with the renewable energies due to a “low emission”, which has now been signed or supported by Federal Chancellor Schüssel,...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e5981	So the bell was so abrupt, Mrs. Colleague, but the 5 minutes were over. [[Abg. Walch: The Taferln away!]] No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. I call on Parliament's staff to remove these Taferls from the speaker's desk. Thank you, Mrs Moser. [[11:03:35]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6010	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6395	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written question (4165/J) put to the Federal Chancellor on the agenda be dealt with urgently until the last second. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6419	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of this House are Magistrate. Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner asked the Committee on Science and Research to report on the opposition of the Federal Council of 21 December. of 1 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 1 April 2006. March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the University Law 2002 a period of time until 19. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, this brief debate will take place following the urgent debate. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. The Members of Parliament also have power. In the light of the above, the Court of First Instance has held that, in the event of a breach of the principle of equal treatment of men and women, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Union. of 2 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 2 April 2006. March 2006 concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Legal Relations of Austrian Industrial Holding Stock Corporation and the Post and Telecom participation management company is amended (ÖIAG Law 2000), a period of until 19. ==References== A debate was not required. The current request will therefore be put to the vote in accordance with the rules of procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, i.e. at the end of the agenda. I would also like to say that the Members of this House are allowed to do so. Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner requested that the Legal Affairs Committee report on the opposition of the Federal Council of 21 December. of 29 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 29 April 2006. March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the Takeover Act, the Commercial Code, the Stock Exchange Act, the Conversion Act and the Splitting Act and adopting a Federal Act on the Exclusion of Minorities (Acquisition Act 2006), a deadline until 19 March 2006. ==References== In view of the fact that no debate has been requested here too, the motion in question will be put to the vote in accordance with our Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6469	The debate on points 2 and 3, 8 and 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. We are going into the agenda now adopted. On item 1 of the agenda is a request made by five Members according to § 81 para. 1 GOG to hold a debate on the declaration by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Ursula Plassnik, at the same time. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6503	The President-in-Office of the Council reached consensus on the design and duration of the debate on the whole agenda. Accordingly, a day-block period of 9 “Vienna hours” including the debate on the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs’ declaration was held in accordance with § 19 para. 2 agreed on the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, free parliament club 108 minutes, Green 117 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the declaration and debate of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for the period from around 11.15 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.: the first launch of the President of the National Council with 5 minutes, the further declaration by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs with 15 minutes and, finally, one speech per political group with 15 minutes. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. [[11:08:34]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on: ‘50 years of Austria’s membership of the Council of Europe’
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6551	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will take place, as already announced. Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6578	Ladies and gentlemen! We're on the 50th day today. Return of Austria's accession to the Council of Europe. That was an important step. And at this point I welcome the former Foreign Ministers, representatives of the Council of Europe, diplomats, officials – at the head of our former Federal President Dr Kurt Waldheim and the former Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Dr. Walter Schwimmer. Welcome to the Hohe Haus! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The debate and the statement of the Federal Minister is taking place today on the basis of a suggestion made by Dr Michael Spindelegger and Dr. h.c. Peter Schieder. It is important to know that the Council of Europe is the cradle of European integration. All European institutions, starting from the European Economic Community through the EFTA to the European Union today, originate from the cradle of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe was founded at the time as the protection of our liberalised parliamentary democracy based on the social market economy, as a bulwark against insecurity, especially in the face of the threat of Communism. The Council of Europe has developed into an irreplaceable protection of human rights. Human rights have become part of European, international public order through the Council of Europe's activities. The protection of human rights is part of the most crucial part of the European model of life, which we know best to defend against everyone else. A few know that the European flag behind me was the flag of the Council of Europe as a symbol of European unification. And much less know that the European anthem we sing after the German anthem is a hymn that an Austrian Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Dr. Lujo Toncić-Sorinj, has proposed and has been implemented after notes by Herbert von Karajan. Austria has therefore always expressed a great interest in this Council of Europe, and there have been three Secretary-Generals who have served the Council of Europe and have come out of the ranks of this Parliament: It was Lujo Toncić-Sorinj, it was Franz Karasek, it was Walter Schwimmer. And we had two presidents in the highest parliamentary body in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly, and the Country as well as the Secretary-General have represented with dignity: It was the unforgettable Karl Czernetz, and it was this Dr. h.c. Peter Schieder. I would like to thank all those who are sitting in the gallery, the Members who have gone to Strasbourg for many years – in addition to their duties – I would like to thank all the ambassadors, all the diplomats and all the international officials who worked there on behalf of the House! – Europe is the biggest peace project of our time!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6656	I now give the floor to Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6677	Mr. President, Dr. Kurt Waldheim! Mr President of the National Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== Austria joined the Council of Europe in April 1956. This was less than a year after the signing of the State Treaty and only a few months after its accession to the United Nations. It was a clear commitment to the European community of values. Foreign Minister Leopold Figl said on the occasion of the signature of the instrument of accession – I quote: By joining the Council of Europe, Austria is demonstrating its membership to the democratic community of states.” – Quotes. Together with the other democratic states, Austria was able to actively participate in the design of Europe as a legal and value-added community. The Council of Europe has made a huge contribution to Austria, to our overall development, for example, when we remember that the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms - only as an example - has been raised in the constitutional rank. But we have also made substantial contributions to the Council of Europe, not only by those who have been at the forefront – they have already been mentioned, the three Secretary-Generals Lujo Toncić-Sorinj, Franz Karasek and Walter Schwimmer, Karl Czernetz and Peter Schieder as President of the Parliamentary Assembly and Herwig van Staa as President of the Congress of Communities and Regions – but also by all those who have participated in the development of the European legal and value community in the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe during this half century, who have designed Austria's contribution in everyday life, i.e. the numerous dedicated professionals in all areas of activity, the lawyers, diplomats, parliamentarians, who have often paid little attention to the public. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Europe's Human Rights System is unique and exemplary worldwide. Today, some 800 million people have the right to sue the rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights at the European Court of Human Rights. And for half a century, the European Court of Justice has accompanied social development on our continent and has interpreted the proven rules of the Convention on Human Rights. It can also not give final answers to all the major questions of these societies, but it always offers valuable orientations if, for example, we address the relevant cases of recent years and the judgments which, among other things, have affected the position of religions and religious symbols in the public, also the question of the admissibility of restrictions on freedom of expression, information or art and their consideration of other legal goods. The Council of Europe's Directive on the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism is also an essential part of this work and brings us to the very heart of the current political relevance of the Council of Europe when, for example, we are thinking of the current efforts to investigate and clarify the accusations concerning illegal crossings for the transport of prisoners, secret withdrawals of liberty and secret detention camps. This effort is based on a common European attitude: In the fight against terrorism, there must be no legal spaces. Human rights and humanitarian standards, in particular the absolute ban on torture, should be respected. All the efforts of the Council of Europe are fully supported by Austria. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] Today's Europe would not be possible without the Council of Europe. This also applies, in particular, to overcoming the division of Europe. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the overcoming of the division of our continent, this Europe has changed dramatically. The first Council of Europe was held in Vienna in 1993 and, with its confirmation of the policy of opening up and enlargement to the reform states, it helped to strengthen peace and security for the whole continent by building democracy. This also led to the decision, which eventually led to a state association of 46 countries, including the Russian Federation, which will soon take over the presidency of the Committee of Ministers for the first time. The Heads of State or Government agreed at the 1993 Council of Europe on an extended, European security concept; I would like to mention briefly from the introduction of the Vienna Declaration: "The end of Europe's division offers us a historic opportunity to consolidate peace and stability on this continent. All our countries are linked to pluralist and parliamentary democracy, the indivisibleness and universality of human rights, the rule of law and a common cultural heritage enriched by its diversity. This will allow Europe to become a further area of democratic security. “ The Council of Europe has also practically supported the introduction of our Eastern and South-East neighbours to European legal standards in many respects, by helping to build democratic institutions, to ensure the independence of justice and to harmonise the legal system, and has helped to create a permanent basis for the stability of these countries. In this context, I would also like to mention the ‘Venediger Commission’, which has played a leading role in the development of many constitutions in the new democracies since 1990, recently through an essential contribution to the agreement on a quota for the independence referendum in Montenegro. Leave You will tell me at this point a word to the Parliamentary Assembly, because the Parliamentary Assembly is also a right and a competence to monitor compliance with the obligations of the Member States. The Parliamentary Assembly is one of the centrepieces of the Council of Europe. Twelve Members from your and the members of the Federal Council represent Austria in this body. I would like to thank them for their work and for their important work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was the first of its kind in the history of Europe. With delegations from 46 national parliaments, it is today the largest European Assembly. It also took on responsibility after 1989 to accompany the integration of the countries of Eastern Europe into the circle of European democracies. This participation in European crisis management and in the construction of legal structures in south-eastern Europe has also become one of the core tasks of the Council of Europe as a whole. A word on election observations. They are also one of the priorities of the Council of Europe's activities. So far, some 120 election observation missions have been carried out, but they alone, the observations of elections, do not guarantee democracy. It is about anchoring democracy in everyday life and sharing the power gained in elections with the laws. Since the beginnings, the Council of Europe has also given special support to democracy at local and regional level and has paid particular attention to it. The basic idea was that local self-management is the best way to meet the needs of citizens. And it is today the Congress of the Communities and Regions of the Council of Europe which is particularly devoted to this task. The Council of Europe is often referred to as the democratic and social conscience of our continent. A look at the scope and fullness of the activities of the Council of Europe reflects the diversity, the colorfulness of Europe as a whole. The Council of Europe today deals with almost all aspects of European society. Let me mention just a few: in addition to the human rights of health, social cohesion, media, education, culture, sport, youth, the environment, local democracy, cross-border cooperation as well as refugee and migration issues, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the equality of man and woman, and the problems of Roma and Sinti in our societies. The Council of Europe is also increasingly seeking intercultural and interreligious dialogue. A look at the legal instruments of the Council of Europe shows that with around 200 conventions and protocols we have a number of decisive and directional legal instruments: The European Convention on Human Rights was mentioned, but also the 1988 European Social Charter, the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Conventions, which address the current threats posed by European societies, such as the fight against trafficking in human beings, money laundering or the prevention of terrorism. A number of the general public may be less well-known and remain groundbreaking, such as the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine with the Additional Protocols, which expressly prohibit the cloning of human beings, or the 2001 Computer Crime Convention, a milestone in the fight against crimes in the field of information technology. The European Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages are pioneer achievements with a global impact. These two treaties reflect an increasing awareness in Europe as a whole, that diversity is an enrichment and that the good use of minorities is an important move of truly democratic societies. Finally, let me say a few words about the current debate on the future of the Council of Europe: At the third European Council in Warsaw, targets were formulated, namely a focus on the core areas of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The key task for the Council of Europe is to develop and present itself accordingly in the presence of other international actors who have similar, comparable areas of activity. Of course, we are thinking of the European Union and the OSCE, which are based on the same values as the Council of Europe. By the way, in practice, there is good cooperation, which is constantly being reviewed and adapted to achieve the greatest possible synergies. The Council of Europe, as an older brother, has quite a future with its classic instruments in the institutional architecture of Europe and therefore certainly a reason for a calm self-confidence. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker recently presented a report on improving the cooperation of the Council of Europe with the European Union, and we will shape further development in this regard. From a number of years of personal experience in Strasbourg, I am convinced that the Council of Europe can rely on three sources of strength in everyday practice: the human rights system, the pooled expertise of national experts and the Parliamentary Assembly, whose uniqueness is given to the fact that its members also belong to national parliaments and therefore constitute a kind of transmission belt of a particular kind between the European level and the national level. The Council of Europe will therefore continue to act as a guardian of democratic security based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We do not doubt that he will also prove himself as a living and learning organisation in view of the new challenges and can actually fulfil his task. As Austria, we will also make our contribution to this in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6801	We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Spindelegger. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6826	Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate special guests today in our debate! As the current Head of Delegation of Austria in the Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to make five brief comments on this debate today in the House. The first is: These 50 years of membership of Austria in the Council of Europe have left traces. People have already been mentioned: the former Secretary-General, who is also present here today, or the two Presidents of the Parliamentary Assembly – Peter Schieder is sitting here in the first row – have, of course, also influenced the Council of Europe. In addition, many members of the Austrian delegation, whether as committee chairman, group leader or rapporteur, have put their heart in the Council of Europe. I think that's also a positive sign that's returned to us today: At least this Easter week, we heard from the others at the Parliamentary Assembly that Austria's commitment is not only appreciated but also left these traces in the Council of Europe. On that we should all be Austrians are also proud! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: We as parliamentarians are four weeks a year in Strasbourg; the professional Austrian representatives are there all the time. We have excellent people there. Former ambassadors as well as today's ambassador Dr. Wendelin Ettmayer are present at this debate today. I would also like to pay particular tribute to the fact that the cooperation between the Austrian delegation and the parliamentary delegation has been an excellent one, has been an excellent one for years and is now very intensive. This cooperation is open, the information is available to us at any time, the care is excellent. That's why, Ambassador, you and your team have a special thanks for it! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian delegation today consists of twelve members or replacement members. Each five are set by the ÖVP and the SPÖ, each one coming from the liberal and the green club. Of course, we also have work to do there in political groups, as in every Parliament, and of course there are differences of opinion, but I would like to point out that there is a very good spirit across all sides of the party, namely to engage in the content of the various topics that are being dealt with there, and also in a joint Austrian delegation meeting, which we hold in this parliamentary week, which is important for Austria. That is why I should like to say from this point of view that I am very grateful to all the members and substitutes who are working in the parliamentary delegation today: This is a very good way of working together! There's something going on. And I would like to thank all those who are committed to this, especially Peter Schieder, who, despite his long experience as President, as the leader of the political groups and also earlier as Head of Delegation, is in the foreground of cooperation. Thank you very much for that! [[General condolences.]] Fourth, ladies and gentlemen, on the content: The content we deal with there is not always pleasant; it is especially pleasant for those affected. But it is an essential task of the Parliamentary Assembly to put its fingers in the wounds and to point out that the commitment to human rights, the commitment to the rule of law, the building of democracies in some countries is very necessary and very intensive. Let us remember all the questions about the Chechen war: We have also given a lot to the parliamentarian assembly of the Russian delegation – not always to their great joy, but I think it is necessary that we engage in this direction. Fifthly, ladies and gentlemen, what the prospects are: I think that if we present ourselves today to the Council of Europe with its 46 members and the European Union by 25, we are already showing: There is a large field of processing! That is why I think it is important that we have the Council of Europe so that there is a forum for discussion in greater unity, one that pays particular attention to these points of content. I therefore believe that we need a political stage for the larger Europe, we also need a strong and intensive commitment to human rights, and we need a Council of Europe in the future too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6897	The next speaker is Mr Dr. h.c. Schieder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6918	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear guests! The President has already mentioned the flag. For some, it is a bit confusing: Council of Europe, European Parliament, Parliamentary Assembly, European Union – the same flag, the same hymn, one entirely in Strasbourg, the other partly in Strasbourg. And there are some – of course not here – who would prefer to abolish the Council of Europe by themselves because of the risk of confusion. The EU likes to use itself as a synonym for Europe. The European Union is certainly the driving force on this continent and on this continent. It covers more than half of Europe, but it is not the whole Europe. The whole of Europe – with the exception of a state – with Russia, with Ukraine, Moldova, the Western Balkans, Turkey and the Caucasian Republics of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia – is the whole Europe, that is the Council of Europe. And I often think: How tactically unwise it is, especially from the EU countries, that the Council of Europe is not being stressed and strengthened, because the more membership of the Council of Europe means, the more valuable it itself and hence it is, the less the psychology of the States of the distance between the Council of Europe and the European Union, the stronger all are in Europe and can build on it, and the less psychological pressure, for years – and perhaps unsuccessful – to wait for one to be through EU membership in Europe! I believe that there is also the current example of the European Council of Europe's chance, which has been deprived of the institutional egocenter of the EU, namely the current construction of the European neighbourhood policy in the political field – not in the economic and financial sphere, where it is very well organised, but in the political field, the Council of Europe is not used. We are discussing a great deal today about the social dimension of the European Union. A long time ago, the Council of Europe created a breakthrough in this field: He created the unique social charter, under the chairmanship of the Austrian Member Peter Strasser in the Parliamentary Assembly. Yes, there have been very many, not only the Secretary-General and the Presidents, but many Members of this House have been very active in the Council of Europe in the various functions of all political groups. Many were important committee chairmen – to mention just two examples, from both sides: former State Secretary and Ambassador Steiner to the Political Committee and then simple MP Dr Alfred Gusenbauer. We had important rapporteurs. We also had active members at the municipal conference, including in the Commissions, also among the judges, at the official level, and President Khol himself was an official of the Council of Europe and did valuable work in Strasbourg. Austria, I believe, has used the Council of Europe for its reputation, its contacts and its international work before accession to the EU, and has now made reasonable use of it in the EU. As Austria, we are also obliged to thank the Council of Europe: for the ideas we have taken up, for the conventions that have helped us, but also for the criticism, yes, for the convictions we have suffered before the European Court of Justice, for all this has had a positive effect on Austrian practice and legislation. And I myself would also like to say a thank you on this occasion to all those who have helped, I was able to be President once, and those who supported me so much! The essence of the Council of Europe is that it is advanced parliamentaryism. The Parliamentary Assembly – and many do not know – has more rights institutionally than, for example, the European Parliament now has. The Secretary-General, the Deputy, the Judges, the members of the Anti-False Commission, all of them are elected by the Members! This is a model for Europe, and this is also a model for parliamentaryism in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Or: The human rights convention, the great importance of human rights – this is a challenge that we must continue to meet! The Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, must continue to be actively supported, must not be undermined financially, and the EU as a whole should join. And here, too, Austria now has a very specific task as a Presidency in the EU, namely to ensure that the Union's human rights agency here in Vienna is not developing into a competition for the institutions of the Council of Europe, because the institutions of the Council of Europe, the possibility that every citizen may also sue his state if he sees its fundamental rights at risk, are a European asset, is a European progress which cannot be estimated to be high enough! We are discussing today, we remember the past of the years in the Council of Europe, but on this occasion we also note: The Council of Europe also has a future!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e6982	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7003	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Schieder! It is right that the Council of Europe has – or: Let us hope that the Council of Europe has a future! He's an important institution. I myself also had the pleasure and the honour of serving for four years under the Head of Delegation. [[Abg. Grandruck: Eh! ‘Reserved’?]] It has also been said: That was really cross-party. There was the feeling – I assume that it is still so – that representatives of Austria and not representatives of political parties are working there. Mr Schieder mentioned representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, there were also representatives of the Greens, such as Mr Stoisits, who worked very actively. There were also representatives of the liberals – I see Holger Bauer at the gallery, but also Susanne Riess-Passer – who worked very intensively to achieve the goals of Austria in the Council of Europe. But: Where much light – about the light has already been spoken, especially about the importance of the Council of Europe in relation to human rights – is there also shadows. In this case, thank God not much shadow. But, for example, the “party policy orientation” – between quotation marks – which we have avoided in the Austrian delegation, is a problem that I have repeatedly criticized, especially the elections and votes that Peter Schieder has referred to as an example of parliamentaryism at European level, but often, or primarily, under the specific omens. There are negotiations, agreements, and sometimes one has the impression that one or the other has no chance because it belongs to the wrong group. One should try to give this influence to the parties, to the political groups a little bit back and to give more weight to the representation of the countries, as Austria has repeatedly tried to do. I was a member of the Council of Europe in the mid-1990s in a very, very exciting phase. At that time, as I believe, the Council of Europe had one of its central functions, namely the countries of the former Eastern Bloc, the former communist dictatorships of Europe, to bring it into democratic Europe. There were very, very good, very, very intense discussions, including requirements, monitoring processes that certainly caused a lot of things. It was also measured in the Council of Europe a little by two measures. Mr Spindelegger mentioned that Russia had been given a lot in the Chechen war. I believe that the reaction of the Council of Europe was lukewarm, because if a member of the Council of Europe is waging a war of attack, it naturally contradicts the principles of the Council of Europe. At the time, a suspension of membership was made for a few months. On the other hand, in other countries, such as Croatia, very strict guidelines have already been put in place in the process of inclusion, and it has taken a long time for us – and we have supported this process of reception – to have managed to send this important signal to the Balkan countries, too, that Croatia can be included in the Council of Europe. What about the future of the Council of Europe? – It is constantly being discussed what the function of the Council of Europe is in. It is also evident that the European Union and the European Parliament want to carry out more and more tasks of the Council of Europe. We have discussed the European Constitution, unfortunately not completed, but in this context the catalogue of fundamental rights has already taken another step to transfer the tasks, the functions of the Council of Europe to the European Parliament, to the European Union. – This discussion must be held. The fact that we have to explain again and again what this Council of Europe is shows that the European Parliament and the European Union are doing much more in public relations and are far more present than the Council of Europe has been in recent years. I believe that there is a future perspective for an institution such as the Council of Europe and also for the Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Europe has 46 members; almost all European countries are integrated into this Community. On the other hand, we constantly discuss the boundaries of the enlargement of the European Union, where we note that there are many countries that cannot or do not want to become members. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: I therefore believe that the Council of Europe should be one of these bodies, for this ‘partnership for Europe’, where countries outside the European Union can be integrated into the European family and where it is possible to create deeper processes not only in the area of human rights, but perhaps also in the field of environmental and economic standards, precisely for these countries. So not a preliminary step, not a waiting room for the European Union, but a necessary, an important complement for this common continent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7048	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7069	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! I have come around a lot in the world in recent years, if you like, but I do not know any other place as diverse as the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. I would like each of our national parliamentarians to go to the cafeteria of the Council of Europe once, because there is a parliamentary cafeteria. There you get, as it were, a physical sense of what Europe means, not German, English, French and perhaps a little Spanish, but there is a mixture of languages and a sound that is very beneficial to me, because my mother tongue is also one of the smaller languages of Europe. In the Council of Europe, all this melts: 46 states that are represented there – there are probably not 46 languages – and around 40 languages will already be in total. The Federal Minister has already pointed out one of the functions of the Council of Europe and of which there is too little public perception in Austria. I very much regret that today's debate is not broadcast on television, Mr President; many of the national Council's debates are broadcast on television, but exactly what we could say to a few 10,000 people: There is the European Union and the European Parliament, but there is also the Council of Europe in which Austria has been represented for 50 years!, and all that has already been said by the Members of this House, is not being transferred, although this would have to be heard more often. This would have been an opportunity to bring this to people – but it is not. [[We welcome the Greens and the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] Now I have to tell again those who already know all this very well, but they are, so to speak, the multipliers, and I have to turn to the colleagues here. The Council of Europe is that institution in Europe which is most intensively concerned with minorities; minorities in many ways: ethnic minorities, religious minorities, social minorities, minorities in relation to sexual orientation. In all these fields, activity is developed not only by the Parliamentary Assembly, which, in my view, is underestimating internationally underestimated and unknown valuable work – I do not want to mention the conventions now – but also in the reports, in the fact-finding missions that are taking place. In the context of this work there are things that are not touched in national parliaments, so to speak. I myself – Herbert Scheibner has already said that I am the representative of the Greens in the delegation elected by the National Council – in recent years, I have been dealing with two issues that have come up with approval. One theme was “internal displacement, ” i.e. internally displaced people in Europe. These are the most important refugees in the world and in Europe, refugees who cannot even flee across national borders, but stay within national borders. Think about it – Michael Spindelegger has pointed this out – to the current civil war area in Europe, in a Member State, namely Russia and those parts where things happen, which no one can imagine of us, if he has not been there himself. Refugee camps in Ingushetia, North Ossetia, where people from Chechnya seek protection from persecution – everything within Russia, within their own country! This only concerns the Council of Europe in Europe, of course it does not concern the European Union – the European Union has 25 Member States and the Council of Europe 46 Member States. Only a country in Europe is not a member of the Council of Europe – exclusive of the Vatican, which has a special position – and this one is Belarus. They all know exactly why Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe: Because Belarus has a dictatorship and no democratic system. I would like to tell you all what it means, in the practical effect, especially in the last 15 years, that the European countries have become members of the Council of Europe: A condition and condition for membership of the Council of Europe is the abolition of the death penalty or the suspension of the death penalty in case of admission and then the final abolition. We would have countries in Europe where there is the death penalty, if they were not Member States of the Council of Europe. Because without support, suspension, or abolition, there is no recording. This, ladies and gentlemen, distinguishes Europe from other continents: Consensus and apprehension of the death penalty throughout the continent! And I am proud of that as an Austrian parliamentarian, but above all as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly. I therefore ask the Minister to support the work of the Council of Europe not only verbally, but also where the Council of Europe lacks resources. Access to the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. access to the right for people seeking it, is, in fact, completely blocked because the procedures take so long because, if you are looking for a right there, it always lasts until the next decade. This is because efficiency increases fail to achieve a structure that does not provide the necessary resources. Why must there be only one judge per State in the European Court of Justice? There could also be a more cost-intensive system. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to have this in mind, so that it does not remain in the way of beautiful speech, but also that concrete action be taken, because it protects minorities, less privileged groups, on the edge of most groups. And in this context, Austria, as a country rich in which many people are still very good, has great responsibility – and we represent this responsibility. Good 50. Date of accession to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7157	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7179	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, you are giving us your attention today as guests or visitors – thank you! High house! The last century left two pictures in Europe: the first part bad war conditions, the second part a building process that can be seen. But the very first part was the responsible personalities. Europe has led it to do something so that in future people, especially in Europe, will be spared from military processes after being successful. This was certainly one of the founding ideas. August 1949, when the first convention was concluded with the “London Ten Power Pact”. There were clear objectives: Peace-keeping, as has already been said, to maintain a European community of values and to ensure the cultural diversity of Europe. Austria joined the Council of Europe in 1956. And I think we should talk about it, because many personalities have already been mentioned here today: It was the then Foreign Minister and, like me, great statesman Leopold Figl, who signed the instrument of accession and thus allowed us to enter this community. Today it has also been mentioned what is impressed by a member of the Parliamentary Assembly. My observation was also in the years when I was allowed to belong to the Council of Europe, in which Peter Schieder, but also Dr Walter Schwimmer, worked there in an impressive way for me, especially when it came to implementing social standards, deepening democracies in the “new” countries, so that they also contributed to the fact that the protection of minorities is not only a subject, but also a political word. At the first EU summit in 1998, which took place here in Vienna, these were also topics that were reported. I mean, the Council of Europe continues to play a very important role – many things have already been said. Personally, I believe that a small country like Austria can also be a success if not only Austrian personalities work on site, but Austria is also well represented there. I am glad that our ambassador, who is always very well cared for and advised us there, is here. - Thank you. Of course, the Council of Europe will continue to play an important role in the democratic process in the future when it comes to making election observations – one does not want to believe which reports are coming back – when it comes to fighting the disregard for fundamental and human rights; I believe that the national system of fundamental rights is an example here. From my point of view, the Congress of the Municipalities and Regions of Europe is also very important, particularly in connection with the implementation of democratic processes. Elections alone, ladies and gentlemen, do not yet mean democracy. It is only given if it is lived, if the community of values corresponds to it, and if the participation of the people is allowed in principle. Recently, there are new issues such as terrorism, corruption and trafficking in human beings. I am also often concerned, when I work in the committees, about what is to be heard about reports in this regard. My cooperation takes place mainly in the areas of social, migration, ecology and regional development. I am pleased that I was able to continue the work of Edeltraud Gatterer, who was concerned with bringing the Euthanasia debate to the point and rejecting it, refusing to discuss a new development of thought. We have done this successfully in this Parliament a few days ago. The Committee on Regional Development is mainly concerned with preserving the area of culture, recreation and employment as such, discussing the protection of the seas and much more. What impresses me in this association with 315 Members is the appreciation given to our country and also to our government. Ladies and gentlemen! I say this very consciously because I am in my own country, because I, too, here in this Parliament, do not experience this appreciation that we really deserve. I think that's an example that we should focus on. The Council of Europe serves as a model for many regions in the world. I also believe that its significance and impact need to be improved. But I think that Europe's success is based not only on economic considerations, but also on the protection of individuals, on social justice; Principles enshrined in the Council of Europe. This organization is the only institution in which we all live and work together as equal partners, which is why it is of great importance to the citizens of this continent, especially in order to secure peace, social standards and prosperity, employment and much more, which is important for people, even in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7252	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7273	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Here in the Austrian Parliament, we welcome the guests, the friends of the Council of Europe – thank you very much for this. This year, with its fifty-year membership of the Council of Europe, Austria is an important part of the “European conscience”, as the Parliamentary Assembly has repeatedly been called in significant speeches. Why Conscience? – The Parliamentary Assembly sees itself as a guardian of the Statutes of the Council of Europe and the fundamental values of a Community of European States, shared by the rule of law, human rights protection and parliamentary democracy. Its role as a political conscience in Europe is above all that of an tireless Mahner, to preserve and promote common values, to remind the Member States, if necessary, without traditional diplomatic respect. The political conscience of Europe is not an inner voice, it gives public hearings, as could be expected by a parliamentary assembly. I quote the former British Foreign Minister Lord Carrington, who said: This conscience is always reported when it comes to human rights and the defence of the common heritage of European democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in recent months, this conscience has returned to hearing. I remember Mrs Plassnik also pointed out the CIA flights where prisoners were transported through the European airspace. In this case, an Austrian also plays a major role, namely Peter Schieder, who is in the process of discovering and clarifying this. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Second example: Especially during the last parliamentary session of the Council of Europe in the Carweek, that is, the week before Easter, the question of trafficking in human beings was urgently discussed, this time in connection with football world championship and forced prostitution. 60 000 women are to be transferred to Germany and forced prostitution. This is the subject of the Council of Europe. This will be discussed and will respond quickly. And that is a very important and necessary task. It was also mentioned that one of the main achievements of the Council of Europe is the establishment of the Human Rights Protection System, which was first created in 1953 as the possibility of individual complaint. If people living in a state of the Council of Europe suffer human rights violations, an individual complaint can be made and the state condemned. This is a very important thing that I can not only have the right, but also enforce it. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in times of increasing globalisation, the European canon of values is constantly being questioned. Whether the pressure comes from outside or from within Europe is secondary. Only two examples: In the United States, the number of death sentences has been decreasing for a number of years. And the first arson of religious fundamentalist currents is increasingly torpedoing women's rights. Just think of the omnipresent debate on human rights versus cultural relativism or, in other words, the rights of the self-determination of women versus tolerance versus under the cover of religious therefore coming discrimination such as forced marriages, homicides and so on. Reports have been prepared in the Council of Europe. It was discussed and some conventions were also written. I also say this because the Council of Europe is often not heard as much and because it is not as loud as one would often wish. The Council of Europe has shown fresh clarity and speed on these very important issues and has also shown the measures to be taken or to be implemented. The special feature of the Parliamentary Assembly has already been mentioned here, namely that it was always possible to find joint Austrian positions across groups. Mr Donabauer has already mentioned the common position on death aid. There were other common positions. In Paris, we have made sure that the issue of lead motherhood was not discussed and was no longer included in Mr Hancock's report. That was something very important. The Convention against trafficking in human beings was also jointly represented by the Austrian delegation. I am glad that there are certain inalienable values here that we do not need to discuss over the party borders. Mrs. Minister! Now one more request to you: No birthday without gifts. For me and for women, for the victims of trafficking in human beings, it would be the most beautiful gift if we could also ratify this convention in Austria after the signing of the Convention against trafficking in human beings last year. We would be one of the first countries. It would be a beautiful birthday present. And it would be an important matter for the victims of these cruel crimes and also for the more efficient fight against trafficking in human beings. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7356	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. For you, too, Mr Deputies, 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7377	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! 50 years of Council of Europe is an important anniversary for Austria. The Council of Europe is the conscience of Europe, and 46 members are subject to de facto the Council of Europe on human rights and fundamental values. As an Austrian, I am proud that we have enshrined these human rights and fundamental values in the Austrian Constitution. The European Court of Human Rights is unique, and that is because every citizen in the Member States can bring charges when fundamental rights are violated, and otherwise it is not possible to put a state in general - I say now - on the brink when things happen that should simply be impossible in this Europe. We in the European Parliament and the Council of Europe often have different access. It is terrifying for me what is being shown in the Council of Europe. It is terrifying how much injustice is still happening in this Europe. But the Council of Europe has another function. He is not only the bad conscience for Europe but also beyond Europe. I have experienced this in Mexico and in many other countries. The Council of Europe also has a value because, in many areas, I can see within the Council of Europe that former ministers, former Heads of Government, are working in this Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is occasionally stashed in its function because it has very old rules. But the Council of Europe is an institution I do not want to miss as a citizen of Europe as a whole. The Council of Europe, regardless of the European Parliament or the European Union, has an important role in this Europe, whether in terms of democracy or human rights, whether it be in matters such as prostitution or slave trafficking, which is still taking place in this Europe, or where people are permanently exposed to injustices. Environment: the assessment of the flood disaster in the Danube Delta – various areas that are very important for this Europe. 50 years of membership is something great. And I hope it'll be another 50 years. In Europe, there is a tendency to disband this Council of Europe. I hope Austria will continue to stand there. Although the Council of Europe has this function, it needs it and is superior to the 25 Member States of the European Union. He has 46 members – and I hope that it will be even more. The Council of Europe also has an important role to play in this area, because Austrians have worked there. We have heard three Secretary-Generals, two Presidents, one sitting among us, namely Peter Schieder. I first met him in the Council of Europe. I didn't have this opportunity in the National Council. But in the Council of Europe I had this opportunity, and I am grateful for this experience. I am grateful for the experience that there is another relationship, not just the struggle, but common goals for Austria, for Europe. I am also grateful to our Head of Delegation, Mr Michael Spindelegger, who also contributes to this, or also to the ambassador, who is also going to eat with us and again not only eat, but also to discuss it. The 50-year celebration was a great event in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I personally, as a Member of this House, do not want to miss out on this experience and, like many others, I am grateful for having this opportunity, and I hope that we will continue to do as great a job there as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7428	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. For you, too, ladies and gentlemen, 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7452	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the high house, on the government bank and on the visitor gallery! It has already been compared several times now that the Council of Europe would be the good or bad conscience of Europe. I am normally not a special friend of moral values in the political debate, but let us take the example as a comparison, and the comparison is not exactly so bad in this case. In a conscience, essentially, two questions always arise. One is: How well do you know how solid and solid the conscience is? I believe that the Council of Europe can be given a very good witness in view of the fact that it is an institution with 46 members. The Council of Europe is certainly much more critical and trying to represent the interests that are lacking in normal political affairs, such as human rights, as some other political institution, and at least a very important, indispensable counterweight to the European Union's everyday policy as such, if I only take the European context. The second question that arises is: What effect does the conscience have? There are reports that people have a conscience, but from the inner voice never results from any external action. The question is: How does this conscience affect the Member States and Europe in order to remain in comparison? – And, unfortunately, the balance sheet that can be drawn after the 50 years after these last years is not as pleasing as the first question. If I look at the fact that on the one hand we have a European Convention on Human Rights, which is invaluable and important, and at the same time I think about how foreign law has developed in the Member States in recent years, I must say that this is not in any good context. There are very clear intensifications in foreign law, also in Austria as a Member State of the Council of Europe, which are at least in friction with the Convention on Human Rights, if not in a clear and open contradiction. Then you ask yourself: How far does a conscience come to be? In other words, in recent years, we have seen developments within the European Union and in Austria, political developments that are against the conscience formulated by the Council of Europe. A second example: the already mentioned area of trafficking in human beings. There is a Convention of the Council of Europe which has not yet been ratified by any Member State. That is, we have a good conscience, we have a good convention that takes account of a devastating abuse and says that there is a need for joint efforts by the European States and each Member State of the Council of Europe against trafficking in human beings, against trafficking in women, against the fact that this is now the most flourishing business international – better than drug trafficking or arms trafficking. And there's a simple reason for this: People can sell multiple times, drugs and weapons usually only once. Mrs Foreign Minister, what are the Member States doing, what is Austria doing? – We have signed the Convention, but ratification is waiting for it. I can therefore only demand that we not only celebrate Europe's conscience, on its birthdays or on Sunday's speeches, but that we guide it for the take political action in Austria as a Member State and in the rest of Europe. And I think there is a lot of areas of activity where Europe is sparse. We have several framework conventions. Let us take those for the protection of minorities – a framework convention that has ratified Austria at the lowest level. Why, please? So we want to go ahead as an example? We want to call on other countries within Europe and outside Europe to achieve human rights standards or democratic standards if we do not even fully ratify, sign and implement a Convention of the Council of Europe? – It really can't be. I therefore do not have a birthday present for this Council of Europe, but two questions to this Austrian government, how seriously it takes it with its commitment to the Council of Europe. I ask you, Mrs Foreign Minister: When will the ratification of the Convention against trafficking in human beings come? And I am asking the non-present Federal Chancellor, as EU Council President, right now: What initiatives are there to bring closer together the European Union and the Council of Europe in the areas also called for, for example, EU accession to the European Convention on Human Rights? What position does Austria represent at all? What activities has put a bowl in place? – These are my two questions to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7516	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7537	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Ambassador! Dear former Secretary-General! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been in the Council of Europe for 50 years. When I tell friends and acquaintances of this, there is usually total ignorance. The least know that there is also the Council of Europe next to the EU. And that is something that makes me very disappointed, very sad, as someone who works there and knows the benefits and achievements of the Council of Europe. At the university, we, as lawyers, met the Council of Europe as an important, large institution. It was very far away from us, it rarely occurred in the media, the EU even more frequently. That's why I also have an appeal to the media: As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I can only ask for our support in bringing the important work of the Council of Europe to the attention of people in Austria, because this is of great importance in many aspects. As national Members of Parliament, we note the major problems that still exist in some of the 46 Member States today with regard to the implementation and enforcement of human rights and democracy. And every time a election is made in Austria, where voting is very low, this affects me, in particular, because I get firsthand and very immediately in the Council of Europe, in whatever geographical proximity to us even today in Europe journalists, civil society people, people in opposition still die because they are fighting for democracy in their countries. In this sense, I am seeking to see the Council of Europe as an important reminder that the fight for democracy must continue to be fought in our own countries, including with all our votes in the elections. The Council of Europe itself has a great deal of speciality with its Parliamentary Assembly, namely close cooperation between all the representatives of the individual national parliaments. This is very different from the EU Parliament, in some way very beneficial, which promotes the exchange of experience, which is why I would argue that a way should also be considered for better cooperation between the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, as well as for Members of the European Parliament to become Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. Not in addition, but for example as part of their own national delegations. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution aimed at improving cooperation between national parliaments and the European Union and the Council of Europe. [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I appeal that, especially as long as there is no European Constitution, we work together to ensure that the European Union: as a whole of the European Convention on Human Rights, because I consider this to be both parallel to an EU catalogue of fundamental rights and, independently, long overdue and absolutely indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7636	That of Mrs Magist. The motion for a resolution tabled by Hakl has been sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7719	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7740	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Honourable Guests! Ladies and gentlemen! 50 years of membership of the Council of Europe are a good opportunity to talk here about the Council of Europe. It would really be desirable if we could do this more often and if we could inform you more often here about our work in the Council of Europe. What are the headlines that can be found when looking for a description of the Council of Europe? - That's what it says: The Council of Europe is a unique forum that fulfils the function of a democratic conscience, is the guarantee of a model of society, the Based on the common recognition of humanistic values such as human rights, solidarity or respect for the foreign, lawyer of the interests of millions of citizens is an area of peace and freedom and the path and the bridge to the European Union. – These are just some of the headlines and headlines that can be found when the Council of Europe is described. One of the main pillars of the Council of Europe is undoubtedly the European Convention on Human Rights. It is so important because it has been unique so far, because the EU has not yet published its own catalogue of human rights. However, the numerous other conventions and human rights institutions, such as the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment, the European Social Charter, the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities or the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, are unique. It has also been mentioned today that the heart of the Council of Europe, if one wants to, or perhaps the engine of the Council of Europe, is the parliamentary assembly. In this assembly, consisting of 630 members from 46 nations, I would like to stress that this is a cultural diversity that cannot otherwise be found! – is being worked, and above all a lot of work is done in the committees. In recent years, the Committee on Culture, Science and Education, which I belong to, has set up important initiatives, for example, in the field of political education. The year 2005 was proclaimed by the Council of Europe as the Year of Political Education (European Year of Citizenship through Education). At the same time, this year the Council of Europe held the Presidency in the parliamentary troika of the Stability Pact for South-East Europe. Under my leadership in Belgrade, a two-day workshop was held in which numerous experts and experts from all over South-East Europe, OSCE representatives, European Parliament and students from the University of Belgrade discussed the topic of "Polish Education". There was a lot of discussion. There has been a great deal of debate on how to deal with political confusion, how to deal with the decline in electoral participation, and it has been underlined that it should be very important and a concern for all parliamentarians to anchor the democratic values and attitudes firmly in the population. The Council of Europe sees in political education the key to the development of a democratic culture, and one lies in the nature of the matter: Democratic culture cannot be decreed from above, but it is a process that is never to end, a process that is in no country to come to an end at any time! Therefore, the motto for 2005 has also stated: ‘Learning and living democracy’. However, there is nothing yet to say about the numerous other issues of this committee or the work of the other eleven committees. Europe – and this is what I mean by the great Europe – needs a common political culture, and it can only develop in one cooperation: in avoiding conflicts, in learning one another, in the setting of oneself apart with different views and ultimately in finding common strategies. For the development of such a common political culture, the Council of Europe is predestined and, in fact, the only Tool for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7801	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7822	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciated guests at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! A 50-year anniversary is certainly a real and good time to look back, but also to show prospects. We Austrians have been members of the Council of Europe for 50 years. In 1949 this Council of Europe was founded as a international organisation. As we know, the Council of Europe is not the EU. All the Member States of the European Union are members of the Council of Europe, but there are still more, there are 46 countries in total, from Albania to Turkey to Russia. The Council of Europe is geographically more comprehensive in relation to the Member States than the European Union. The aim of the Council of Europe is to prepare and support the conclusion of international treaties, the protection of human rights, democracy, freedom, pluralism and the rule of law. The European Convention on Human Rights, one of the around 200 Conventions of the Council of Europe, and an essential “child”, the European Court of Human Rights, have been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, the European Convention on Human Rights is in the constitutional order and is thus a decisive pillar, a cornerstone of the Austrian legal system. The work of the Court of Justice, which has – you can say – a positive influence on Austrian legislation. Austria, as well as other member countries, allows the individual complaint at the European Court of Human Rights. This is the only international body in which it is possible for citizens to address them directly with their complaint and to file a complaint in case of suspicion of fundamental rights violations. It is a wish to shorten the timeliness of such complaints, i.e. the duration of the proceedings. This would also do a very good job for a positive development. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, there is a great scepticism of citizens towards the European Union, towards Europe. We know the outcome of the referendums in the Netherlands and France on the European Constitution. The reasons for scepticism are high unemployment, lack of proximity to the citizen. There is also a need, namely the need to reform the structures in Europe in the sense of more democracy, of closer proximity to the citizen. That's, as I mean, an hour's commandment. Europe's responsibility is to play a central political role in the world community in the future. The aim is to establish Europe as a global, security, competitive and knowledge-based player. The Council of Europe is the origin of many essential European institutions, a bulwark against insecurity, an essential part of the European community of values, as I believe, and is important for the building up, but also for the expansion of democracy in some countries. I am proud that Austrians have played a significant role, and I can express my thanks to all those who have worked in this sense. The Institution of the Council of Europe has not only been important for the development of Europe over the past decades, but it is, as I believe, also for the next decades. It is extremely important for the further development of our continent. We've already heard: The Council of Europe is the conscience of Europe. I'm convinced: The Council of Europe also has an important and good future in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7886	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e7908	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who are also sitting on the bench! Dear guests at the gallery, those who had to do with the Council of Europe for years and decades, but also the spectators! Much has already been said about the importance of this Council of Europe and was that it has actually written history. I would like to mention two examples of where he has done this, namely that the European Convention on Human Rights and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have also written history. The one thing that has already been mentioned is the question of ethnic minorities, of control, of monitoring, and of support to those who are committed to their rights. The other is an area that discriminates against people because of their gender orientation. The Council of Europe and the Assembly of Parliament were really forward-looking when, in 1981, a resolution was adopted against discrimination against people on the grounds of their sexual orientation, on the basis of their homosexuality, which the World Health Organization at the time called for to finally remove homosexuality from the catalogue of diseases. This has taken ten years, until 1991, and fortunately now it has been the case for 15 years. The European Court of Human Rights was also groundbreaking as regards the rights of same-sex couples. In a 2003 historic judgment against Austria, it was recognised that the unfair treatment of same-sex couples, for example in rental law, is a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. Unfortunately, Austria has not taken this so seriously – even this Federal Government – to go so far as to introduce equal rights for same-sex couples. Another point I would like to address is where the Council of Europe has been very committed in recent months, namely to the investigation of the European countries in which the CIA has had illegal camps, illegal detention camps, and to the investigation of illegal overflights. There is a committee of inquiry in which Mr Schieder has also been active and has played an important role. A statement by the Head of this Commission was that no Member State of the Council of Europe has effective legislative and administrative measures to protect individuals to effectively protect people from human rights violations by agents of foreign intelligence in their own territory. I have a very specific question to the Foreign Minister to whom I have not heard an answer so far – we know that Austria is currently leading the EU Presidency: Has the Presidency put forward proposals on how this protection of people from foreign intelligence agents who do not comply with human rights can be guaranteed at national level? I also think that this would be a task for the Austrian EU Presidency not only to speak in front of the Council of Europe's National Council, but also in specific cases to set up initiatives on how human rights can be protected in this area. Unfortunately, there has not yet been any measures or public statements from the Federal Government – that would be necessary! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on the request that the government parties have now submitted with the support of the Social Democrats, which is that national parliaments should be more involved in the legislation of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen – and specifically also to the Presidents of the Council of Nations, Khol, who is now at least not visible in the room – a support from the Greens for this request is not available for two reasons: One is a time, so to speak, one of the procedures. It simply is not a question of making proposals from the President-in-Office of the Council recently – and this is what happens more often – on European policy issues which are being passed on to the clubs in the short term, and then it is said that now decisions quickly, whether yes or no, and then will be voted or passed on. Last week, when, at once, a proposal from the President of the National Council and the President of the Federal Council for the meeting of the national parliaments and the European Parliament came to Brussels in May, the other parties were allowed to deliver “disstincing opinions”, that is, divergent opinions. This is not a procedure, Mr National Council President! This is an instrumentalization of Parliament, the National Council for the interests of the Federal Government! To these things there is a clear no: That's not it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now the same thing is done: An attempt is being made to instrumentalise the Council of Europe's debate on a step towards improving the relationship between national parliaments and the European Union, with the argument that it is a matter of reaching closer proximity to citizens. Mr President-in-Office of the Council and I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having been able to do so for a long time. In the National Council's main committee, there is the possibility to do so – Art. 23rd B-VG, request for opinion. ==References== March 2006, there was a request from us regarding energy efficiency at European level, exit from nuclear energy. There has been no consent from you, no binding of the Federal Chancellor in Brussels! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That would be the opportunity where the National Council could already represent exactly this closeness to citizens! They do not, but here try to instrumentalise a debate for something else, to get the raisins out of the European Constitutional Treaty for the national level. This is an accusation to the government groups: You think here nationally, nationalistically and not Europeanally!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8004	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Dr h.c. Schieder, Scheibner, colleagues, on parliamentary development in matters of European integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, so this motion for a resolution is adopted. (E 178.) [[12:39:17]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1315, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Service Law 1979, the Pension Act 1965, the Federal Theatre Pension Act, the Federal Railway Pension Act and the Wage Law 1956 (1394 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1314, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the General Pensions Act (Social Insurance Amendment Act 2006 – SVÄG 2006) (1360 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8059	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting on item 2 of the agenda. Mr Walch, the rapporteur, has been announced to me that there is an error correction. - Is that right? [[Abg. Walch shakes his head.]] If so, a report would have to be made. If this is not the case, there will also be no oral reporting on this point. - So that's not the case. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Silhavy is speaking. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8097	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Behind the title “Social Insurance Amendment Act 2006” is another attempt to deceive people that the social policy measures of the black and colored German government would not be as bad as people feel and feel every day. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: You are excellent!]] – The term “swallower’s pension”, “swallower’s time” and the like was born. This regulation has become necessary through the unfair and unfair pension reductions that this Federal Government has been doing since 2000. [[Abg. Steibl: S’ do not believe that itself! Is that the envelope?]] Mrs Steibl! If you were to deal with the situation of people in Austria, you would understand very well why I have to make these statements: You have awakened false hopes – you can ask people who have expected everyone to fall under this heavy-worker scheme! What has become of these hopes? air bubbles that have disintegrated into nothing. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They are against the heavy workers! There you can focus on the talk as you want, it won't be better!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This government template is an inadequate response to the measures you took in 2003. A fair regime for heavy work will not be possible at all under these conditions which you have now created. We have already told you that in committee. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's why it doesn't get any more real!]] This bill, which we are discussing today – and before you talk to us now, colleagues from the BZÖ, should you just read it once, then you would know what it means – is really a heavy-worker exclusion scheme and not a heavy-worker-pension scheme as you want to pretend! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You're all too little!]] It is true that ten years of hard work have had to be demonstrated within the last 20 years. People who have been hard work for 30 years and longer, but who have not worked as a heavy worker within the last ten years of retirement, fall out of this whole scheme at all. – I do not know what to laugh at, Mr Tancsits! I think the people concerned don't think this is absolutely funny and not funny. The women who, for example, do hard work in the care service and do not fall under this scheme are not at all funny and not funny. That is one of the most difficult professions at all, and therefore it would have really deserved those in this field to experience relief! – Nothing like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or: You say 45 years are enough! And what is it? – 1.8 percent of discounts still exist! You're not 45 years old enough, but you're punishing the people with supplements! All these are promises you have made, hopes that you have awakened, and if you look at what's behind them: There's nothing behind it, as you see. They themselves know that it is not even guaranteed that it holds constitutional. Mr Tomandel has already sent you his criticism, and I hope you have at least considered it. You also know that the pension insurance institution predicted that under these conditions you want to create here, only 1,500 people will be able to benefit from heavy work benefits. That is, if you change this to the newly recognized pensions per year, then you just get a share of 1.8 percent. This will keep you far below the 5 percent you have proposed as a requirement. – Oh, no, you said that 5 per cent should not be exceeded; I would almost have been deceived now. You yourself said: We make a regulation, we promise all people that they will have many hopes, but it must not affect more than 5 per cent! [[Abg. Steibl: This is what the Socialists do!]] No more than 5 percent! [[Abg. Steibl: You're talking about yourselves! That's what the Socialists do!]] Now you make a scheme that will keep you far below this 5 percent – 1.8%! [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] Mrs Steibl, your excitement shows that you yourself have a bad conscience! You know exactly what you're doing with it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: You don't even have a bad conscience!]] That's a shame! You know exactly what you're doing, and They do it against better knowledge – against people. It's really bad, you should think about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What's at BAWAG?]] Mrs Steibl, on certain matters, Raika and so on, we do not now discuss them, we will be able to discuss them within the framework of another item on the agenda. Now we are talking about social policy that you are doing, about bad social policy that you are doing, about bad social policy for the people of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You do not make a good social policy, and you will feel it in the elections. That's why you are so excited: because you notice that people no longer trust you and no longer follow you, just because you are making unfair and unfair distribution policies! And that is exactly what happens in this government template. Second point. [[Abg. Steibl leaves the meeting room.]] – Mr Steibl, you should stay there, it is about widow's pensions, among other things! – This second point also shows how unfair you are. They are forced to reorganise the calculation of widow's pensions. In the presentation, Mrs Bundesminister, there was at least the intention to use five years in certain cases. The Minister for Finance said: Nothing, it's too expensive! No five years, four years maximum! – But you know that is not enough. We have mentioned one case to you – you know it yourself – that shows that he is not covered again by the new regulation, that the regulations are unfair again, that they are unfair again, and that the woman in question is, as it were, worse than she was under the original regulation. Fair and safe pensions, ladies and gentlemen, are also a matter of respect for the performance of life of individual people. You do not show this respect to people with this presentation, and we condemn it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would also like to mention that you also make a legal intervention in the collective contract or react with threats and threats. – This is not our understanding of politics! We stand for democratic self-determination rights and reject this kind of policy by acting legally in collective agreements by threatening and putting threats to the negotiators. I would like to give this very official record here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this government template, you have tried to cover up an improper, unfair and unjust social policy that you have pursued in six years with inadequate means, with deception maneuvers. – People will not come in on it! We reject the proposal and people will also reject your policy in the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8314	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8335	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you have listened to my previous speaker, you wonder what needs to happen so that the SPÖ can find a realistic view of things in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] – But please, just keep going, that doesn’t lead to anything! We are making a serious social policy for people – today's social security amendment law 2006 is proof of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me start with the less spectacular things, such as the re-regulation of survivors' pensions. That is true, Mrs Silhavy, what you said, namely that the original regulation, which was based on the total working time and the wealth acquired, was a more favourable one. In this context, however, they did not mention that it was the Constitutional Court that removed this view of things and this calculation and instructed us as legislators to take the deadline of entry into the survivors' pension as a measure of all things, and that today we are making another attempt, with the extension of four years, to go practically to the maximum of the possible scope for interpretation, in order to be able to dispel dramatic developments in recent years for the survivors, such as through disease and loss of income. So I ask you to stick to the truth and to reality when you report on a law! This is a clear improvement towards the rules that have existed in recent years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the so-called heavy-work pension, heavy-work regulations. After the 2003 pension reform, which is exemplary in Europe, after the harmonisation of pension systems, we have recognised internationally, exemplaryly in Europe, and there must be special benefits for those who have done hard work over a long period of time. And this is now after a long discussion, after serious testing by pension insurance institutions in the Constitution today. This is a new social policy country, and there will be improvements, just to say, ladies and gentlemen: I don’t do anything at all!, that can’t be an alternative! I’m not doing any pension reform at all!, that can’t be an alternative! Of course, the original consideration was to cover the entire working life. But should we make a regulation of which the pension insurance institutions, the transpositions of this scheme, say that they are not manageable? On the other hand, if you know that it is precisely the years of heavy work in the older age that bring particular burdens, it is an administrative arrangement to look back on 20 years and 10 years of hard work and to allow all, regardless of the service relationship – whether private employees or staff in one of the public service conditions – to provide the corresponding favored entitlement in the pension. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the courage to change social policy is positive, which can only be supported. Let me turn to the following, Mrs Silhavy, because I hear again and again that women would not be covered. Which passage of this bill do you take from? Could it be that you do not know or that you want to change that for the next years and decades, leaving with 2033, women in Austria generally still have a favourable pension? [[Abg. Silhavy: So this is already under the cover!]] Do you really want to change that and abolish it? The suspicion, ladies and gentlemen, is close, for the SPÖ says: We want to accept women in particular! [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Tancsit's colleague, who talks about how he thinks!]] The suspicion is close, ladies and gentlemen. You have always felt sorry for us in recent years: Turbo capitalism is coming, neoliberalism is coming! and behind this parade you have speculated the funds of the workers in the Caribbean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't do it the same with the women! We stand by these derogations, and if they grow into a higher retirement age, then the heavy work scheme applies equally to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8418	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8439	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that the heavy-worker regulation could have become an ambitious project – it would have been, Mr Scheuch – but I have to say straight away, Mr Scheuch, from the very beginning it was clear that there are certain obstacles that you, as government parties, do not want to jump over. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's her!]] They wanted to clarify from the beginning – no matter how many hard-working people there are in Austria: It must not be more than 5 percent! And that's where you had to become suspicious. First point. Secondly, Mr Scheuch. It would have been useful before such a regulation was introduced into the world, thus raising expectations among the people concerned that one might ask: What is the problem for many? Where do the problems actually lie? We have on the one hand a lot of people... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] This is very funny, Mr Scheuch. Your interest in your willingness to deal with this issue is obviously not very great, but no matter what, Mr Scheuch, I do not mind. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I'm interested in this, less your speech!]] It would have been a good idea, Mr Scheuch, to make it clear once about where the problem lies. A problem is: There are people just before the retirement age who are too sick to work. This is clear from the statistics also available to the Federal Minister. Second problem: We still have completely different life expectancys among the different professional groups – and there has been no investigation in Austria since the 1960s. Yes, please, my dear colleagues workers' representatives from the FPÖ, why don't you worry that it is still in Austria, in this country, that one can't get 70 years old if they're working hard, and the other – thank God, I'm glad about it – can get between 80 and 90 years old? There are totally sublime life expectations, still – and you know, Mr Walch, that there are one and the other – but the whole pension right does not depend at all on them. I tell you, Mrs Federal Minister, you might have done well to get the relevant results of the investigation. There are no studies on this subject in Austria. Although it is tried to differentiate the different life expectancy somehow by income levels, that is not enough. In the Federal Republic of Germany there are such investigations, in Switzerland there are such investigations, in Austria they are not available. You didn't do all that. You have those – tens of thousands! – do not take into account those who are already too sick before the pension to work and who receive neither unemployment benefit nor an invalidity pension, which are sent around by the offices, so that they are downgraded to bitters somewhere. You didn't look at that and neither did you see the different life expectations that exist. I know it's probably an overload for any pension system, which has to be taken into account in some way, but you have put in the world a completely useless, cynical regulation. And I will prove that to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is useless and cynical to put into the world a heavy-worker regulation that promises people to be able to claim a heavy-worker pension, and at the same time to conceal that someone from his 15th to his 49th. You can calculate, that is, 34 years of hard work, and you can't get a heavy-worker's pension. - You say that's fair?- Oh, my God! That has anything to do with justice?- Oh, my God! In the Committee, one of the ‘blitzing’ colleagues from ÖVP or BZÖ/FPÖ has come up with: There's no such thing as that! Who's been working hard at the age of 15? Have an idea, ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about the people who now, 2006/2007, want to claim this scheme at the age of 60. Do you know when these people started working? – In the 1960s, and there have been enough people in this country – because there has not yet been any developed employee, apprentice protection et cetera – who did 15 heavy work at the construction site. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] Don't say no, Mr Tancsits! Should I introduce to you those who are still in a position to come here? Do you really want to see people march? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That would be a solution!]] I would allow you to have to deal more with these people, it would be good for you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There are these people – and all these people now explain: No, for you we have not made this arrangement; Sorry, you made your 34 hard work years too early; Bad luck, you'd have done it later! – It is pure to say cynicism: If you had only done hard work at the age of 50, you would have been covered by the heavy worker scheme! Now I'm telling you something about the border you've moved in: It is clear to me that the pension insurance scheme is interested in a regulation that it can manage for practical reasons, and it is clear to me that what you originally put into the world, namely a heavy work scheme covering the years of hard work throughout the working life, is not practical, because the years of heavy work are insurmountable. But what you've done is a simple bill by saying: Let's just look at the last 20 years! We look at who brings together between 40 and 60 ten years! I am now telling you about these ten years, Mr Tancsits, the following: If someone works shifts and on six working days he has to bring this shift work together during the night, between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m., then a heavy worker between 40 and 60 – as old as he has to be – will not be able to bring these six working days together within a year. Then: He has six weeks of vacation, and that means that at least two months fail in which he has vacation, and there he does not have six shift days. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Absurd!]] You know that very well! The heavy worker also has sick leave. If you are older and you do a stressful job, you probably have a disease problem more often. But even if it is the normal disease that is common in Austria, on average 13, 14 or 15 days, these times are naturally missing. That is to say, there is no serious work every year that has been done for at least three months. That means: A person who needs 10 years of hard work under your scheme between 40 and 60 must do at least fifteen years of hard work. And these show me who manages to experience this in some way in health and at work, in employment! There is little, you know, and that's exactly why you made this arrangement – not that's why to help people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They're not because there's really the 5 percent. Mr Walch knows these people, he is the works councillor, but doesn't say anything about it, but he thinks that this is a good rule. [[Abg. Walch: I will speak to you anyway!]] What are you saying about these statements, about what I have said here, Mr Walch? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: If you stop, he'll come to it!]] How old do your people get on construction? Tell me clearly! What do these people have of this scheme if they still have to do some serious work for 15 or 14 years between 40 and 60, so that they can go into retirement – probably completely broken – in a pension where they still have to pay discounts? That's not fair! That's not necessary! I'll tell you: This arrangement is cynical, is a cynism for those affected! Go back to the start, Mrs. Federal Minister! We have said that to you often enough, but you have not welcomed this advice. You then, still you have said: No, we're on a good path that heavy-worker regulations in principle have to redesign, and we're still coming back and saying: That's a super regulation, the best in the world! Everyone is working in Austria so that they can look away! – You don't believe that! In conclusion: The same applies, unfortunately, although I am quite right for Mr Tancsits, when he believes that this is a difficult problem, for the rules on widows' and widows' pensions. I would have liked you if the speaking time had come to read out the shocking example of a woman who writes what happened to her father or now to her mother after the father died ten years before his pension – and that is not typical – had no income. Why no income? Because the woman worked and thank God deserved something over this border. But that also means: no widow's pension for those concerned, for them, the mother who survived. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Walch also has this letter! That's him.]] This example illustrates, I believe, clearly enough that all that you have now tried in the widowing scheme from one time to the other is far from sufficient to achieve what it is all about: a regulation that would guarantee an independent pension for all aged people. That would be a clean rule!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8605	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8626	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, listen briefly. As far as construction workers are concerned, you don't need to make any regulations for me, you don't need to be afraid. Then: We have maintained that it will also facilitate access to disability pension for unskilled occupations from 57 onwards. ==References== [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Stop...!]] Watch out! [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In the calculation and in the money you have a problem, you can see that at the BAWAG scandal! I don't want to hear any contradiction from the SPÖ. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] The following: What is it like for someone from 57? Is your age going to invalidity pension? Let a specialist calculate how many deposits this one has! Name: Not more than 1.8 percent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The oillinger has never been on a construction before! He has no idea! This is a professional politician!]] [[Call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, how do you feel? You're in a party where scandals are on the agenda all the time? What Faith Have You're still in the public at all? [[Abg. Silhavy: Better than in a party...!]] Does the truth hurt so much? I know. Whoever is guilty, he screams! The social partners have cooperated in the pension reform – in the pension insurance reform! – and at the time I had several discussions with the former President of the ÖGB about the heavy-worker regulation and said to him: Fritz, let's do this together! But all at once came shortly before the conclusion of the command of the SPÖ's chief leader: don't agree, let something happen quickly so that you don't have to agree, for otherwise we can no longer suder and whirl! We have secured pensions in Austria! We abolished the privileges! [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, didn't do it. The Privilegienstadl is going around her again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us take a look at the pensions of trade unionists! – Fritz Vergestnich: 80 percent of the final reference – at the expense of ÖGB members! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great! Scandal!]] Mr Nürnberger: exactly the same. Now they've disappeared. That's what it said: Get out of here quickly! Pepathy! Let's leave you the debt and all that! Col. Nürnberger received 24 monthly fees for completion – at the expense of Austrian ÖGB members! – I have to say that is irresponsible. It's corruption! Because you're talking so much about the heavy-worker regulation: As I have already said, the social partners have also cooperated. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the SPD chairman Beck – I do not know if he has anything to do with you, but probably he wants nothing more to do with you, because if in Austria such social democrats have something to talk about, where there is always one scandal after another, he probably wants to have nothing to do with the Austrian SPÖ – has found great praise for this heavy-worker regulation in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Aha!]] Please, send it to us, Mrs. Federal Minister, and there were many requests from other countries. – This is one time in Europe! Watch out, my colleague. [[Abg. Ollinger's in conversation.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He doesn't listen!]] This is how we are being talked about in the Federal Republic of Germany! [[Abg. Oillinger: Nobody's interested in this!]] But there are also people in the Federal Republic of Germany who are against the workers. For example, the former Vice-Chancellor Müntefering has publicly said in a television interview that pensioners should play in the lottery so that they can afford something on their evenings. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say something about the heavy-worker regulation too!]] When I read in the press release of the new ÖGB president Hundstorfer – he is a parish servant, and I know he doesn't have much or little idea of an ASVGler, and such a one should be ÖGB chairman? – that he criticizes the heavy work pension, I wonder: Although he knows that his predecessor has voted in favour until shortly before the conclusion? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It also criticises the rules on the construction industry. This is the trade union president, Driemer von der SPÖ, to mention. It is not prohibited to negotiate with the entrepreneurs once and to say that the construction workers should pay more money into the building workers' holiday and treatment fund so that they may be able to retire a little earlier. Not we politicians are guilty that the state of health among the construction workers is getting worse as a result of the many benefits and due to the stress, the entrepreneurs are already a bit guilty, and therefore they should be asked to pay for the cash. [[Abg. Silhavy: Look here!]] [[Abg. Sburny:... Class fight!]] That would actually be the task of the social partners! That's what I really have to say: This heavy-worker regulation is the right measure in this area! As Mr. Hundstorfer still criticizes the fact that women do not enter into the heavy-worker scheme, I have to inform him and tell him: The women can reach the age of 60 by 2024. They will be retired for a lifetime, and later they will be included in the heavy-worker scheme as well. [[Abg. Oils: How?]] Mr Oellinger, we have created a heavy-worker scheme, where in the last 20 years only 10 years of hard work are necessary to be included. You know exactly how it looked before. We'll secure the pensions! [[Abg. No, that's not true!]] We abolished the privileges! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The Social Democrats are still dealing with the union. But I hope that this will soon be heard in the past: that the executives will be exchanged with the entire Bureau and that the interests of the employees in Austria will finally be dealt with over-participally by the trade union association.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8891	The next item is the speech by Mr Leutner. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8912	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walch, if I am moved by the visa affair with the prominent names associated with it, if I am putting the situation at Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank AG with the names associated with it to my mind, and if I am bringing the occupations and the names associated with them to my mind, I can only say: You don't need to come and moralize here today on the high Ross! It would be better if you took care of your own store once! Then you would come on a wretched donkey. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walch: BAWAG! ÖGB!]] In contrast to my previous speaker, I would like to address this draft law a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft law that has rightly received great attention in the population. What is the origin of the debate about the heavy labour law? I think you've got to keep that in mind again. The origin of the debate about the heavy labour law was in the pension reforms since 2000. For, as always, ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament: There has been a massive deterioration in people's access to pension, in increasing the age of seizure and, of course, in increasing the amounts. That was the core! Then the government came and told the people: Yes, we have to do all of this – but the heavy workers are not affected by these deteriorations! Whoever works hard is not affected by these things at all. – That was the impression you gave to the population at the beginning of this discussion. [[Abg. Riepl: That's exactly how it was!]] Yeah, that's it! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this discussion, the government painted brilliant pictures of those who are not all heavy workers. And at the beginning, these speeches left an impression that they believed: Yes, there is really a government at work that is a real concern for the protection of heavy workers! But what has become of it? What does this law stand for now? What's it got to show? Interestingly, we see that by 2010 only 300 to 500 workers and employees will benefit from this legislation. – That’s the truth about what’s going on here today! In the medium term, the pension insurance itself, which obviously needs to know, comes in 1 500 from the ASVG area. Mrs Minister, I have always listened closely to you during these debates, and I can only say one thing now: After months of negotiations, you presented a draft law here today, with virtually no one coming in the field of application in that country. – This is reality, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] That's the real result – and that's what you have to answer! I'm not gonna hide here today that I believed that this law was going to come out more. That was my expectation. This is likely to be expected by all social politicians. They know that there are many employers on this side of the House, and they have said that they are not the mother Teresa, who will be very much negotiating their interests. [[pointing to the ÖVP series]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] That's legitimate. We did not expect this in any other way in the interests of the workers. But that at the end of the day a complete nothing comes out for workers and employees has even exceeded our expectations, ladies and gentlemen! – This is the current situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You really can't say that we refused. Mrs Minister, you can confirm this: We were ready for negotiation day and night, also sitting at the table. The opposition has always offered better solutions, including in the Committee, and has repeatedly said: The best definition of heavy work is of no use to us if the pension conditions for heavy workers remain so rigid that no one benefits from the scheme in the result. But unfortunately, after the long debate, you decided to do so: We don't need you! That is why the law now looks like it. One last comment: Women really don't get into this law, because if you wanted to integrate women into this law, then you should have expected 40 years of insurance, because 40 years of contributions do not reach anyone in that country. In my opinion, we should have had access not to 60, Mr Tancsits, but to 55, because you also allow men to retire five years earlier as a heavy worker. I don't understand why women just don't. There is today a bill to which one must say: You, Mrs Minister, have not even managed to put forward a concept of the future for heavy workers in this country, which deserves the name even close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e8996	The next item is the report by Mr Neugebauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9017	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Dear colleagues! In one, I agree with Mr Öllinger: The basics for staying in the pension in the event of long work in heavy work, such as in the form of death tables, how they use the insurance – but unfortunately they do not give any really differentiated information – would have helped us much further. What has been assembled here has been the subject of one-and-a-half-year discussions in expert circles, including the involvement of the social partners. We have not done very easily in the matter of very bulky matter, because, because there is no valid definition of heavy work, one had to rely on the night heavy work law and also bring in the findings of occupational medicine and medicine. The alternative would have been not to do anything in this area, i.e. not to make serious work for the pension as it happened 30 years before. I'd rather, we'd set a start, which we could eventually develop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This law has created a heavy-work pension scheme for all occupational groups, including those employed in the public service. This access has already been recognised internationally as a guide. It is clear that only a part of the previous years can be recorded. Please imagine the chaos if we have to deal with allegation, counterclaim and recognition of heavy work pensions in court for decades! A regulation which this House decides must be meaningful and manageable. This has also been clearly pointed out by the colleagues from the Pension Insurance Institute. Finally, we are entering New Zealand here – it is important for me to say this here; I have already said that in committee – not only in Austria, but also internationally. It was also important that we have established that an expert commission, set up in the Federal Ministry, will regularly evaluate this heavy-work pension scheme. I think this is an important start. In addition, the public service has also succeeded in including those areas which have a high risk to life and life in their professional field of activity. These are our executive officials, these are the colleagues who work for the defence of the state. Starting Federal Government: I should like to remind you that, with the broad agreement of representatives of all the parties, the Federal Force Reform Commission, chaired by Mr Helmut Zilk, has achieved the best wishes for recovery to Mr Altbourger from this point of view! – and that this reform in 2010 provides for a number of structural optimizations and a complete change in the dimension of the army, so that it will not be possible to use some 6,000 of the expected colleagues on other adequate jobs. It is therefore necessary to set up special suspension measures for about 3,000 of them. I should therefore like, together with my colleague, Mr Fauland, to table an amendment aimed at socially disseminating this necessary reform in the area of Austrian defence, and thank you very much, Madam President, for the fact that this amendment has been distributed accordingly. In this way, we ensure social responsibility for an area subject to significant change, including social competence, and as Chairman of the Public Service Trade Union, I can also be pleased to see the social partners working well, despite all the unacceptably, between the Federal Government and the Public Service Union, in difficult times of the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9081	The amendment tabled by Mr Neugebauer, which has just been tabled by Mr Neugebauer, has been explained in his key points, is therefore properly implemented, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr President, I should also like to make the request distributed without delay on the basis of its size. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9198	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9219	Madam President. High house! I now have the arguments of Mr Tancsits and Mr Walch listened as they tried to say how good their heavy-worker regulations actually are. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't listen to my colleague Neugebauer?]] But, unfortunately, they didn't get through because they know anyway. If they say, Yes, what do you want, women? Of course, this does not apply to you, because you have the privilege of retirement at the age of 60, please hold your mouth, otherwise we will raise your retirement age to 65 years! – If social policy is serious social policy, as Mr Tancsits mentioned it, then they can ride under the wheel of their social policy, as small as they are! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That you forgot the women, no, that you didn't want to take them in, you could stand if you wanted to. They are also talking about the heavy-worker regulation and have never spoken of a heavy-worker scheme because it would not be appropriate in this case anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] You're right, and you're right. We women could already deal with you, and we'll show you somehow what it really looks like. You will not really believe that if today 1.5 percent of men who retire each year, you may have a claim to this scheme so that the world will change. They have made it worse, but certainly not improved! This is not progress, it is a huge disadvantage, for all those who do hard work, and especially for those who work in the care sector. This is because a large group of those involved are coming out of this area, and that is, you will not think possible again, to 96 percent still women. Mrs Minister, now I really have to tell you something to give you a little sense of practice; I do not expect much, but at least a little. I recently met a woman who was a nurse. She started at the age of 18, did the nursing school, and then started as a nurse. She has practiced the profession for 17 years, and then her cross was “hin”, so it is, her spine has been able to cut her off. She was in Karenz because she had children, after that she got back in and wanted to work again as a nurse, but that was no longer feasible with her backbone damage. She's been lucky then, I'm saying she came to the care quality management. So she can now practically make an office job with her training, but still she can hardly sit anymore. This woman can flatten your rules, however you call them, in the back and in the front, for her there is simply no such thing. Tell these people! Be so fair and honest and tell these people! Say that to that man – I happen to know him – who has pulled up and down 25 years of wheelchair on the first and second floors; but not one, but a whole boarding school full! We were 160 children, then there was no lift, so we were pulled up and down. Then the home was relocated, and there was a lift. The cross of this man was broken, for that there was a lift. That was 21 years ago. Do you think this man, with his broken cross now, 61 years old, has a claim to a heavy worker arrangement? – He has nothing to do with all this! He's had bad luck like everyone else. Mrs. Minister, I just find it unbearable that you're imagining people, that people who are still taking this from you – it's getting less and less, but there's still a few – and that everything's not right. All this is not right, people will be really behind and on the front – I can't say it, but you know what I mean! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Trunk.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Everything can be said inside here, I have heard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... well-kept language!]] If a speaker – either it was Mr Walch or Mr Tancsits, I don't know exactly anymore – is saying: this is something, and we have to look at it and then change it again, then you say: That's a punch! Take your pussy back! You don't forgive yourself, because you've built so much puss that one doesn't notice either. [[Cheerfulness, as well as congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That means you won't be producing any highlights or any newspaper reports. They're all used to that anyway, that's the regular case, so you won't forgive yourself. Take it back! And if you want to do something, do something decent and something that really brings people something! [[Abg. Neugebauer: You will explain to us what is neat!]] But don't sell people for stupid! People are no stupider than some who believe they're stupid. Don't cheat!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9328	The next point is Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9349	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's been addressed a few times today: We are entering the new country with this heavy-worker scheme, and it is an important building block in a pension scheme that we have started in good time, that it is fair for the future, that it is fair to the future, and that it is above all a very sustainable pension system. I think we've done the homework very well in time. Because if we look at demographic development, not only in Austria, but across Europe, and if we look at how to think about how to reform the pension system in other countries, how to discuss the increase in the retirement age – for example, in our neighbouring country Germany to 67 years, in the Nordic countries already around 70 years – how to discuss how to secure pensions for the young people in the future, then, I think, we have recognized the challenges in time. All in all, we have established a pension system which provides for flexible transitional schemes, such as corridor pension, a system that provides that people who are incapacity to work, who are sick or invalid may retire earlier. I would like to say quite clearly here that I feel that in the speeches of the previous speakers of the opposition, I have been tried to convey that the heavy work regulation is a replacement for incapacity for work and for the invalidity pension. That's not it! It's not a replacement, it's not an alternative, but it's an additional option to go into retirement earlier on due to heavy work in the course of working life, especially in the last 20 years. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] Since many Members have already come to terms with the opposition and have repeatedly said that women are being disadvantaged, I would like to say here that there has never been so much for women and their living conditions in the area of pension reform. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am thinking, for example, of the increase in pensionable periods for child rearing to four years. I am thinking of increasing the basis for calculating these times. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] I remember that in the future women will benefit especially if only seven more years of out-of-house employment are needed to obtain the 15 years for the acquisition of their own pension and can be improved with child rearing or with a favourable care pension. I am thinking here, for example, of the extra-tourist increase in the compensatory allowance rate, which in turn favours two thirds of women. This is important and necessary. All parties are always talking about self-employed age insurance for women, and I think we have also tried in recent years to correct the mistakes of the past a little. For much has been said before, but little has been done. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] We have addressed things very responsibly, especially in the area of heavy work. We have also created a room to offer additional services. This room will always forget a little bit. We have reduced pension privileges in the area of pension reform where we have and have influence, where we have competence. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You made a post security reform! In the worst way!]] [[Further call-ins]] I would also like to say this again: There are no more political pensions, and there is a need for solidarity in the case of old political pensions. [[Abg. He has already forgotten that!]] We therefore have very strong privileges in the area of higher pensions. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He has already forgotten that!]] I am very glad that today we are also reducing another privilege under this Amending Act, as the collective contractual partners should have already demonstrated their ability to act. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You can't expect that!]] For in the private sector, but also in the public service, it is no longer customary for you, if you have a temporary high head office, to end the period and the original posts are no longer available, to be able to complete your service time at the same terms. [[Abg. Silhavy: That has become up-to-date through you!]] There are no longer any public service, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: This has become up-to-date with your post chess policy!]] That is why I say that there should be no social security in the future. That's not a threat, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reality that we have to respond to. Where there are still privileges and where the government or Parliament can change something, we must do it. Unfortunately, after 35 years of service, there are still institutions in which there are high pensions and where it is possible to get 80 percent of the last relationship. [[Abg. Neudeck: At BAWAG you don't even need them! There's a service apartment that's going to be thrown down!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have put an important sign with a good attempt – I say quite consciously: with a good attempt – with which we entered New Zealand, for the people who have worked hard, because they have a right to retire earlier. Working hard means, among other things, also in care. Here, too, I have been very much committed as a woman and as a minister to finding a comprehensive and good criterion for those who work in the field of care. We have taken in particular the physically difficult workers, also in line with the existing night heavy work law. I am glad that there is no discussion about the calories today. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Don't worry, it's coming!]] Because in the Night Heavy Labour Act, there has been this possibility for almost 20 years. However, we have also given a clear signal to people with disabilities that, if they are severely burdened, they have this possibility of course. Therefore, I believe, with “60 – 20 – 10” a formula has been found that gives the hardworking people in Austria good opportunities to retire even earlier. To all that has been said about the fact that only so many and so many can retire and some cannot at all, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: These are speculations. For those who have been serious about the matter know that we have far too few experience here and that the figures put on by the various institutions are only estimates. We have – and I would like to make this quite clear – with the extension of the long-term insurance scheme for the next few years also provided better opportunities for women to retire earlier. [[Abg. Silhavy: New privileges?]] That is why I say that the regulation is enforceable, it is comprehensible, and above all we have acted to speak instead. I believe that one must also have the courage to do something in a system that we can make future, in this area, also for those who need it especially. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You must have the courage to incompetence!]] On what you said, Mr Oellinger: Those who are on vacation don't count that anymore, and those who are sick don't count that anymore!, I have to tell you you're not well informed there. It will be the same way that, as in all other systems, even in other pension systems, this will of course not be calculated extra, or will fall out, but these times are, of course, included. [[Abg. Oils: Stand in there!]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: How about reading the draft?]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is why I ask you to leave the truth on this matter where it belongs. You know that in the area of the regulation, we also have to set up appropriate events, and within the framework of a corresponding act, this will also be clarified if there are ambiguities here. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can say that the facts in general speak for a good Austrian pension system. The level of female pensions increased by 15 percent between 2001 and 2004. The compensatory allowance rate, I have already said, has been increased extra-tourally. We still have a different retirement age – which is fair – and we will continue to have a very transparent and own pension account for everyone in the future. That's why I'm saying: The heavy worker scheme is an important building block, including for the future of a good and safe pension system.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9602	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Abg. Neudeck: But only because he didn't listen!]] Mr deputies, you know the rules: Firstly, the situation to be corrected, then the corrected situation in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9637	Madam President, I am correcting two points. On the one hand, the Federal Minister has claimed that there are no more political pensions. – That’s wrong! There are, of course, still people who can retire under the policy-making law. Secondly, Mrs Federal Minister, you have claimed that holidays and other mistimes have been taken into account in calculating working hours. – You have to explain this, Mrs Federal Minister, because, unlike your presentation, it is said in the heavy work regulation: “Activities that are carried out under physical or psychologically particularly burdensome conditions shall also apply during the night, i.e. between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m., at least six hours each and at least on six working days – working days, not holiday days! – in the calendar month, “unless most of the time is spent on working time”. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you interpret something else from this heavy work regulation, then you have to justify it by definition. [[Intervocational calls]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But this is not an actual correction!]] [[Further call-ins]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9692	The next speaker is Mrs Mittermüller. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9713	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today's heavy-worker regulation provides a clear improvement in the pension scheme for people who are working hard. We have not aroused any false hopes, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ Group. On the contrary, we have taken the first important and right step. There have also been difficult working people in the past, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Group, where your achievements have been for these people so far. In particular, this regulation takes into account women – and I would really like to contradict the previous speakers who have claimed something else – once because of the assessment of physical hard work in women with 1,400 working calories, which is contrary to the assessment of men, where it is still set with 2,000 working calories, but also because of the fact that heavy work with increasing age is considered particularly stressful. This also benefits women, we know that women in particular have to bear the double burden of work and family. However, women benefit from the heavy-worker scheme in so far as – and this has now been clearly expressed by the Federal Minister of the Interior – as the particularly stressful activity of the care labour is the reason for an earlier retirement age. Mr Oellinger referred earlier to the shortened life expectancy under particularly demanding working conditions. In this respect too, the regulation is correct, important and targeted, and this is especially true for women. In the care of sick and disabled people, in hospice and palliative medicine, in facilities for mentally ill people, almost 90 percent of the employees are women. It is already right, high mental and physical strains await this Workers, and the sight of pain and suffering demands a lot of emotional strength. The heavy workers regulation will therefore raise and promote the high level of care and care services in Austria and is, under Federal Minister Ursula Haubner, another step in the recognition of this valuable work performance in our society. We are on the right track with this regulation under our Minister for Social Affairs, and it has been mentioned by Mr Walch before: We are also a model for Germany, because the SPD politicians Beck and Müntefering regard our Austrian model as an example and want to introduce similar things to Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9755	Mrs Bundesminister Haubner spoke again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9777	Madam President. I should like to point out: We have a regulation, the so-called heavy-work regulation, which sets out particularly demanding occupational activities, which regulates the reporting of working time, which also defines what is a month of heavy-working. ==References====External links== I may inform you of what is there for the month of heavy work: “§ 4 A month of heavy work is every calendar month in which one or more activities are carried out in accordance with § 1 para. 1 were exercised at least to the extent that one month of insurance, as defined in § 231 Z 1, suffered. a ASVG. Work interruptions do not take into account as long as compulsory insurance continues to exist in pension insurance.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9811	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9833	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Government’s dizziness with the special scheme for heavy workers: More justice will not make it." “From in the drawing wolf with the heavy nonsense.” – Please, this is the editorial by Karl Ettinger in the "Presse" of the 1. ==References== [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: Complete nonsense that!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With these statements, the journalist Ettinger has put it to the fore in two sentences, because this heavy-worker regulation is merely a result of injustices. This heavy-worker regulation, presented by the government of ÖVP and its colorful coalition partner today, once again shows very clearly how seriously you take this group of people, who worked under the most difficult conditions for a lifetime, did hard work and hard work. [[Abg. Fauland: What did you do for her?]] Mr Fauland, I am 43 years old. Year of service in a steelworks in Donawitz, where voestalpine employs, and thanks to God it was not so difficult. Every day, ladies and gentlemen come to me who suffered serious health damage 50 years ago – they unfortunately do not fall under this heavy-worker scheme according to your ideas. If you're talking about discussing, They were not willing to take up, take up our ideas and, above all, those people who are disadvantaged under your rules, who also receive this benefit. [[Abg. Rädler: And you? How long have you been doing nothing for her?]] This regulation is a game of mourning, according to the motto: Imagine, there is a heavy worker arrangement, but no one can claim it! – We have shown from the SPÖ that there should be improvements, because where a will is, there is also a way. [[Abg. Rädler: How many Social Ministers have you set up?]] But Again, as in the past, you have passed over according to your principle: Get over it! What we're doing is right! They're not interested in people's concerns outside. You look forward to providing your ex-ministers with good posts. That's the difference. We are out with people every day and care for their concerns. [[Abg. Fauland: What did you do for them?]] With the present legislation, the Austrian workers are severely disappointed and disadvantaged according to the very large-scale announcement propaganda of this Federal Government. In addition, a very large social policy opportunity was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! The expected and hoped-for goal of enabling people who have carried out particularly stressful activities or who have carried out an earlier retirement, is totally missing with this – so I call it – Pushgesetz. For this reason, we Socialists and Socialists also reject the heavy-worker regulation presented. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There are some morals here in this House, especially in the government groups. I made the statement on the Committee and made the communication: My wife had four days before the municipal election in Styria on the 9th. March 2005 to get a call, a murder threat. A few days later, the person who did this was identified by the collection of call data. He wrote and signed seven pages in person and apologized to my wife. This person was a candidate on the city council list of the ÖVP in my community. And the sadness is that the Member of Parliament to the National Council Hannes Missethon – unfortunately he is not here now – has expressed himself and said: The ÖVP will provide this person with the best lawyer. – That’s so sad, but that’s exactly the sudel box of the ÖVP and Lopatkas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This person was – and that is why I said it – legally sentenced a few minutes ago. That's important!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9934	Next, Mr Donabauer. His welcome time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e9956	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, you are following this discussion! High house! I think, Mr President, that has not been a good contribution. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you have to deal with anyone, do it! It is of course available to you in the rule of law, and you will also use it. Today, I think, we should turn to a discussion on pension reform. [[Call the SPÖ: Listen!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I've been listening to you. In fact, you have nothing to offer except your polemics, which I have been hearing again and again since the year 2000 with changed words. Where are your proposals? To this day, you have not made any contributions that could have been seriously discussed. You just talked about all this being unreasonable. You know: Whoever does nothing makes the biggest mistake! – If you don’t want to believe that, you don’t need to go far and not go far, but just call your friends in Germany. I am very sorry that in an economically strong country, social policy has suffered such a decline, which has failed so massively, only because for years nothing has been changed. We had an almost finished pension reform law here in 1997, and I must tell you it was you who said no. Even members of the Federal Government of your party considered this to be a mistake at the time. Now on the matter: If you're saying it's all so huge, it's all so bad and you could do better, I'm gonna ask you: Where were you, then, when it came to safeguarding occupational incapacity or invalidity pensions, where employees who do not meet the relevant conditions, although they have done their work, cannot even retire at the age of 57? - That's your failure, please! I say it even more clearly to you: When I passed on such interventions to the Chamber of Workers, I experienced twice – I give this to the record here – that the representation was rejected by this post. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a noble move, it is not a good thing, it is not a social policy of the way you always introduce and present it here! I think it is high time we had an honest discussion on this important question. Point 2: Heavy worker regulation. They have actually been friends with the model. You said: Yes, we are for it! They have only taken a different position on the question of discount. Then go over here and say, The criteria for the heavy-worker regulation, as you have confirmed it, are okay, the discount does not fit us!, but don't be so high or so superficial and don't say: All that is said and done is unacceptable! - That's not true! I think it would really be time for us to have a proper debate on this important issue, that we should stop the uncertainty of citizenship and start to say what we have done with this pension reform: We have started a change in time, so that the young people – and these are the system’s burden carriers – can build on the fact that in 10, 20 or 30 years or whenever they get a secure benefit from the pension system of the Republic of Austria. See, that's the perception of responsibility! If you believe that only we see everything bad, I refer to Professor Marin – he is well-known to you, he even belongs to your community of faith, he is a consultant to the German Federal Government. Professor Marin says to the Pension Act Austrian: This is the most recent regulatory law in Europe, it has only one mistake: ten years too late. – That’s what an expert from your ranks says! And you want to question that, too? I think you don't want to discuss seriously. And this is the worst in terms of a change that is urgently needed. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that the regulation presented is an improvement in that we have shortened the observation period. That is why we will also agree to this regulation, because it is a reorientation that we urgently need.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10006	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10028	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government on the government bank! High house! I could now, of course, quote my previous speaker against myself. Meaningful – how was that? –: That wasn't a good speech or a good contribution or something. If you are talking about people's uncertainty about the pension scheme, you should talk to Mrs. Minister about the pension folder. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: And much more!]] – Much more, with several people. You could do a lot of things about pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' But my main topic, what really provokes me now, because it came from both the Minister and several others, partly with a mimik, for example with Mr Tancsits, which I can only interpret as a smooth joy of damage –: The women are not worse. They have – haha – anyway, the earlier retirement age. And maybe that's what the SPÖ wants to do? Mr Tancsits, with all understanding for policy angle trains below the belt line in election times: You could still keep a little plausibility – but that's your decision. What logic is that? – We have two sexes with their respective regular retirement age. This is still different, with good reason. And you're going here and making a heavy workman's arrangement, saying, For one sex there is an earlier retirement age, for the other sex there is still only the regular retirement age. That’s what you call “balanced, ” “no discrimination against women ” and“ the best thing that this government can do to women at all. ” I am now leaving out what your pension reform has brought everything to a massive deterioration for women. I only refer to the calculation period: the 15 best years compared to 40 years. Show me the women of today's generation who will then be dealing with this, who get out better than before. So please, present where the 15 best years produce a worse result than what you have done, namely, 40 years of calculation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is particularly striking: The whole thing's got a system. System target number one is: As few people as possible should be covered by the heavy work scheme, preferably in such a way that they can also take a look at the mathematically few talented people at a glance. System target number two is however: Certain people should be preferred to fall among them and not others – and by chance men are to be found among those who do not want to fall below them and the women among the others. I can make that easy for you, too. Your famous arrangement 60/20/10, let's take the example care area: Where do we have qualified staff in the nursing sector, i.e. women who have been trained, nurses, for example, who come to their contribution or insurance years, as you prescribe them, i.e. 40 or 45 years, plus the 20/10 rule? How's that supposed to go up to 60? Year of life? And if I can already retire at 60 years of age, possibly seriously ill, what is there a heavy work scheme for which I cannot use? Or let's look at how you define hard work. This is the classic definition, focused on male work, which, I say once salopp, is tailored for work on the blast furnace or on the construction site, i.e. under chemical or physical influences, regular heat or cold and so on. And then the famous calories. I do not want to pass it over now, extra for you, Mrs Minister. Minister! In the last debate, I have already advised you to talk to Mrs Rauch-Kallat about calorie consumption, state of health and so on, and to compare how many working calories a 50-kilometer woman, a 50-kilometer man, a 90-kilometer man, a 90-kilometer woman with equal work. How useful is your calculation that you are presenting? If I look at what you have to say in the explanations, what you want to say in the interpretation, that's just cockbucking. They present a study from 1982 – which is almost historically to be described when it comes to pension systems and health research – in which the construction of basement walls is mentioned as an example. With today's construction site technology – which my colleagues will certainly be able to explain to me – where is exactly the difference whether the crane sets the basement wall as a block or the crane sets the first floor as a block? I'd like to be told about that. Or what I haven't yet understood: Why is iron braiding on a medium-sized construction site included, while iron braiding on the large construction site may not consume so many calories? It is also striking that agricultural and forestry activities – which meet your clientele – are recorded on a flat-rate basis in contrast to the care sector. In the care sector, you will be very different in your legislative text and will ensure that the entire care area is not covered. Not everything that is hard to work physically or that is psychologically burdened – a previous speaker has also responded to the psychological side – is covered by it. Heavy work in normal nursing care or at a children's cancer ward, which I think is psychologically difficult, is not included in your regulations. So: Even there, you seem to be getting something right, don't regulate it and select so that only a few are left. However, the amendment that you are presenting to us at the same time is exciting, because it is clear that it is the case. If you want to be political, it's all right! In the case of heavy work, it is said that the financial impact is cost-neutral. – It can only cost nothing. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then you will come with an amendment to the federal reform and the use groups that need to be changed. This may cost an average of € 1 million a year for years, which is no problem for you. – You measure with a variety of measurements! The fact is that difficult working people and, in particular, women remain on the track. I can only say: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10088	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10110	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. It is already clear and understandable that the SPÖ is very frustrated, because social ministers of the Social Democrats have not brought together for decades what our Federal Minister was able to implement, namely finally to implement a heavy-worker scheme for Austria and for the persons concerned. [[Abg. Riepl: There's no even a applause for that!]] I come now to the second part: We have to deal with the matters of service law within the framework of the service law novels, and there is also the opposite of what the SPÖ still has on 1. On 3 March 2006, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the European Parliament and to the Council concerning the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. – Mr Darabos said here at the speaker's desk: “Your government says: I don't even care! Pact fidelity is not at the executive! Let them ascend to the barricades!" Even here you are now taught a better person, because, of course, the heavy-worker regulations apply to officials – Mr Neugebauer has already done so – who are exposed to a higher risk potential, whether in the area of executives, the judicial system or the federal army. What I would like to discuss a little further is the amendment tabled by Members Neugebauer and Fauland on military reform 2010, which I believe is a very important part of the positive and optimal implementation of this reform. It is about the fact that, in a four-party agreement, a reform commission has decided on a restructuring of the federal army and this has been implemented by this government. However, this reform has meant that there has to be reductions and cuts in the areas of the federal army, and of course people are affected. We need people, especially the soldiers. It was unacceptable for us that someone who loses his job – not for his own sake, but for his own body to be dissolved – has a disadvantage. With this amendment, we have made a loophole which allows the reform of the army to be implemented as planned, but which also enables all those comrades who have lost their jobs to have no negative financial impact when the reform is implemented. It will be seen how social democracy will contribute to this measure, whether it rejects it or agrees with it, but it was important. I think we are on the best way to complete this military reform. This reform will be implemented in spite of all unconfirmed calls. The central office is now under way and its reform is being completed. As a member of the BZÖ, I hope that we can discuss the new Federal Workers' Act here and bring it to a positive conclusion even during this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10149	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10171	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate on this item on the agenda is only necessary today because you have deteriorated access to the pension a few years ago. Otherwise, we would not discuss this at all, just to clarify this once and for all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have already expressed this in the Committee and in various other discussions: media drumfire, a huge expectation of the affected colleagues – but only one handful of people will be covered by these rules. I shall allow a few brief comments to be made, because there will be some. But tell me you don't want to! – That would be easier, and one could have saved this month-long discussion. I would like to say to Mr Tancsits: It is clear why the Constitutional Court has objected precisely to this passage: because of course, the safeguarding of the last acquired standard of living must be guaranteed. – And the chance that constitutionality is guaranteed has not been used again! We have discussed this for a long time in the Committee, but again we have three questions. I said in committee: If we leave it to the coincidences or even the sad occasion of death, whether a survivors' pension is proper or simply disorderly, then we should have taken more time for this law. We have massively criticized this a few years ago when it was introduced and have therefore also criticized it this time. However, I would now like to turn to the much praised public service, also mentioned by Mr Neugebauer, and my previous speakers. It's nice to see how social partnership is celebrated. I am an old follower of it, but let us look at what the professional groups concerned want, ask for what they have a right to do. I said clearly in the Committee: According to the present legislative text and according to the regulation, the judicial guard is not at all excluded. – Laconian remark: According to the Federal Chancellor, discussions are already being held. You didn't even remember that you took over hundreds of customs guards in the interior area and dropped them out according to the Security Police Act! - Don't worry, they're not just reds! You also serve your own people, and they will thank you for it. Let me quote two or three points from the practice: First: When do the executive officials, who hold our heads around the clock for us – and we should always thank them again and again! – their main duty? – In reality, these are about 20 to 40. Year of life at night – under quotations – “at the front”. They also have more than 50 percent risk allowance. When do they get up in command stations? - Certainly only after that time. But then they all fall out of the scheme. That is, even if a person has done serious work in accordance with your own law for 15, 20 years using his life, you will throw him out by writing in, starting at 40. Year of life or the last 20 years. Now let's look at the danger allowance: If the executive then ascends to a leadership level, he falls down, no longer has more than 50, but only more 40 – second point, away! That is, you say you did something in the field of executives, but in reality, if you look at the individual cases, no one will be left – no one at all! The executive will thank you for this, including the former customs guards and the judicial guard. It really only remains a handful of people, and you should actually have the courage to admit that this has not succeeded. We have given you the opportunity to do something in the Committee, because we have always been in favour of doing something because there is a need for action, but you have not been ready. Mr Donabauer, yes, we were against the 1.8% discount, and we are still today, because we believe that the people who work for a lifetime do some heavy work, often using their own lives – and we are talking about hard work here! – deserve fair and fair treatment. For this fair and fair treatment there is social democracy, and that is why we are not at our disposal for the approval of this bill!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10247	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10268	Mr President. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The amendment of the Civil Service Law in 1979 made it possible to achieve important regulations, including for the public service. [[Abg. Marizzi: Which one?]] The most important fact is that public service is now also included in the heavy-worker pension. All activities defined in the two regulations of the heavy-worker pension also apply to the public service in full. [[Abg. Riepl: Now you have just heard that this is different!]] Work in particular is considered to be shift work during the night; work under heat or cold within the meaning of the Night Heavy Labour Act; Work under chemical or physical influences within the meaning of the Night Heavy Labour Act; occupational care of sick or disabled people with special treatment or care needs, such as in hospice or palliative medicine; work despite a reduction in the working capacity of 80 per cent and the right to care allowance at Stage III; Activities with increased risk where there is a high risk of body and life in use – as such, only activities of executive bodies that spend at least half of the monthly service in foreign service and of soldiers during foreign service, provided that at least half of the monthly service time is spent abroad. Thus, in addition to the nursing service, the executive service as well as certain military activities are now recognized as a heavy work. Since there has so far been no valid definition of heavy work, activities based on the Night Heavy Labour Act have been defined by the social partnership-occupied expert rounds, which justify heavy work. In addition, knowledge of occupational medicine and medicine has been taken into account in the definition process. The heavy-work pension scheme now applies uniformly to all occupational groups. This access is already recognised internationally as a guide. Access requirements for heavy-workers' pension are: 120 months of heavy-work within the 240 months prior to retirement; 45 years of insurance in the ASVG from the 15th century onwards. Year of life; 42 years of restable total service from the age of 18. Year of life. [[Abg. Marizzi: Stop reading, but talk!]] If these conditions are met, a retirement adjustment shall be made with the completion of the 60. Year of life. It then, ladies and gentlemen, takes a significantly reduced discount rate of 1.8 per cent per year compared to 4.2 per cent in the normal scheme. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Finally finish your lecture!]] The month of heavy work shall be considered to be one month if one or more taxing activities are carried out during at least 15 calendar days. This scheme has also made it possible to reach an important milestone for executive officials in particular. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention that it is clear to all of us that this regulation can be further developed in a positive sense. This is why an expert committee has been set up which regularly evaluates the heavy-work pension scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Take a follow-up hour at Dr. Pendl!]] The findings of this Commission as well as practical findings will be the basis for any further developments. All in all: an excellent arrangement that we would like to agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10361	The next item is the report by Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10383	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I think you have not had it easy in this regulation. It took two years for this heavy-worker regulation to be put on the table today. They have tried; They have talked to many people; You tried to find a solution. However, the result is not acceptable – at least from our point of view. But they have not had it easily, especially on the basis of the condition that, as has now been shown in the discussion, appears to be as follows: The Federal Chancellor may have said to you at some point: Make a heavy-worker's arrangement, but it can't cost anything! – Of course, this has resulted in the heavy birth that we now experience. That is, everything is really about money and the cost. Mr Tancsits said in committee: We want a practical solution! – Remember: a practical solution! What is practical for the ÖVP? What is practical for the colorful auxiliary party of the ÖVP? – A solution that puts as few heavy workers as possible in the situation of falling under this solution, and is therefore in line with the task of costing nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, aproposing costs: Mrs Bundesminister, if you already have too little money to get all the heavy workers into this scheme, then you could think about how to get to the money you need. For example, you could have thought about – or could have thought about it – why employers' debts in social insurance are increasing without a break. €926 million is currently the debt of employers to social insurance companies. In 2000, there were 782 million, i.e. a strong rise. What did you do? – You have observed this, but you have not done anything – watched, instead acted! Or: 626 million € had to be written off as infallible. I understand you'd rather look into your documents than take care of it. 626 million undisbursed social security contributions have been written down in recent years – in concrete terms from 2001 to 2005. This is actually a damage that belongs to repairs, and this could lead to the fact that in social security you have money at your disposal for what people expect! Money for a fair social policy is missing. I have shown you where to bring it back – also for the heavy workers. This is also about money made up of almost half of the employees' social security contributions. It is therefore about cases where the employer does not pass on money which he does not belong to and which he is obliged to pass on. – You could be philosophizing about what you call such people. Money that is not passed on by employers in good time or not at all could be very helpful to us in social policy. So I say briefly: The social scams on the side of the economy are becoming more and more, and the government is looking at or looking away – and that has been for years! Ladies and gentlemen, I think the situation is a zero sum game and, in fact, a zero number. Austria – and especially the people in Austria, especially those who work hard – deserved a better policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10440	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10461	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! If the SPÖ MEPs – starting from colleague Silhavy, Mr Pendl, and Mr Riepl – talk about what non-social policy the Austrian People's Party or government would pursue, and what money that is actually not available could be paid for here, I ask you very specifically: What kind of displacement tactics have you actually committed. [[Abg. Riepl: “Unsocial” is right!]] You're no longer on the ground with your feet! Where are the 1.3 billion for the Refco? Do you know how many trade unionists could be paid? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: Let's talk about Raiffeisen! Let's talk about Herberstein!]] Where are the 1.8 billion € of the BAWAG? Where are these money? – These have been put in the sand! You know, with this money we could voluntarily pay out the care money in Austria for four years! [[Abg. Gaál: This is a stupid thing!]] Three years of medication in Austria could be free of charge. I think you have to be careful! [[Abg. Gaál: But this is an illicit comparison!]] – Rain Please don't get up! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Countess Herberstein...!]] You may not have read the “NEWS” of tomorrow. I quote from it: “The incredible top faces of the ÖGB bosses. Railway trade union Haberzettl: 13 400 € gross monthly; GPA chief Katzian: 13,227,30 €; ÖGB-Boss Hundstorfer: 12 406,78 €’.– And that's how it goes. And Vergestnich had 15 227 € gross. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I could continue with the salaries of some trade union colleagues sitting here – including women. I don't do it anymore, because you - and hopefully also all of Austria - can read it tomorrow. [[Abg. Eder: Neugebauer! Stupid! Dr. Fassleven!]] I would really advise you: I'm not the one who throws the other, but I don't understand what you're doing anymore! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] I advise you to go back to the ground and actually look at the little man and the little woman – and not always talk about it! [[Complaints with the public and the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now on the matter: The colleague Silhavy also claimed that this Social Rights Amendment Act does not bring any positive results. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Open your salary!]] I'll explain this to you now: Especially at the widow's pension, I had the following case myself in my closest family: My sister was actually very disadvantaged by the current regulation. If we decide today on this social law amendment law with the votes of the ÖVP and the BZÖ, it has the possibility of another calculation. – Unfortunately, they don’t go with you – and that’s unsocial!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10617	Next item is the report by Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10638	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! That's unsocial, yes! This law is really unsocial, because in reality, as Mr Pendl has already suggested, it is a “repair law” which does not bring repairs and only increases damage. Mr Weinzinger pointed out – and this was very interesting, especially as Mr Tancsits called on us to stick to the truth and to the reality, my dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen: This law and this heavy-worker regulation are detrimental to female workers. You can turn it and turn it as you like. I'm not going to go into detail now because I only have three minutes. On the second point, ladies and gentlemen of the Government: Mrs Bundesminister, how many heavy workers are there estimated in Austria? Can you answer that? – I estimate that this is the 200 000 or 300 000: Building workers, steel workers, shift workers, officers, police officers, law enforcement officers, nurses and so on. And do you know, Mr Tancsits, how many of these people come into the heavy-worker scheme by 2010? – 300 to 500! So on the one hand, we have 200,000 to 300,000 heavy workers, and on the other hand, law 200 to 300, perhaps 500 people actually bring into this heavy-worker regulation. Mrs Bundesminister, this is really a shame! Well, you can calculate it. [[Federal Minister Haubner: How do you get it?]] [[Federal Minister Haubner: Did you make this up for yourself?]] No, I didn't figure it out myself, but let it be calculated. In addition, Mrs Federal Minister, I wrote you a letter three months ago, which you have not yet answered. That's what I'm saying. [[Abg. Eder: It doesn't touch them!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to have 45 years of insurance, you have to be 60 years old, you have done ten years of hard work in the last 20 years, then you can retire at 9 percent. If this is to be a Hurra law, then I already understand the nervousness with all the side noises and side problems, then I understand that Mrs Ridi Steibl talks about the scandals! In reality, the law is a scandal because it is a “repair law” that does not bring repair. Do you know what we want, Mrs. Federal Minister? . We want people not to retire from unemployment – of 400 000 unemployed people we are currently talking about in Austria – we want heavy-worker regulations to be a matter of course for men and women, ladies and gentlemen, and we want people to retire after 45 years of work. [[Abg. Friend: And who pays this?]] You're gonna figure it out when you're connected.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10720	Next item is the report by Mr Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10742	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Despite criticism, this law nevertheless represents an important social policy milestone for me, as it enables for the first time a heavy work pension. I should also like to say the following: If you work, you can make mistakes too, but if you don't do anything, you hurt others! If you think it's only 500 people, I'll tell you: At least 500 people are to their advantage now, and you must not forget that! [[Abg. Riepl: It's not a milestone, it's a millstone!]] Apart from that, it's much more. It's a lot more. I am allowed to respond briefly to the law and note that the heavy work pension allows for the special health burden on workers over the last 20 years before the retirement date, and under this new scheme, persons who have done at least ten years before the pension can complete the 60. Year of life with a reduction of 1.8 percent compared to otherwise 4.2 percent retire. I can also say that heavy workers have a much lower discount than non-slight workers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, when the other conditions are met, the age of seizure for heavy work pension is already 60. Life-years are given, and this brings many benefits: The determination of working hours and the age of seizure is facilitated, the calculation of deposits is simplified and access to the relevant services for heavy workers is improved. In order to make this possible, insured persons have the right to have the heavy working hours determined on request three years before reaching the earliest possible age of seizure. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should also like to point out that this heavy work pension is an important basis for this area. On this legislative basis, the heavy work pension will also develop in the next few years, or other important legal provisions for heavy workers can be implemented. This is why I consider this law as well as the heavy work regulation to be a milestone, because for the first time the special burden on social and care services in addition to those, as has already been noted, in agriculture and forestry – I am particularly entitled to stress this as the president of the agricultural and forestry workers – has now been defined as heavy work, especially in the case of many women. Since the heavy work regulation also counts as a heavy work the occupational care of sick or disabled people with special treatment or care needs, such as in hospice or palliative medicine, women working in hospitals and nursing homes will also benefit for the first time from a heavy work pension. This will also take another important step towards the recognition of the great, worthy work of women. High house! In conclusion, and in principle, I would like to stress that the heavy work regulation has succeeded in taking account of the different loads of an activity individually in different working conditions, with reference to calorie consumption. For the first time, a calculation model was created which qualified and quantified particularly difficult work and thus forms the basis for the recognition of the heavy work pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10784	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10819	Mr President. High house! In front of us are two legislative bodies. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Is that your farewell speech?]] One concerns the change in widow's pensions, and this widow's pension is actually an improvement. Some people who have so far been disadvantaged when calculating in cases where sickness or unemployment occurs now fall into the circle of beneficiaries. This is certainly an improvement. However, it must be kept in mind that the most serious cuts have been made in the area of widowed and widowed pensions, especially in the area of widowed and widowed pensions, because this has actually reduced widowed and widowed pensions from 60 percent or 40 percent to zero percent, depending on how much the partner's income was. On the second point, which is being discussed today, on the heavy work pension, has already been said very, very much. Some things are incomprehensible. For example, it is incomprehensible why people who meet the requirement for granting a heavy work pension according to the new definition are penalised with reductions of 1.8 percent per year. This is reluctant in the sense of the law when an improvement is planned. On the other hand, Mr Mitterlehner, for example, admitted to the fact that the circle of beneficiaries will be a much smaller group, and even he himself has assembled that an employee must be given the opportunity to understand whether he has been reported by the employer as a heavy worker or not. Mr Neugebauer, for example, said that there is no scientific definition of what heavy work is. So if there is no definition of what heavy work is, then the question of what is classified as such is in fact left to the arbitrariness. This regulation has many, many weaknesses. If one can believe the statements of the pension insurance institution, then only 1,500 persons will be able to benefit from this benefit at 82,000 newly recognised private pensions in 2005. This represents a share of about 1.8 percent. The fact that you have also excluded psychologically stressful professions – that is, people who work in the chord for example, do tape work, psychotherapists and so on – also speaks volumes. However, the real engraving is, as I said, that you have already lost the actual interventions in the pension system, with which you have dramatically deteriorated the livelihoods of many Austrians, with your reforms of 2001 or 2003 respectively. At that time, you have seriously deteriorated the living conditions of older people by increasing the calculation periods during the calculation of pensions from 15 years to 40 years – although you have said that the losses are covered by 10 per cent, in fact there are massive income losses – by abolishing the early pension due to long insurance periods, by abolishing the early pension due to long-term unemployment, by the reductions of 4.2 per cent per year when someone retires before the statutory retirement age, by reducing the increase amounts and so on. All this has been a schmair. Chancellor Schüssel said in 1997: There will no longer be such a pension reform with a conversion period until 2020! That's what I'm predicting now! - That was the untruth! In fact, you have worsened the living conditions of Austrians between 10 percent and 20 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10859	The next item is the speech by Mr Keussnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10880	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! If you follow this debate, you will inevitably conclude that the SPÖ is the most difficult thing to realize that this government has social competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. One: You're right!]] Wherever that is, you will be nervous, since you always think you have a monopoly on social competence. And unfortunately this is a mistake – better said, not a mistake, but thanks to God, it is an error. [[Abg. Reheis: But the people don't know anything about it!]] You must also note that this holistic, overall policy approach works, namely that this state, this community, is financially and structurally reorganised, that one is investing in the future and that one sets social priorities at the same time. [[Abg. Riepl: That's why we have more debt now than before! Let's figure this out.]] Well, that's what you're expecting. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Now to the heavy work pension: This government makes it because it is necessary. Each of us here in the House knows this and has many examples at hand why this is so. Because you can't be good at it, you overwhelm this matter. They are trying to bring this and that into place without showing the necessary realism. You also believe that this will bring you something politically. I believe that this is not the case because the citizen is looking through this strategy because people have a healthy sense of what is feasible and what is sustainable. This heavy-worker regulation, which we decide today, will develop. She's a courageous step in New Zealand. We will talk about her many times, but it's a beginning – and it's a good start!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10961	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e10982	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! I mean, meaning makes only that which improves the living conditions of the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! You could discuss meaning and nonsense for a long time now, but one thing is certain for us: This is absurd in that if it were absolutely not necessary, you would not have implemented the pension reform and harmonisation before. But this has already been told to you several times today. It should be repeated once more so that you can remember. Mrs Steibl has regretted that in your circle of friends, someone who would not have benefited or who would have gone badly because of the widow's and widow's pension schemes. I can only say to her: Well, who put it in, this zero-sixties rule? – That was you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, and not a government in front of it; of course, it has made it better. As far as women's pensions are concerned, please consider: an average of €618 per month; half a million women are at risk of poverty. That's where I ask you: What do you rely on in your women's claim for improvement? It is unmistakable, ladies and gentlemen, that one is producing here – not only one or one of you, but almost all – and spread that the situation of women would have improved. This is an insult to the Austrian women. – That’s stunning, and I’m unscrupulous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to widow's and widow's pensions, I would also like to say a few words to you, Mr Grillitsch: You certainly cannot imagine the lives of many women in Austria, I am convinced of that. You cannot imagine the circumstances under which women must live in Austria. Mr President, I should like to thank If widows or widowers have to arrange the funeral in case of death, so that if there are deaths in the family when they have to wait until they have settled everything in order to be able to apply for widow's or widow's pension, there will first be a lot of time, and Secondly, the regulation, as it is now present, is a deterioration – yes, a deterioration in it. Even the Constitutional Court has said in a 2003 realization that it is possible to take account of the social circumstances and the standard of living of people. If one now only takes the unemployment allowance or a social assistance allowance and uses it as a basis of calculation, then no standard of living can be maintained, then no good widow's or widow's pension can come out. Only because the Minister of Finance wanted to be four years old, did you agree. This period is not sufficient to assess whether the last income in the life of a person is really sufficient to ensure the standard of living. It's far from life's reality. But that's the whole policy you're making. That is why we will certainly not agree to these regulations. A misjudgment has been made on the other side, and I think that these misjudgments will ultimately bring you down.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11044	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11065	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, we often really discuss very objectively, but I cannot understand what you have said recently in many areas – I really have to say that – because it is precisely for women – I say it again because it has been said by several speakers of the opposition – that this government has done a lot. A billion for the independent pension scheme. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am glad, Mr President, that you at least recognize this. A billion € is investing this government in the direction of an independent pension scheme for women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Is that nothing to improve the situation of women? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Why did everything get worse?]] A billion? In the days of a SPÖ Federal Chancellor, a SPÖ Women's Minister, a SPÖ Minister of Social Affairs, they did not do all of this. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] 1 350 € on the pension account, improvement of the base. Yeah, is that nothing? Doubling of pension-based periods in child rearing times. Mrs. Colleague, is that nothing? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not enough!]] Seven years around your own... Too little, you say. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes!]] - Yes, but it's more than you've ever done before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say it again, Mrs Colleague: Criticize, shout, it's not. Take action! This government has committed itself to doing quite specific actions to improve the situation of women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The extension of the basis of assessment of widow's and widow's pensions is also such a correct decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's a very right decision. Whoever screams is usually wrong, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Time will give us the right, also in this area. Today, we also decide to make important improvements in the field of care professions, palliatives, in the field of hospice work, in order to upgrade the care profession. This is also very important to me as President of the Agency, and I mention it for that reason. Of course there's still a lot to do here. But these are also first correct steps in the right direction, and you really have to acknowledge that. You just don't want to recognize it, it's part of your opposition policy. They do not want to recognise it, but this government is the first to take correct and important steps in this area in terms of women's work and also in the social field. We will do this, and the people in Austria will recognise it as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11165	Mr Keck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11187	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The ÖAAB calls for a real regulation for occupations with heavy work. At 55 years of age – women – or 60 years of age – men should be able to retire without deductions, the colleague called for Fassleven. We agree with that, Mr Fassleven, because of course this is an excellent demand! Mr Sausgruber, Head of State of the ÖVP, said that the duration of the insurance period should be the standard not to demand any deductions; here the 45-year insurance period is offered. [[Abg. Silhavy: Who says that?]] – Mr Sausgruber, head of state. – We agree, of course, ladies and gentlemen. That's a very good demand. The head of the state of Lower Austria, Pröll, advocates that a pension should be granted in case of heavy work even before the 65th anniversary. In the case of 45 years of life, you should be entitled to a refund free of charge. – Of course! We are also in favour of this, and I think that this demand should really be implemented. Who else do we have? – The head of the state of Carinthia, Haider: If you have the insurance years together, you should be allowed to retire without any reductions. – Of course! That's what we're doing. And Haider calls a covert of the number of persons covered by the heavy-worker scheme five percent unconstitutional. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – Of course! That is what we are calling for, ladies and gentlemen. And then another statement by Mr Walch – he's sitting in there. Heavy workers: Walch very pleased with the decision. We from the BZÖ work in the sense of those concerned and realize our promises, Walch concludes in a broadcast. – I suppose he means the promises of the head of state of Carinthia, who is BZÖ Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We are also in favour of this, and I hope that today's vote will be taken on behalf of the people who have been calling for it in the media for months. But today's decision, my Ladies and gentlemen, today's decision does not include any innovations, as Mrs Minister has said, as has been said by Mr Tancsits and many others. All the measures laid down in this heavy-worker regulation are measures which have been excluded from the existing night shift heavy-work law. But they were changed in detail in such a way that deterioration for the hard-working people came out, in contrast to the night shift heavy-work law, for what does the night shift heavy-work law say to start? – I need 20 years of night hard work throughout my lifetime, so I can use it, or 15 years in the last 30 years I have worked. But what does the current regulation provide for? – We have the formula 60 – 40 – 20 – 10, that is, I have to be 60 years old, need 45 years of insurance, have to be of my 40. In the last 20 years, ten years of my life have worked hard work, that I can do it. And then there are reductions of 1.8 per cent per year when I use it. That is, when someone retires at 60 years of age, he has discounts of 9 per cent, and not, as Mr Walch said in an issue that meant that 3 per cent discounts are too high. – Mr Walch, 9 per cent of the fees are paid by the persons concerned each year before the 65th. Retire in retirement, or 1.8 percent off, which is a total of 9 percent. [[Abg. Walch: I didn't say anything about 3 percent!]] But let us go to the criteria, ladies and gentlemen. What criteria have you used for the heavy-worker regulation? – They have taken shift, change and night shifts. And as far as night duty is concerned, you have to have six hours from six to ten o'clock, six times a month, so that this month can be recognized as a hard work month at all. What about the shift plans? – I would like to explain to you once a shift plan – the colleague Mitterlehner confirmed in the last Committee meeting how it is in most companies –: The first week I have early shifts, the second week I have middle class, the third week I have night shifts – five night shifts – and the fourth week I have early shifts again. That means I only made five night shifts this month, so this month is a fallout. Next month: First week middle class, second week night shift, third week early shift, fourth week middle class. – Five more night shifts, so fall down. That means you can't use the night shifts. Next is the calorie control. Ladies and gentlemen! The calorie regulation is also in the NSCHG, but since 1981 no one has been classified as a heavy worker on the basis of this calorie regulation, and I also call you the reasons for this. How are working calories measured, ladies and gentlemen? One should have inquired only of occupational doctors, because I did too. – There are two measurement methods for the measurement of working calories. Measurement method 1: Cardiac frequency measurement. That is, the employee is wired for eight hours, with a meter of cable at the back, must do his work, and because of the existing heart rate measurements is converted using a formula, how many working calories are burned. - Impossible! If I have a meter of cable behind me, I won't be able to work – that's what everyone will confirm. The second method, i.e. Ladies and gentlemen, the temperature measurement, that is, the temperature difference between axillar and rectal measurement. I have a fever knife under the axles, have a fever knife in the “Hintern”, and because of the temperature difference the working calorie calculation is done on the basis of a formula. [[Abg. Neudeck: I’ve wondered why you’re so funny! Now I know!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, in practice this is impossible – this has also been confirmed by the colleague Mitterlehner in the last meeting of the Social Committee – and therefore this calorie regime is absolutely unacceptable. That means in the clear text: All in all, this heavy-worker regulation is a Husch-Pfusch law. Meet our demands! 45 years must be enough to be able to retire, ladies and gentlemen. That's fair, that's social, that's fair, and that's a regulation for the hard-working people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11267	The next item is the speech by Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11288	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the amendment tabled by Mr Neugebauer from the point of view of the Federal Government. We are in the process of adapting the Austrian federal army to the new security situation in Europe and worldwide. Above all, we are concerned with the Austrian Federal Army, which is on its way worldwide in the service of peace. It requires efficient, modern operational organisation and therefore also task-oriented structural changes. [[Abg. Schools: Take a break – and tell me you're against it!]] That was with a reason that we have been very committed to this when it came to creating the appropriate conditions for the Federal Army Reform Commission. All four parties are represented in the Bundesheer-Reform Commission and there was a unanimous determination. In its report and recommendations, it has provided a suitable basis. In the Commission, we have repeatedly called for the involvement of staff representatives and the trade union, because it concerns us – and there is also the colleague Neugebauer of our opinion and has often contributed to this – to creating a secure social plan. We should continue to do so. We have promised to accompany these negotiations with the Ministry critically, and today there is an amendment that does not mean that staff who will continue to carry out other activities should suffer significant losses over a longer period of six years, similar to the executive regime. This regulation is for us a first step in the right direction, a step that we are taking. We welcome these necessary reforms, which are socially acceptable, and will accept this amendment, but we, ladies and gentlemen, expect further arrangements for the staff of the Austrian Federal Army, especially for women and older generations who are no longer possible for military activity. That's where we need adequate jobs. One should not give the impression that the people are forgotten or are just being tolerated, but we need appropriate exit scenarios. We would be very willing to go along, but we are still missing such scenarios.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11323	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Civil Service Service Law, the Pension Act, the Federal Theatre Pension Act, the Federal Railway Pension Act and the Income Law (1394 of the Supplements). Mr Neugebauer, Mr Faul, Mr De Keersmaeker and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Neugebauer, Mr Faul, Mr De Keersmaeker and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to Article 5. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a sign of confirmation. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign in this regard. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft Social Security Amendment Act 2006 together with the title and receipt in 1360 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a positive signal. It is the majority. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:50:51]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1389, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Member States of the European Union) and the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union as well as the Protocol and Annexes, Act on the Conditions of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania and the Adjustments to the Treaties on which the European Union is based, together with Annexes and Final Act (1395, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11420	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11447	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, This item on the agenda sees Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union as 1st. ==References== 13 EU countries have already ratified this Treaty; Austria is the 14th. Land. We believe that this ratification represents an important step towards additional enlargement of the European Union. Bulgaria and Romania, whose accession treaty we ratify today, are two countries that undoubtedly belong to Europe – and we of the EIA have therefore always welcomed the fact that this EU enlargement is being extended. Both Bulgaria and Romania are important partner countries in Austria. Enlargement is basically one of the success stories of the European Union – and this, although it has previously been considered very skeptical by many, both in terms of security, economic development and labour market problems. Enlargement was and is a real and important step towards overcoming the division of our continent, to Europe's becoming an area of peace, security and stability. EU enlargement has also been particularly important for Austria to become a core country, a European heart country, from a peripheral position in Europe. In this context, attention should also be paid to the fact that the Austrians used their opportunities to a large extent. Eastern Europe has become the most important investment target for Austria. This is particularly true of Romania: Consider, for example, that the OMC has participated in the Romanian Petrom, or think of the First Bank and its participation in the largest bank there. At the end of 2006 Austria's direct investment in Romania will amount to €6 billion – and this represents a small economy like ours a fairly high amount. The interest of the Austrian economy in Bulgaria is also very great. However, there is not only an economic interest in this EU enlargement, but, of course, Europe's cultural area is at the forefront, with the Danube region in particular always having a special importance and importance for Austria. By the way, I would also like to say here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has always given particular importance to the Danube region and to the neighbourhood policy, often smiles on the part of the opposition parties. However, it has been shown that this has been a very important development and is still the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whether the date of accession is 1st. In January 2007, for Bulgaria and Romania, it will not necessarily depend on how the EU Progress Report, which is expected to take place in mid-May, will look forward. At any rate, EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn noted in his last reports that further reforms in both countries will be necessary before accession to the EU, especially in the field of justice and the fight against corruption; a constitutional reform is also needed in both countries. We hope that Romania and Bulgaria will take further steps in this direction: that they will make a constitutional reform and that they will continue to pick up on the issue of security, that they will also fully address the issue of anti-corruption in order to contribute together to a stable and secure peace project in Europe. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11505	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. It is still 5 minutes until the beginning of the emergency – and this is exactly your time to speak, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11526	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria is a history that started more than five years ago when the EU decided to consider this accession step. In these more than five years, over 140 chapters and areas have been negotiated, and of these 140 areas and chapters, according to the last monitoring report, more than 70 were fulfilled, i.e. 50 percent of these areas are considered to be fulfilled and there is a conformity of accession; 30 percent are still necessary reforms. In the end, however, the European Commission considers these open chapters to be feasible – and even with the 20 percent that remain, there is an assessment by the European Commission that additional reforms can lead to a positive outcome. That is, the EU accession of Bulgaria and Romania will take place. I assume that this is with 1. January 2007 will be the case. However, this is ultimately a decision of the EU Commission, a decision which it has reserved. As the current EU Presidency, Austria is, however, well pleased that the signing and ratification of these Treaties will be possible as quickly as possible. In any case, our group will vote in favour of this EU enlargement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all here about the economic successes of Austria in Romania Clear messages: Austria is by far the largest investor in Romania; there are more than 3,700 Austrian investments in Romania – with an investment volume of more than €7 billion. Only briefly the most important: the First Bank, which bought 62 percent of Romania's largest bank by €3.75 billion; and the ÖMV; which the majority of the Romanian Petrom, around €1.5 billion, bought. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the economy of our country has a very positive assessment of the economic and market location there, namely by prescribing the positive development of this area to business enterprises. That is why it is only right and cheap that a political decision should be taken and that is where we finally give our consent to this accession. Of course, there is still some need for re-examination – and this should not be forgotten – as certain chapters have reached, in particular, reform steps in the field of education and training. the areas of justice and home affairs necessary to ensure legal certainty, as well as the fight against organised crime and the fight against corruption. In these areas, these two candidate countries will certainly be able to resolve their own problems independently, so that they will be able to look very positively into the future and give their approval to these two accession agreements. I just want to remember that in the 19th century. In the 19th century, in Parliament meetings of this House, in the old Reichsratsssaal, by the Romanian deputies, who represented their country here in this House, of course, was spoken Romanian. This is why, as I believe, we also have a historical obligation to help these countries in their way to Europe. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11583	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:00]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor concerning post-chacher until the last second (4165/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11617	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4165/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11754	I give Mr. Dr. Cap as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 53 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e11786	Before I left, I welcomed Mr Morak, the Secretary of State. I'm always happy when he's there. However, the urgent matter is addressed to the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Neudeck: You will know the Rules of Procedure!]] I am very surprised that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic does not come personally, because he is finally the “father” of all this system, all these post shifts, because nothing can happen without his knowledge and without his consent. But, my God, Mr. State Secretary Morak has changed the role: not the Burgtheater anymore, but only the theatre of youth. My name is Morak – and I don't know anything! He's going to subtract this number again today. [[Abg. Steibl: Mr. Cap, is this the lion's leg for you?]] The text will have been written by the office Schüssel – and what remains to him is: Morak can shape the vowels a little bit further and a little shorter, he may be able to emphasize a little bit, maybe strengthen the timbre a little, but otherwise he has no design option, because this of course does the office bowl. Klubobmann Molterer sits in the Souffleur box, but not even that is the case now. So you are entirely alone, Mr State Secretary! This will be a difficult task to face. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's not that hard on the urgent one!]] But the true responsible person is, of course, the Federal Chancellor! You all know that at the Council of Ministers meetings there is always the item on the agenda “Personelles”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Didn't that happen to you?]] - You're still on it! – Enforcement of the Employment Act is a matter for the Federal Government. There is the so-called stencil regulation adopted in 1998, and even an anti-privilegation law. This bears the signature of Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. All of this, of course, has sunk into the deep reasons for its political oblivion, but that is true. [[Abg. Neudeck: When you listen to you, you think that carnival is not over yet!]] That is, nothing can be decided without unanimity. The Council of Ministers shall carry out any post-movement in offices or in disbursed undertakings to be controlled by the Court of Auditors. If it is now presented in such a way that it is simply the case of oranges, into which baskets just some oranges roll in, then that is not quite true, because the ÖVP, which is the carrier party in this government, with Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslan, has to bear joint responsibility for it! That's why I'm wondering: Where is he? Why doesn't he come here himself? Why is he too cowardly to take responsibility for this mailer? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Who said this? – I will, in any case, act with all my strength against posters, political packings and the economy of privileges! [[Abg. Steibl: Mr Cap! What about the Styria? What are the Socialists doing there?]] Who was that? The following statement must have been predictive: The representatives of this government don't think of saving themselves in any way, but they only have their vans, luxurious offices, minions and pusts in mind. Who was that? – Jörg Haider was that! Jörg Haider once said that! He wasn't in the government at the time, and now he'd have to say that again. But I have a quote from Jörg Haider here, and I would like to quote it in a positive way. He says something very interesting in it: It's Austria's been subservient. – This is the title of this issue. I quote Jörg Haider: You have to call the chancellor to order and tell him: Your cold, with which you see benefits for yourself – per you – and your party at the expense of the country, must have limits! In these 5 years, Austria has been subject to bowling. Against this black coup in the guide sets – thank you, I say – was the then SPÖ of just-consuming restraint. - Quote. So Jörg Haider went on 4th. ==References== I know why the Federal Chancellor is not here today. [[Abg. Steibl: Where are the reds all today?]] He would otherwise have to explain what he thinks about this criticism by the head of the Carinthian state that he had made himself subject to Austria and that Haider speaks of the “black coup” in the leadership sets. Do you want to make a contribution from the economy, from the banks, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Economics and Industry to this discussion? Are your desks going through the post crew lists? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Do you have any comments to make – or is that happening only in the Council of Ministers? How's that going? It's not up to you to make tickling calls here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in order to be able to occupy posts, you have to free up posts. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: BAWAG!]] Herbert Krejci, your Secretary General of the Industrial Union, once said something interesting in an APA interview; let me quote it. And: Your forgetfulness is boundless. You can't even remember that you have agreed with us in the government on the employment law and anti-privilege law. With us! You know that? You were with us once in a government! Don't look at me like a dream loser, it was really like that. Herbert Krejci said: The cleansing action that the black and blue government has launched since 2000 is without an example in Austrian political history. The SPÖ never trusted it. Even a Bruno Kreisky has always left some islands for political dissidents – do we want to ask the young Koren if he can make a contribution to this, or don't we want to? –, reminded Krejci of the deceased SPÖ Chancellor. Today, however, the last irreversible facts would be created, said Herbert Krejci. This testifies to a will of power that is unmatched by a brutality! Therefore, I deliberately took over this term of “cleannings” from the eastern block, and I also stand for it. Herbert Krejci says nothing but that at all corners and ends it was cleaned that the cunts had flown. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In the Styria!]] Even a black person who looked out for black and red has been cleaned – it costs what it wants! It was also expensive for the taxpayer to stand because the contracts to get out of the job cost millions of euros! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Franz Voves in Styria!]] You know very well that the taxpayer had to pay these post purchases for you! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Franz Voves!]] These were cleaning actions, as Herbert Krejci correctly noted! You cannot press against this responsibility because that is the truth! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Franz Voves!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Franz Voves!]] – I know you have a name memory, but that doesn’t say anything about the discussion yet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also pleased – I am now looking up for security’s sake – that President Prinzhorn is now holding the presidency. This is very pleasing, because I have to call him as a witness now. ==References== January 2003 criticised the party political occupations of the ÖVP. To clarify: There is someone who is not qualified, but who loves the ÖVP over everything and therefore gets a post – or is a friend of someone and therefore gets a post. That's what he'll have meant, I guess. President Prinzhorn then said: The ÖVP has been withdrawn according to the principle “Hold the thief!” and he criticizes the party book economy among teachers and so on. The ÖVP has done this in a masterful way, so Prinzhorn – and we've been forced to force our own people in post positions! At that time, when it was still called, “Friends of Prinzhorn” came in everywhere, which was true. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But Prinzhorn continued to say that in the wind shadow the ÖVP had overcolored, for example at the ORF. – There I became bright, and I had to read it again. Princehorn says this, not the “common reds”, but Princehorn says that! – At the expression of the face of Mr Lopatka, I see how satisfied and satisfied he is about to think about the next call in any ORF editor; just because Molterer is not there, he has to do it himself. It's hard, it's damn hard to always have to call yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Because you're at the speaker's desk, that's why the line is free!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I understand now that blood pressure is going up a bit. Now the Mück-TV chapter would follow as a quota horror. I wrote this down: Mück TV! Batteries Not around, but take a pencil and write: Mück TV as a quota horror! What is the effect of this? – There has been a hard fight for the Radio Law. One year was fought. At the time, the ÖVP was not sure whether to really get Gerhard Weis away. Therefore, one has made a law according to which the Foundation Council has a strong position if Gerhard Weis remains. But Gerhard Weis managed to get away – and Mrs. Monika Lindner became Director-General. Then came the golf-playing information director, who made sure Mück came. [[Call the ÖVP:Elsner!]] No, we're at Mück! ‘Mück-TV’ means: Equilibrium of information transmissions, influence on theme setting. [[Abg. Amon: What was Rudas?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] Between now and then lifting the handle and being present day and night there is a difference in quality. Ask the journalists who heroically fight for their free space against black interventions in the ORF! I'm telling you, there are these. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] Do you have a wave contact, or what's wrong with you? – I have just tried and just briefly to make you aware of what is actually happening! [[Call the ÖVP:Cap, you were also better!]] It is necessary to point out that this also has something to do with democracy. It also has something to do with democracy. I'm just saying, “ Caro Silvio! ” Now to Rome: A week before the election, Cusp said: Dear Silvio, all right! Silvio Berlusconi is the hort of democracy, we know. [[Abg. Grossruck: BAWAG!]] In fact, the majority of the printing media belong to him, two television channels belong to him, only more Berlusconi occurs until vomiting, and on the state station he has also had influence. Now he has lost the choice – and doesn't want to go. He says: I won the election! Everyone says to him: You lost! He says: No, I won it! [[Abg. Murauer: That was like yours! They didn't want to go either!]] This is Berlusconi’s “democratic” attitude. [[Abg. Murauer: You didn't believe you had to go!]] And on this cancer of democracy in the European Union, your Federal Chancellor said: Silvio, all right, maybe you'll pack it again, because I like this system Berlusconi so well! You can learn from that. But the population of Italy has said: Even if you have the media, even if you have now earned billions as Prime Minister, even if you are Prime Minister, we'll pick you up! And so it will be with bowls, I tell you! [[Cheerfulness as well as applause at the SPÖ.]] That's because he knows it, but he doesn't want to hear it, he hasn't come to the government bank today either. I am one of the few who are telling the truth. He doesn't hear the truth anymore, he hears only: whisper, whisper, bussi, bussi, can I bring you a sugar cotton for breakfast? – I tell him the truth! Wake up, wake up!, I tell him. And he's not coming because he's still asleep. That's why he can't come, that's logical, but he doesn't help anything. Herbert Scheibner is too good, he has not been in charge for too long. - I didn't trust my eyes. I have been used to the fact that the Republic has now taken possession of it. One has to distinguish: The ÖVP believes it can exercise power for even longer, at the BZÖ it is “ Save Who Can!” It's gate panic, panic on the Titanic – depending on what title you want. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The BZÖ – not the BZÖ! You need to speak German!]] - Did I confuse the sex with you? - I'm gonna be better. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Please!]] Impact on the national bank, influence on the association, influence on the ÖIAG, influence on the post office, influence on the ÖBB, which by the way is to be reformed to death, influence on the main association of social security funds – all this has been achieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Three times you were in the hardest clinic with the Constitutional Court, until you finally made the old style of the Berlusconi: 300,000 employers are as many as 3 million employees. Why don't we actually understand that? – That makes sense: 300,000 are 3 million. If I look at this longer, I think the balance is actually that way. You have reformed until you manage to have an ÖVP majority everywhere, although there is no ÖVP majority among employees. That's democracy? [[Abg. Grillish: And the jobs? How many jobs are €1.4 billion?]] The jobs that have come to it have been taxed, have cost a lot of money, have made it even more expensive. Thank you for the keyword! Grilling knows where to find expensive jobs. Grilling knows what they're costing. You are a constructive participant in an opposition speech; I am pleased. Therefore, one must be aware of what this Republic looks like and that it is also a kind of ‘berlusconisation’ in that Republic. I didn't trust my eyes when I opened the “curier”: Save yourself, who can! [[Abg. Hornek: That's where you put the wrong page!]] In this, the Gotha of the post office is almost described, everything that has been or has been sat here on Edlem before in this government. This is done in wave movements. There have always been political struggles and then there has been a division – and there have been swoops again “refugees” that one must have accommodated somewhere. This can be seen on the basis of the annual figures, who entered or entered, depending on that, that is very different. [[Abg. Kößl: Are you talking about the SPÖ – or who are you talking about?]] If I look at this, I have to say there's got to be real multitalents. Two, three examples of this. Not everyone will have read that, so I allow myself to quote. Gilbert Trattner: Ex-FP-Finanzreferent, Head of ÖBB-Infrastructure, Lord of ÖBB's Infrastructure Billions, Supervisory Board in Brenner-Eisenbahngesellschaft and in ÖBB-Immobiliengesellschaft. [[Abg. Flöttl!]] Where did he learn all that? As a FP financial officer, do you learn to deal with real estate and infrastructure? [[Abg. Scheibner: Good man! He's managing director in a financial company!]] The ASFINAG is a real collection store. Press spokesperson of ASFINAG became ex-Secretary of Dieter Böhmdorfer, Mathias Reichhold – with one or two hard “t”, I don’t remember now. He's supposed to be there, too. I can't remember, but now I think that the ASFINAG is a super profit-oriented company in which the billions are just flying around the area, and they say: Three, four, what's the point? We'll do that somehow. [[Call the ÖVP:BAWAG!]] There are major problems with the ASFINAG. - But you've taken a long time, you're not in shape today. Hardly there is Molterer, it doesn't fit with the calls anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Elsner!]] The ASFINAG must be a collection warehouse. What's going on there! [[Abg. Amon: Mr Cap, how was Praschak?]] Or: Arnold Schiefer, or do we want to talk about Herbert Haupt, who's going to be appointed a disabled lawyer? There was no hearing, although there were twelve candidates. All of this doesn't apply then. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] At the ÖIAG one also said: What do I care about the stencil regulation? Grasser immediately ordered a legal opinion, and the orders took place without compliance with all of these rules. We are not interested in the anti-privilege law. Many of the older people from this group have never claimed it. But you came here and said: Privilegance reduction! [[Abg. Rossmann: What do you have for a political board?]] I can bring you the quotes, but that would be my speaking time. It's just that full laugh! That's how someone who's already in the nest laughs. But you'll wake up in the autumn, I'll tell you! Those who are no longer interested in all of this are saying: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Right now we sleep in!]] A contractual culture without borders, without morals, develops, and the taxpayer has to pay it every time. That's the case of the upper damage, where I'd like your calls now. We must finally reorganise the damage of the government bowl, the black and blue-orange government! [[Abg. Amon: Praschak, BAWAG!]] That's crucial! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Arnold Schiescher, Burschenschafter, FPÖ-Gemeinderat, Secretary of State at the Blue-Orange Ministry of Infrastructure, Gorbach-Ministry, is the one who said: In my Lake Constance, I'm captain! He has been mentally elsewhere for a long time, but is still in the ministry – Peter Westenthaler has been knocking on all the time. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about you?]] Schiefer became head of the section and later head of the project for the Central Railway Station in Vienna. You have to imagine this: The central station is not any station where any chickens are loaded. [[Abg. Scheibner: So far you have muttered it!]] And it goes on: Supervisory Board ASFINAG, now he could even become Executive Board of ÖBB-Infrastructuralbau und -betrieb AG. Lauter genies are obviously running around there; everyone can do anything. [[Abg. Hornek: How's the old party secretaries with you?]] I know what it's like with you. If a chair is free somewhere – you sit there so quietly – and you don't watch out, patch, someone is sitting there from the ÖAAB. They're unbeatable from the pace anyway. But that's the basis. Why do you do it all? Why are there these posts? – This is done so that the BZÖ participates in order for this government to continue to exist so that one does not have to stand for the voters. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The BZÖ!]] This is the true background of this deal, which goes at the expense of taxpayers. That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The BZÖ! You're not the cap, you're the one!]] That's the true background. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Cap!]] To make this coalition stable, you do all that. It is only kept stable by this material background in the final effect. So I come to the Quintessence of the whole. I want to end again with a quote by Jörg Haider, who said something interesting. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You're at the end!]] He said: The bees are able to keep their homes carefully in their state. You throw the drones out every autumn. - Quote. [[Abg. Wheeler: ÖGB!]] That will happen to you this fall too.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12492	Mr Morak spoke in response to the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12523	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Josef Cap, the question of the activity of former politicians and close staff of politicians who have worked in cabinets for years, is not new and deserves a serious consideration and discussion. In fact, it is true that former employees of former German chancellors today can be found in considerable numbers in the management sets of companies that cannot agree on a certain level of state proximity. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] There are also former press spokespersons of German Chancellors, for example, functions in the Board of Trustees of the ORF. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Or you will find the former head of the cabinet of a German chancellor as Chairman of the University Council of the University of Vienna. [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] I also have to deal with former employees of political cabinets within the framework of the Bundestheater Holding and its subsidiaries. In order not to be misunderstood: I speak throughout the German Chancellors who were in office in the years before 2000. [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: There is no such thing!]] However, I would also like to mention the careers of former members of the government, such as those of former State Secretary Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer. He's bringing... – Wait, wait! I'm sorry, you're kidding me! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: A bad example!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12610	Mr State Secretary! If you can't be verbal – then who?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e12634	Wolfgang Ruttensdorfer today brings his experience gained in politics very successfully into the OMV. Or the career of former State Secretary Brigitte Ederer. She is very successful at Siemens today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and detonatative applause with the ÖVP.]] The former Federal Minister Rudolf Scholten, now active in the Control Bank, could also be mentioned in this context. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: That's what he was doing before!]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is a stupid example!]] I would like to expressly regret that in this urgent question by Dr Josef Capund comrades, we may be making assumptions, making claims that cannot be proved and that speculations are raised with a view to future careers. As far as some of these mentioned persons are concerned, such as former Interior Minister Ernst Strasser, who is now working in the private sector, I am looking for some fairness. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaál: State operation!]] I believe that a person who, after leaving politics in the private sector, deserves a certain degree of respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] In any event, it should not be accepted if, in part, unfounded assumptions are made regarding future activities which may have adverse effects on those concerned in connection with their current professional activity. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But that's what happened in the newspaper! No one invented that!]] This applies in particular to partially flat-rate dissatisfactions towards the university councils, which, moreover, are largely nominated by the universities themselves. I would like to mention successful women and men, such as: Dr. Hannes Androsch, Mag. Max Kothbauer, Mag. Inge Scholz-Strasser, Dr. Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell, Dr. Siegfried Sellitsch or Thomas Jozseffi to name just a few. [[Call the SPÖ: What are you doing?]] Although some of them may have already exercised political functions of different kinds or, in your words, Dr. Cap, to speak: Do you think if you call these personalities when you talk about nearly half of the university councils having already “been politically aware ”? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] I would like to expressly say that I consider the willingness to engage politically, at any level, to be an essential prerequisite for a democratically written society. For this reason, I am incomprehensible and incomprehensible about such statements, which are standard political commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me, in a specific case, to put aside the personal integrity of one of the personalities you have attacked in all forms. This concerns the long-standing head of state of Styria Waltraud Klasnic. On the basis of her long-standing political experience, she is, of course, in a special way empowered and qualified to take over the leadership of the future fund and the associated responsibility. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wattaul.]] I would like to comment on the individual questions as follows: Question 1: In principle, it should be noted that the information concerning the conclusion of contracts can only be provided under the German Employment Act or the German Federal Government's stencil regulation. In this context, the German Chancellor Mag, Mag, will answer the question 5042/J. Climate in the XX. The legislative period in which the following shall be carried out is referred to. I quote: ‘The Employment Act shall be addressed to the bodies of the undertakings responsible for the appointment and conclusion of the employment contract with the management bodies. In so far as the Federal Government is involved in undertakings, the Federal Minister responsible for the management of the German Federal Shareholders' Rights in accordance with the Federal Ministry's Law 1986 (...) has, within this function, compliance with the statutory provisions and therefore, in any case, the correct application of the Employment Act by the institutions of the undertakings concerned (e.g. ==References====External links== The contract templates were adopted by the Federal Government's regulation. For the purpose of providing information on questions of the Employment Act and the contract templates, all Federal Ministers are therefore appointed. – Since there has been no change in the legal situation since then, this answer is fully valid today. For the following institutions which fall within the competence of the Federal Chancellery, have been established since 4. Contracts concluded in accordance with the Employment Act for the Management of Management: Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds: two contracts, whereby the first managing director, on his own request, was early removed from the contract, so that the function of the managing director was to be designated in accordance with the employment law and to conclude a contract with the new managing director. RTR-GmbH: A contract was concluded with the managing director responsible for broadcasting matters in 2001 and will be concluded shortly by the end of the period. The tender procedure is currently under the Employment Act. Austria Film and Video GmbH: This company is led by the managing director of the Austrian Film Archive, for which the managing director will not receive any additional remuneration. Bundesanstalt “Statistics Austria’: According to the Federal Statistical Act 2000, the Bundesanstalt consists of a specialist and a commercial managing director. The term of office of both managing directors is 31. ==References====External links== The functions were publicly advertised in accordance with the Employment Act and by contract in accordance with the contract stencil regulation with 1. ==References== “Wiener Zeitung”-GmbH: ==References====External links== July 2003 the Managing Director of the “Wiener Zeitung”-GmbH following the call for proposals under the Employment Act for the term of office until 30. In June 2006, it was ordered by contract under the so-called contract stencil regulation. Bundessportanstaltungen GmbH: ==References== ==References====External links== January 1999 ordered managing directors to leave. Following the implementation of a tendering procedure under the Employment Act, the former managing director was appointed for a further five-year term of office by contract under the so-called contract template regulation. Reconciliation Fund: By the Reconciliation Fund Act, BGBl. I No. 74/2000, the reconciliation fund with the seat of Vienna ex leg was established. The Board of Directors of the Fund held its constituent meeting on 20 June. ==References====External links== The Treaty with the Secretary-General was concluded with the corresponding contract template regulation. The function has ceased due to the legal resolution of the fund. Bundestheater Holding GmbH: The five-year term of office of the managing director is at 31. ==References====External links== The managing director was appointed by contract after the contract stencil regulation for the next five years' term of office from 1. ==References== In addition, the contracts of the artistic managing directors of the stage companies Burgtheater and Staatsoper were renewed and a contract with the artistic managing director of the Volksoper was concluded in 2002 respectively. It is noted that in the Federal Chancellor's Office, no staff members covered by the Employment Act were called out of office in advance. On question 2: In the Federal Chancellor's Office, since no contracts have been early dissolved, no answer can be given here. Question 3: In accordance with § 2 ÖIAG-Law 2000, the ownership rights of the federal government in the Annual General Meeting are exercised by the Federal Minister for Finance. – The answer to this question therefore does not fall within the competence of the Federal Chancellery. Question 4: In accordance with § 2 ÖIAG-Law 2000, the ownership rights of the federal government in the Annual General Meeting are exercised by the Federal Minister for Finance. – The answer to this question therefore does not fall within the competence of the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Bures: He's not responsible for anything!]] Question 5: According to the ASFINAG Act, ASFINAG has a duty to provide information, not to the Federal Chancellor, but to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. [[Abg. Bures: Therefore no jurisdiction!]] – The Federal Chancellery cannot therefore provide any information in the absence of competence. [[Abg. Bures: He doesn't know anything!]] Question 6 [[Abg. Bures: He doesn't know either!]] As I have already pointed out, the former head of the Styria, Waltraud Klasnic, brings the necessary conditions for the responsible activity of the Board of Trustees of the Future Fund, based on her long-standing political experience as a state councillor and head of state of a large Austrian state. In addition, I would like to say that it was not appointed by the Federal Chancellor for this function, but was elected from among the middle of the board members in accordance with § 7(1) point 1 of the Zukunftsfondsgesetz. [[Abg. Bures: Not responsible!]] Question 7: According to § 3 Bundesbahngesetz, the management of the shares rights on behalf of the federal government is the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. – The Federal Chancellery is therefore unable to give an opinion on this matter because of lack of competence. By the way, I would also like to refer to my introductory remark here. [[Abg. Bures: He doesn't know either! What do you know?]] Question 8: The following new orders are necessary for the Federal Chancellery until the National Council election: On the basis of the time-limit of the managing directors of the RTR-GmbH responsible for broadcasting matters. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What is he in the government for if he is not responsible for anything?]] In addition, the appointment of the artistic director of Burgtheater GmbH is for the occupation of the five-year term of office from 1. September 2009 and the artistic director of the Volksoper Vienna, based on the agreement of the contractual relationship with the current managing director. [[Abg. Eder: You don't know anything either?]] On the question 9: This question falls within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. Apart from this, I can tell you that the position of the managing director or managing director of Österreich GmbH, as provided for in the government template, will be occupied in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Act and will therefore take place a correspondingly transparent ordering process. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you even know?]] [[Abg. Eder: Maybe the Dolinschek knows something!]] Question 10: According to § 3 Bundesbahngesetz, the administration of the shares rights on behalf of the federal government is the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. – The Federal Chancellery is therefore unable to give an opinion on this subject because of lack of competence. [[Abg. Bures: No jurisdiction!]] By the way, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13028	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. As the first speaker for the debate, Mr Dr Kräber spoke. Your speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13058	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Morak, you have announced a “serious consultation” with this urgent one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Therefore, Mr State Secretary: How can you claim respect for ex-internal minister Strasser, who has run away during the ADONIS scandal – and who has performed hundreds of party coloring actions?- Oh, my God! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] That's pretty incredible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. State Secretary Morak, the only thing you need from your reading is the praise for top Social Democratic representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: And the note... to the Salzamt!]] I say to you now: It is only by no means possible to establish a connection with the “Gorbachs”, “Reichholds” and “Forstingers” of this world, that is self-evident, Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Kainz: Where is the castle involved everywhere?]] Mr. State Secretary Morak, you have not given any answers at all – and this is clearly illegal – and I point out that – and this means, of course, that you want to continue the black and orange post chess. You can do that best from the ÖVP, and I would therefore advise you, Secretary of State Morak: In the three most urgent cases, please do post chess! I'm looking for you: At last check the position of Mr. Seipel at the Art History Museum! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reasons for this necessary post chess can be found in the Court's report on Art History Museum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] – It doesn’t matter, Mr Neudeck, who comes after that, because there really isn’t anyone in the world who would come up with the idea of presenting the “Saliera” in front of the world press, together with Minister Gehrer, in a paper, like a liver cheese and strolling around with the trident! [[Abg. Neudeck: I didn't say anything!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Wrong speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly remember all that it was Director Seipel who bought this car and sold it at the same time. Mr Seipel obviously does not know many differences between “your” and “my” – and therefore, Secretary of State Morak, it is necessary to check these posts. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're confusing!]] In this context, for example, I also mention tomb entries from Egypt: If Seizel likes a very good one, he'll take her home. Or I would remind you of how Mr Seipel played “James Bond” in Venice, so to speak, which cost taxpayers €7 000 a day. – Therefore: Check this post from the coalition parties too! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Chech: Schachner-Blazizek!]] But check also the posts of Mr. Kandlhofer! There is also a really well-founded statement in a Court of Auditors report on the e-card project. [[Abg. Kainz: Thematic miss what you're talking about!]] – I am sure you remember, Mr Commissioner. This is post-chacher, because Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel, unconstitutional, has saved Mr. Kandlhofer into the main association. By the way, nothing has been heard from the “Houter of the Constitutional Arch”. And, of course, Mr. Kandlhofer thought: Your pot, if I've already been ordered unconstitutional, I don't need to comply with laws or regulations! [[Abg. Steibl: What does Voves do in the Styria without a tender?]] Mr Kandlhofer said at that time that he would not comply with the Maria-Theresian law of law. – So the “foundation” looks like a breach of law. In the so-called small investigation committee – which was particularly interesting – Mr. Kandlhofer said to award the e-card contract that it was “the chief thing”. In other words, ‘chapter’ in relation to the no-dates that take place in ÖVP rooms, where illegal price agreements are made, and so on. [[Abg. Steibl: That’s what Voves in Styria says: “chef”!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You're just... because Voves didn't chess you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, is there an even clearer confession to illegal price agreement than that called ‘chef’?- Oh, my God! Can an objective awarding process be cited as “chaste ”?- Oh, my God! To the authors of this report in connection with the so-called small committee of inquiry: It is already a powerful piece to call this matter a “scandization attempt of the SPÖ”! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, chess Please also see Mrs Klasnic's position in the future fund! In this case, I do not have a Court of Auditors report yet, but there will be a report from the research committee of the Steiermärkische Landtage, which will show that in the summer of 2004, Mrs Klasnic released Herberstein, contrary to the recommendations of the country's financial department, funding for countess Herberstein. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Now Waltraud Klasnic is to contribute €20 million in the future fund to the process of the past – and at the same time is the past in the Causa Herberstein being developed in a research committee in Styria?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... because Mr. Voves didn't chess you!]] [[Abg. Steibl: What is now?]] Mrs Steibl, you'll still wonder what's going to happen! For example, I am thinking only of the private house renovations of the German Chancellor's "Wahlkampf-Singer"! Again: Check for Seizel, Kandlhofer and Klasnic too! [[Abg. Kößl: He who sits in the glass house should not throw stones!]] Another type of mail chesser is still to be pointed out, namely through bowls and sharks, namely in the transport resort. I remember: Schmid, Forstinger, Reichhold, Gorbach – all failed! A disaster in the transport sector, both with regard to railways, public transport and road, ASFINAG: Post chess, debt, mismanagement. But it seems that this is not a problem for the government! What are we told by the ÖBB? – An enterprise for which the state is liable cannot go on anyway. – So it clearly looks like this: The money for the post-checker pays the taxpayers, but we don't need control! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will not please the people of Austria, be assured! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Now another Ceterum Censeo, if you are already there, Mr State Secretary: What is it like with the 5 736,88 € plus 4 percent interest – as I once assume –? You always laugh so mischievous when the talk is that you should finally take over the costs for your private birthday party! I'd really ask you: You did not answer the urgent question. At least today, at least answer the question whether you are willing to repay the costs of your birthday party, which otherwise the taxpayer will have to pay! We're waiting.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13326	Mr Herzegovina, you have accused the Secretary of State of answering the urgent questions not in accordance with the rules of business. I don't see that at all! But Mr Klubobmann can speak about this at the next presidency. I'd be very interested in the board. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13350	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Listening to my colleague's herbs can be six minutes long. And if you listen to my colleague Cap... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] It's amazing: I hear and read in the newspapers that you're a good marathon runner. But you also need to stretch properly and perform gymnastics every day! After all, when you talked about refurbishment and finance here, without mentioning the ÖGB, the BAWAG and so on, you already had to make proper flaws. Everyone else should have left the speaker's desk with a tape disc incident, I tell you very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's what we're already at the point: What you stage in connection with post chess today is not even a tired distraction maneuver from the Causa fine. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Go!]] Mr. Cap, just yesterday, 24 hours ago, you offered a job here in the National Council to colleague Hundstorfer, because it seems that it is simply too little if you are chairman of the union of parish officials, because it is too little if you sit in the Vienna municipal council at the same time, because it is too little that you are also managing ÖGB. This is not much to do for the SPÖ now, because it is supposed to have nothing to do with it. That means: There's still room for an official! – In view of this, I must say: It is already courageous that you are putting on the topic of postage chess today, Mr Cap! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ask new builder what this is!]] But now I want to return to the Causa fine of the last days and weeks. It is clear that SPÖ cannot operate. There are enough mega-examples for this, I am thinking of the “consumer”, of the nationalists, but also of the banking sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I really have to say very clearly: It is a coincidence if nothing happens to banks in your sphere of influence! The rule is that something happens when I think of all the bank debates in recent years here. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Are you talking about Raiffeisen?]] Furthermore, it is increasingly confirmed that the ÖGB and the BAWAG are obviously controlled from the Löwelstraße. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Of course!]] If Gusi says, If we sell, the ÖGB will sell. When Mr Gusenbauer says: Dog-tores!, then dog-tores come in. When Mr Gusenbauer says: Katzian, then Katzian sits inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] It is already very interesting how this interplay is running and being presented. [[The speaker places a panel with a graphic and the title “The felt of the caster-SPÖ” on the speaker’s desk.]] Here red cast builder branch is built, and this is of course the big problem at the moment with regard to ÖGB and BAWAG. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does this have to do with federal execution?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] After the first comments, Mr President, you can say: You do not dissolve the felt that has led to this story, but you strengthen it! My concern is that the ÖGB and the BAWAG do not come out of this corner because they are in your influence, ladies and gentlemen. You have proved in the past that you have no idea of the economy. There has always been crisis situations everywhere where the socialists have reacted too long. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: They are five kilometers from the theme!]] I'll be right back to OIAG. The ÖIAG was one of the cases we took over from the SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk about the matter!]] The ÖIAG is such a case, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You give a speech three weeks ago or for the election campaign! Don't talk around! Let us talk about something that Parliament is concerned about.]] Let us not talk about it, but let us look at the results, dear Mr Kogler! The ÖIAG is debt-free today. ÖIAG has privatized companies very reasonably and properly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] – Mr Colleague! You are also such an old socialist ideologist, far from economic reality! You're a theorist, but you're not a practitioner. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your expertise has also led, among other things, to the fact that the Obersteiermark has come into this situation in which it is located. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Styrian ÖVP has mud to the ears!]] Let's look at the successful privatizations! Let's see how voestalpine stands today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] – Dear Karl Dobnigg, you are one of the few who have not yet made this office unbundling! The only luck is that at least you've been part-carnated. This will not have been a damage to the voestalpine Donawitz! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't get upset like that! voestalpine successfully completed the 2005/2006 financial year. Just that we know what it's all about: We have in the top Irish companies... – Karl Dobnigg! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] I don't know if you were there during the negotiations. There is 2 400 € premium for each employee. [[Abg. Dobnigg: The employees work there, too, and not you or the ÖVP!]] We always had confidence in the management and the employees, and overall we can see: If they are not under political influence, they make their business quite fantastic. The voestalpine is a parade example of successful privatisation. [[Abg. Moser: Moser: She was tossed!]] It is a prime example of a successful unbundling of politics. We still have a few margin sizes, but that's not really crucial anymore. The voestalpine is a very positive example of this unbundling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] Dear Karl Dobnigg! I'd be glad if you could see it like that. I don't think today in Donawitz anyone wants the nationalists anymore. Or? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you want to go back to politics? No, no, no, Not me. And that probably doesn't want an employee either. So don't worry about it, but let's make sure we shape the future well! To promote change: We've had a red captain in Styria for six months, and I'm telling you: Disillusionment has moved into the country, not renewal! There was a lot of mail chess. We have a - undoubtedly unsuccessful - hospital council who left a large construction site. We are now investigating in a committee of inquiry, and this goes down to the suspicion of corruption. Mr Voves has made him the President of the State Schools Council, and because that was too little, he has also received a Federal Council mandate. That means: When he becomes president, he rides around with two drivers and two cars. That's mail chess! Let us look at another gentleman, the former head of state, Schachner-Blazizek: He is Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Steiermärkische Bank and Sparkassen AG, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Leykam Medien AG, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of EStAG, Executive Board of Steiermärkische Verwaltung and, and, This is the networker, ladies and gentlemen. Let us also look at the situation at the ARBÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleague Herbs, I hear that SPÖ's national party finance officer Heinz Hofer, no insignificant networker in Styria, should become new ARBÖ president. I hope you voted against it on the basis of the post chess officer in the SPÖ National Party Board and have acted as actively as here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The ARBÖ will be able to choose who it wants! Why is the mailer?]] – Mr Parnigoni, that you report to the ARBÖ, I find it particularly amazing and courageous. There a President deserves more than the Federal President! You should be ashamed and not talk too loud! In this sense, it is also clear after this debate: The SPÖ can't operate! It would be a damage if the SPÖ were to be more responsible in this country. That would be a damage! The country is well removed at Wolfgang Schüssel and at this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13628	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13649	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! You should actually be very happy sitting here and looking forward to the fact that you have brought in a good emergency and that your club chairman is having a great speech here. – Your excitement and nervousness, however, shows something else: You see that you've already landed a pipe-creper again, as well as with many urgent requests. [[Abg. Riepl: How much did Mr. Gaugg get?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've always been looking forward to the urgents that come from you, because they're always interesting, sometimes good for humor, often but also demanding courage. This is also evidence of the courage of your group and your club chairman. If the SPÖ, which has become the party's proporz and post-chacher, is concerned here about the award of posts, then this is really evidence of a large portion of courage. I would like to acknowledge this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is only interesting that Mr Cap, as proof of his thesis, is now occupied and decided in the government, then immediately draws on the Council of Ministers, the agenda and the item “Personelles”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] This shows that the last six years have passed without any trace by our colleague Cap! – For us, however, this is always an interesting insight into the past. That's like looking in the distance with a telescope. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They should look in the Caribbean with the telescope!]] Yes, exactly! I'll help you with the story. This is like looking in distant galaxies and then seeing something that you think is happening now, but in reality, the event is already over for light years through the great distance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] That is how it should be. Mr Cap! It was perhaps still in your time of government participation that the Council of Ministers, according to Proporz, had all the functions in the state and in the close-to-state establishments. But now it's different! On ‘Personelles’ in the Council of Ministers: Do you know what's going to be decided? It is not about the close-to-state establishments, nor about the establishments controlled by the Court of Auditors, but it is only there that the orders and honor marks – including your orders and honors – are decided. Furthermore, the members of the Patent Office – I do not know if this is really interesting in proportion – will be appointed by the Consuls and the Judges of the Constitutional and Administrative Courts, ladies and gentlemen. So you're bringing some evidence from the past here. This one is historically very interesting for us, but has with reality today – thank God! - Nothing to do. And that's how many things happen to your urgent ones. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's true: Mr Cap, you once said at a panel discussion in one of your institutions, when I accused you of doing bad government policy, but your opposition policy is even worse, that you do not want opposition policy at all because you want to rule again. I understand that too! You always show that you haven't learned the opposition yet. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You will still have time to learn!]] But it's also clear to us why you want to go back: Because you want to come back exactly to the system that you are setting up here and that you are criticizing now, namely that you are the state, the post office and the housing award! All this, the party, you want to be! You're proud of that. And where you can still do it, like for example in Vienna... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - Wait! The party forgives the municipal apartments. The party grants the positions in the municipal administration. That is why it is not a coincidence that, as I believe, 90 percent of the personnel representation elections come from your ranks. And you're still proud of that! [[Abg. Zweytick: Friendship!]] But that's over, ladies and gentlemen! That's over! The close-to-state enterprises are all subdivided and, for the most part, privatized, and there is no longer that. There, the positions are not occupied by the government or by parties but by the Supervisory Boards and assessed by independent Commissions. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! But that's something else! Where you can still do it, you can see it, e.g. at ÖGB – BAWAG – SPÖ: As a saviour, Mr Hundstorfer is then set up for the independent representation of workers, Hundstorfer, the MP of SPÖ, and for this purpose he is the chairman of the municipal staff. And the people who know him say: First and foremost, it is there for the SPÖ and then only for the workers' interests. Mr Foglar, who, at the time when these speculations began, was the Supervisory Board at BAWAG and also the Chairman of the Strike Fund – if he still exists – will now become Chief Financial Officer at the ÖGB. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: And what is Mr Amon? Secretary-General of the Economic Union!]] Mr Collegue, as you also criticise the Gagen: Mr. Elsner has received a reward of €300 000, a job with the lotteries for putting the bank almost in the sand. These are your reactions to scandals! That's your position! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There's a lot to mention here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter! What about the ARBÖ? They criticise the fact that a board of the ASFINAG, which is now initiating great projects and which has never invested so much in infrastructure, deserves €200 000. This is still a corner house less than the income of the ARBÖ President! But you don't want to know anything about it anymore. The entire SPÖ functionaries now flee the ARBÖ bodies so that they have nothing more to do with it. The Styria has already been addressed. It is really interesting to see at which record pace you are recolored there, from the State School Councils to the Foundation Councils to the close-to-national societies! In fact, what you always put under us is only what you practice where you can! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Let's take a look at the urgent ones! Mr President. Something can't vote with the lamp! Maybe the wishful thinking is...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13790	That's right! The clock was adjusted to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13817	You write in your urgent, what you can't do: One must not have orders from close-to-state companies, even as a lawyer. – What about your lawyers, Austrian Airlines, airport, how does that look? Your lawyers from the SPÖ should express their views here! Should they no longer receive orders from these areas? That's weird. You mentioned the name Ederer and said that this is quite different. It's nothing else! She's doing great work at Siemens. Thank God! Let us be proud, Mr Cap, that politicians in the economy are doing good work! None of us would think that there is an incompatibility if Siemens received much of the major orders from the state sector or from the community. That's crazy! [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] The same is true in other areas. What about Mr. Vranitzky? He has an advisory agreement with the WestLB. – Yes, of course, the contract has now expired after ten years. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Gehabt!]] But did this have something to do with the fact that, when he was still Federal Chancellor, Bank Austria sold to WestLB? And, and, and so. There are many examples. You seem to be projecting all that you're bringing here, from your own area! Ladies and gentlemen, it is criticized which salaries are paid at the ÖIAG. – Thank God we used great managers there! You might still have Mr Streicher and others there. If there is nothing to do with it, never were ministers of the SPÖ! However, the management that was used there has managed to ensure that ÖIAG is debt-free through privatisations and still has a higher market value than before privatisation. This is modern personnel policy that really works forward-looking. And you could bring a lot of similar examples. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But the starting point for the reforms and also for that of the Court of Auditors in 1997 was suicide, ladies and gentlemen, a suicide that has been caused in your area because there... – Na ist das “deep”, Mr. Cot? [[Abg. Gradwell: Do you really need to become so deep?]] Can you not remember what we have discussed here, where you yourself have worked out a five-point programme, so that such a case of Praschak is no longer possible in the future, so that such a pressure as on Praschak can no longer be exerted? This has been listed here in 1999. And then what happened? One post post after another, according to the party schedule. We have not been concerned – as you now seem to be – to say that it would be incompatible for someone to have any economic position or membership after exercising a political function. That's how you present this. We have just said that it is not possible for us to have politicians of red and black exclusively there and that it is a reason for exclusion if one does not belong to these two parties. You, ladies and gentlemen, have expressed it yourself. Your colleague, Mr Gusenbauer, expressed this at a National Council meeting when he said it would be on the agenda for politicians to go into the economy after their activities, and we should not be so defensive and have such a lack of self-confidence that we do not say that we are doing good work here. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] I'm surprised you criticize this, but I'm telling you: We know that we have objectively done so, and we will continue to work on it! The glass house in which you sit is so large that you can throw your stones, but we want to prevent Austria from returning to the system you are criticizing here, but really want to reintroduce again: to a large-scale proportion, where exclusively according to the party book the posts are occupied in your mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13890	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. 2 minutes; You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Colleague: Facts against facts, no political assessments!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13917	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner said, among many others, that Bank Austria had been sold to WestLB. To this form of objectivity I can actually correct: It is the HVB, a completely different bank, Mr. Colleague. Like so many things in life: everything is wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13944	Mr Mag. Moser has also referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e13968	Mr President. Mr Scheibner – also his predecessor Missethon – claimed that ÖIAG was free of debt. It is true that in its 2005 balance sheet, ÖIAG has liabilities of € 457 million.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14003	Mr Oellinger has now come to the speaker's desk with a welcome speech time of 8 minutes. - Please. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I call Mr Oellinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Missethon, do you know what the unbearable is? – That you, for example, as a representative of the ÖVP – I could replace it with others – which in the Styria in the Causa EStAG is not even out of the mud until the nostril is out of the mud, and say here: Ah, there's someone else in the mud! The SPÖ is also in the mud! We're glad! – This is the way in which you make this debate about party book economy unbearable to the pro-pore economy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not about the fact that, once, Mr State Secretary, there was also a party book economy – of course, and we have always criticized it – but: The extent of post-chakers, the privilege economy, the party book economy, the inability of political artists who have been transferred to these posts has reached unbearable proportions and has never been as bad as now – not even at the time of the propore! That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. Austrian Research Center, Austro Control, AUA, ASFINAG, Austria Center Vienna, Austria Economics Service, Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, Bundesheer, Handicraftsanwaltschaft, Bundestheater-Holding, BUWOG, Brenner Eisenbahngesellschaft, Brenner Base Tunnel AG, Bundes Accounting Agency, Bundesbewerbungsagentur – now I am not even finished with the letter B and there! You've tried to paint and dye everything in the last five or six years! That's how it looks in this Republic. There is almost nothing more about institutions that are close to the state, which are not populated by your artists – and that is the problem! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something about the "normality" of this recoloration: Criticism of the ÖVP as a partner at the federal level is exercised by the Carinthian FPÖ chief Martin Strutz in connection with the occupation of top positions. He speaks of “Postenschachcher. ” Whether ÖBB, ORF, ÖIAG, Hauptverband, Nationalbank, even in the health field, one has the impression that these positions are mainly occupied by representatives of the larger government party, said Strutz on Monday. As the FPÖ or the BZÖ are excited that the ÖVP still has more posts and occupations, and of course, the ÖVP is a bit more important: It does not stir up as loud and clear as it does, but says relatively little about it, silent as usual. But there are others, ladies and gentlemen, like those of the government, who are certainly not far off – and that's why he was brought to the Supervisory Board – Niki Lauda, who said the following – I quote – to the occupying agency, to the party-political occupying agency at the ÖBB: ‘Political intervention at ÖBB’ Around the occupation of some top positions at the ÖBB, short-term supervisory board Niki Lauda now spoke. Lauda stated on Monday in the ORF radio that there were political interventions by ÖVP and FPÖ during the occupation. Thus, Lauda, Minister of Transport Hubert Gorbach... has made it clear to him – now a beautiful sentence – “who pays, creates on”. As a result, he submitted his resignation." Lauda: ‘It was ‘surprising’ about the functioning of the ÖBB. The Supervisory Board even sent a letter to the political responsible with the request to let the Executive Board ‘work in peace’. He, Lauda, “has underestimated political influence. When he noticed that ‘the gap between political interest and economic needs’ was increasing, he submitted his resignation’. Yeah, what do you say? - Nothing! You forget! Well, let's get rid of the Lauda! And then someone comes smoothly from the government parties – in this case Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner – and says: We're party-politically free! The Supervisory Boards shall determine in the institutions who has what to say. I have now read to you what Mr Lauda has said. He's been ordered by you as a Supervisory Board because you knew he's close to the government parties! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a contradiction!]] He was honest enough to say: No, not with me! They can't play that! I could still list you bodies and supervisory councils who have turned their backs on this post-ordering practice of the government parties and have said: We're not going to do that anymore! – These are the realities of recent years! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something to you, ladies and gentlemen, about this. [[Abg. Murauer: Do not flatten, count!]] Let's not talk about normality anymore, but about the special: Austria Economic Service. – What do you think? Two managing directors have been ordered and expelled. They have been ordered by you party-politically – and thrown out because they were unable. The Republic is paying the costs: on the one hand, the consulting costs for the recruitment of these managing directors – they were huge, we have already discussed – and, of course, the costs so that the managing directors, when they are thrown out, do not shut up, so that they can quickly forget about them again and so that they can act as if there were normality in this Republic. - That's how it looks! Austria Economic Service: Remember that well! [[Abg. May. Kogler: silent money from the taxpayer!]] Dietary Agency – next example. Mr Kogler can tell you from his practice as Chairman of the Court of Auditors and also from his work other examples! [[Abg. Murauer: I have experienced the practice!]] Austrian Research Center. What debate do we have here for years? – The fact that this company is almost on the verge of economic activity is that everywhere abroad it is written and ridiculed by Austrian Research Centers, because this is in the hands of citizens, by striking burgers! And your consequence from this circumstance is that a striking citizen of the Olympia will be replaced by another beating citizen by the Olympia as managing director. – Yes, what do you think, ladies and gentlemen, how far can you drive it?- Oh, my God! Do you really think this is for the future, for a new way of governing with which you started a few years ago? Is this the new way of governing that one replaces a citizen from the Olympia with another citizen, because the one thing is no longer going on, because the people, no matter if Krünes or Graf, have turned out to be incapable? Is that the new government? What do I hear from the FPÖ or the BZÖ? – Nothing I hear, but it is reality! That's how it looks, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's sad enough! Or we're talking about an example from the recent weeks: the Family & Profession Management GesmbH. There is Mr Dolinschek, the Secretary of State, who said: We need this society very urgently! And we said: What do you want? Posts! – No, no, it’s not about posts at all, it’s absolutely necessary! We can no longer work if there is no such society. Then you have founded this society – and it is still not working at the end of March! But you have now created the supply posts for BZÖ/FPÖ municipalities. These are the realities! And if I have said FPÖ/BZÖ here, this does not mean that the ÖVP would have been inactive in this matter. There are also enough examples from the past few years that you can master this business of the evil post chesser very well and very well. We're not about anyone getting a post from a party or not getting it, but he or she should be capable, he or she should be qualified, and there should be a public and a control for it. [[Abg. Neudeck: But you don't decide that!]] But you're not even willing to let these powers be controlled. And that's the difference to what we've experienced in this house before.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14174	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14196	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have today received an Easter reply in the reply of Mr Morak State Secretary. He could always only formulate that his name is rabbit and that he can't say anything about it and is not responsible. Mr. State Secretary Morak, I hope you will soon give us an answer as to what your birthday party is doing in the Art History Museum. The taxpayers are still waiting for the money of almost €6,000! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Scheibner, you have spoken a very open speech here when you said that the Council of Ministers no longer has any staff decisions but only talks about orders, orders and occupations on this point. – Now I ask you: Is that what Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel does alone? Are you standing right there? In the “Kurier” there are listings on the supply items and the procurement of the posts. In my opinion, this is the main job of government representatives: They have to save their own armchairs because they know that in the autumn they are placed in front of the door, and they also have to save a lot of armchairs in their environment. [[Abg. Wattaul: But you do not believe that!]] The carousel and spirals of supply are turning faster and faster. It is also no wonder that the ÖVP is considering extending the legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen, that means your list has to be very long. – Or are the services of the BZÖ honoured by the ÖVP? That's why you keep quiet and that's why your people are being cared for. Many ex-FPÖ or BZÖ mandaters are given posts, so that the coalition loyalty is paid off, because political changes are only more of the way to private jobs for BZÖ, to private life. That's your political perspective, and that's why you really play a strong role in supporting your party friends. [[Abg. Neudeck: Which section has written this speech to you?]] Mr Kurzzeit-Exminister Reichhold: In 2001, he withdrew from his position in the country of Carinthia. At that time he said in an interview that he bought a tractor and is waiting for the delivery of 2 500 chicks. Now he becomes third board member at ASFINAG. I'm just wondering: What did he qualify for it? The tractor purchase or the delivery of the chicks, dear ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mrs Colleague, the Hendln are already five years old!]] Where are the qualifications, where are the criteria? – For you, the opposite is true of what applies to all Austrians. You don't want to comply with laws, you have an abjection, which is indescribable! With regard to the stencil regulation which you regularly disregard, the President of the Court of Auditors has already told you that this disregard is a step in the face of the rule of law. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not how the vineyard will be formed.]] Here is the real face of this government: At ÖIAG, €2.3 billion more money was wasted for the board of directors, for the posts. Mr. Disability Advocate Chief has already said, before there was a call for tender, that he is best qualified for this post at the time. He was the minister who introduced the ambulance charges, the accident pension tax – measures that pushed many disabled people to the brink of their existence. [[Abg. Wattaul: Now you're messed up!]] An office was created here. This self-service shop of the government is paid by taxpayers, and they are getting worse and worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wattaul: The BAWAG too!]] They want to see accomplishments, they don't want to see a mail chess team! They get less and less benefits for their tax money, which is no wonder, because they have to finance your mailer. Tax payers are not only locked up the toilets on the railway stations, but their assets are squandered, see Austria tobacco works. [[Abg. Wattaul: But these are your railway tradesmen!]] Nothing is done against unemployment, nothing is done in the field of education, and chaos prevails in the health sector. People deserve better. Step back and stop!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14326	Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14347	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Whoever has so much butter on his head in the field of party book economy and post chess – let me put it a little salopp – should at least avoid the sun, because the butter then melts very quickly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: No polemics from the government bank! What are you doing?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Add something to your request!]] [[Abg. Oils: We don't need buffs!]] We should try to shed light on the unwarranted and incessant post-posting accusations of the SPÖ from the past as well as from the present, and there are some. We should perhaps also try to shed light on the abuses in the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which has and is there. As regards the appointment of the former Federal Minister Reichhold to the ASFINAG Board of Directors, I would like to say the following: Reichhold has emerged from ten candidates as the best qualified candidate after evaluation by the internationally renowned Spencer Stuart staff consulting agency. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Reichhold is well qualified as a former Transport Land Council and as a former Transport Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Reichhold's appointment to the ASFINAG Board, ladies and gentlemen, was made unanimously by the ASFINAG Supervisory Board. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We know your consulting contracts!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your consultants are just as incapable as the people you are...!]] He was appointed unanimously – also with the three votes of the red works council representatives, and that says a lot! And neither Spencer Stuart nor the ASFINAG Supervisory Board do any people with a close relationship with the BZÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your ministry must be the President of the Court of Auditors... because it is so!]] Minister of Transport Hubert Gorbachwar did not deal with these matters at all! Dear ladies and gentlemen! By the way: How does the composition of the executives in the Boards of the Austrian Federal Railways look? At ÖBB-Holding AG: May. Huber von der ÖVP, Mag. Söllinger from ÖVP. Boards in the ÖBB infrastructure Bau AG: May. Trattner, FPÖ, Dr. Vavrovsky, ÖVP, Dipl.-Ing. Dooringer, SPÖ, former Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Dr. [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Parnigoni:... died! – That’s incredible!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Mr President! Mr President.]] Zimmermann from the SPÖ. [[Call at the SPÖ:You are really nothing at all...! That's a joke, that's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Mr President! It's unbearable!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni goes to the Bureau and talks to President Dr. Khol.]] Board members of ÖBB-Personenverkehr AG: Dr. Wehinger – who is partyless – Mrs. Dkfm. Goldmann von der SPÖ, Mr Poschalko von der SPÖ, Schmidt is again partyless. In ÖBB-Technische Services GmbH: Ing. Seiser from the SPÖ. At ÖBB-Traktion GmbH: Dipl.-Ing. Wiltberger von der SPÖ. At ÖBB-Immobilienmanagement GmbH: Ms. Mag. Steinacker from ÖVP. ÖBB-Dienstleistungs GmbH: Ing. Nigl, partyless, and Dipl.-Ing. Lindenberger von der SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I believe that highly qualified people should also take on a responsible task. In the same way, you also criticise the fact that a disabled lawyer is a former Social Minister. I have to tell you: Who is better qualified for the function of a disabled lawyer than someone who lives, knows himself there and works especially for disabled people? – This is our former Social Minister Mag. Herbert Haupt! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No one is aware that there are also officials such as a popular lawyer Kostelka, who does not give up his party political coat on the wardrobe, but is also bound to a fraction or belongs to a party, or a political politician of the Greens such as Petrovic, who is also active in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's not true at all! She's not in the Ministry of Economic Affairs at all...!]] Mr. Collaborator Herbs, as you said before, it will be so stored and it will be post chess in pure culture, what has happened in the present time, I remember you: At the Landes-Energie-Holding, the ESTAG, in Styria, the failed SPÖ politician Peter Schachner-Blazizek was saved, so to speak, who now took over the row from the retired Johannes Ditz and together with the luckless SP-Ex Minister of Finance Ferdinand Lacina and the lawyer Kurt Klein for the SPÖ sit in the control body. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Stop! It's going to be embarrassing now!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible! Whether federal execution or State Secretary,...!]] The Social Democrats then sent three members, the ÖVP two, the French co-owner EdF two and the staff representative four. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What happens in the SPÖ environment today is often stunning. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's not possible anymore! I can't! You're State Secretary!]] That's why I'm very surprised you're making this urgent request to the Federal Chancellor here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] First of all, locust-capitalism and the almost pleas of union-owned BAWAG, then resignations of the ÖGB tip and investigations due to suspicions of fraud and infidelity, and now the dreams of SPÖ workers' representatives are also raised, because: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] If an interim president, Rudolf Hundstorfer, deserves more than €5,000 in the ÖGB, as chairman of the Vienna municipal council, earns €7,200, then the price under the line will be €12 400. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Mr President!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Mr President. Is that what he can do from the government bank?]] [[Call to the SPÖ: This is embarrassing even to Mr. Molterer!]] But not only that: Also the ÖGB Vice-President, who is sitting here in the High House, Mrs Csörgits, who repeatedly complains that the people deserve too little – because she is simply ill-negotiated and for the people in trade is little inside – deserves more than €5,000 in the form of her functional fee, as a national council member she also deserves, and she comes monthly to over €13 191. – That’s fact, and you’re talking about mail chess! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have nothing more to say!]] The GPA Chairman Wolfgang Katzian also said: He earns €5 500 as ÖGB Chairman, and also with other institutions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How much do you deserve, Mr Dolinschek?]] And that's how it goes. The best earner of the ÖGB functionaries is by the way of the railway trade union and chairman, President Wilhelm Haberzettl. This even comes in total at €13 400 per month – that is €187 000 per year. Amazing here are also the secretaries' careers within the union. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... State Secretary for Association Law, or what?]] The ÖGB as a voluntary representative of employees – which is also important! – should actually act over-participally – even if there are fact-of-the-art fact fractions there – but not as a domestic power of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Oellinger: You are State Secretary!]] And the knitting between SPÖ board, ÖGB presidents and also with those people who had the responsibility in BAWAG is adventurous! [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Your tax listing!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sit down! That's irresponsible!]] [[Abg. Eder: Thank God you're not there for long!]] The Executive Secretary Richard Leutner is also well-ordered with several well-dominated things. [[Abg. Eder: You won't be there long!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Step back!]] The pension privilege of the ÖGB functionaries is also very, very amazing: They will receive an ASVG pension, which will be calculated to reach 80 percent of the last asset – and this will be co-financed by ÖGB member contributions! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] And that's exactly the reason you've had a member hurt like that! I am an ÖGB member myself, and I do this in my heart that you have never used yourself for those people, for those workers who work in small and medium-sized enterprises, but always for those where you have organized. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Pay back your salary immediately!]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] And now it's like the money's going to be too little there. We should also debate this, ladies and gentlemen, because this is of great interest to the Austrians. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Step back!]] That interests thousands of people! [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Your parliamentary speech here!]] [[Abg. Eder: Inability to go no more!]] Mr Kogler, you should also contribute to the fact that thousands of Austrians are being informed of how a scandal has occurred in the BAWAG and how many debts have been accumulated, and that the members' contributions of the ÖGB members are also properly managed and are not thrown out to the window, speculated and brought into a foundation where the individual member then has no right at all! [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible what you're doing out there! Shame!]] Therefore: First, take care of your responsibility before you walk on to others!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14899	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14924	Mr President. I know that under your presidency there was always agreement between the political groups, between the parties, that there should be no polemics from the government bank. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to speak to the Secretary of State, too, because what we have now experienced was pure polemics from the government bank, beyond the enforcement of laws for which the Secretary of State is responsible and to which he could have spoken. That was just more cheap polemics, Mr. State Secretary! I'm sorry – also in view of the office's reputation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14958	Next word on business treatment: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e14983	Mr President. If we want to take ourselves seriously, it is necessary that the parliamentary instruments applied by the parties, in this case now by an opposition party, be taken seriously by the government representatives. What is happening here has had nothing to do with the urgent question we have raised here! Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, has here taken a polemic, scandalous position, which has nothing to do with it at all! And if you signal this, namely, that you no longer take Parliamentary instruments and facilities seriously here, then we do not need to be surprised when people look at us all out there and eventually have no respect for this house! – You are primarily responsible for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15017	Mr Scheibner spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15042	I think that the bad image of politicians is precisely caused by such political actions: that one assumes that a politician cannot assume a role in the economy. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] That's, I think, the problem. We agreed that we should be very careful that the government bank does not operate a polemic towards Members, especially on the basis of experience from the 1990s, but it cannot be prohibited to present facts and facts here, i.e. the truth. And that's what State Secretary Dolinschek did.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15080	Further word on business treatment: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15105	Mr President. I think that this question should affect us all as far as the reputation of politics is concerned. And, Mr Cap, I think we are all well advised not to question one thing: that politicians, no matter what couleur, are able and qualified to perform economic functions. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: But that's not the topic!]] This concerns every party in this House and I attach great importance to it: [[Further calls at the SPÖ: But this is not the topic!]] I do not want politics devalued and politicians have also not devalued! That's why I understand the motivation of the urgent, but that's going to go back! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, for you!]] I respect and I also support the fact that polemics should not be given by the government bank. However, I note that, of course, members of the Federal Government must also be able to show facts – and nothing else has happened. [[Call the SPÖ: “Facts”!]] The facts have been shown and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15173	Yes, ladies and gentlemen in plenary: I have referred to the Secretary of State, well-known, what a hot debate it is before he has spoken, also on the issue of polemics from the government bank. And I have followed the remarks very closely and attentively. However, in view of these statements on business treatment, I will once again look at the grounds of request and the subsequent debate and, should it be necessary to have an exchange of views at the Presidential Conference. [[Abg. Eder: He's not coming anymore! He's mad!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's his last speech anyway! That's the only good thing!]] Mrs Mandak has spoken on an actual amendment. 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15221	Mr President. High house! In connection with the reply of the urgent question concerning Postenschacher, Mr Dolinschek, State Secretary, raised an accusation against greenery. He claimed that Madeleine Petrovic had joined the Ministry of Economic Affairs in March 2000, at a time when she was already a politician. I would like to correct the following: Madeleine Petrovic worked in the Social Ministry from 1984 to 1990 and was then a politician for 10 years and returned to the Ministry from 2000 to 2000. Since in the meantime her department had been transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, she was active in the Ministry of Economic Affairs from 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15262	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I would like to say a threefold thank you to the SPÖ for today's urgent question: a thank you to the chairman Gusenbauer, a thank you to the Clubobmann Cap and also to Mrs Bures, who probably cut out these urgents – in Loipersdorf probably, where the SPÖ Group has already practiced for the Baden-Gehen in autumn. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, a warm thank you, because today you offer us an opportunity to explore your condition a little bit, but also to the scandals, to the post-chachers, to the pleas of the great colony of the SPÖ plumbers. [[Call the SPÖ:This government!]] There are all the other things you mention today, a kolibri against what you have on the cherry! But it's quite that way. You have the strategy – and you probably have developed it in Loipersdorf –: Attack is the best defense! Let go! We're going to get rid of what it gives to distract from our real problems! And they are not small, ladies and gentlemen: BAWAG scandal – a permanent burner will be that! Today: ORF reports – you have read it in the early days or heard it – that further complaints of €1.4 billion come from America, where the bank is taxed where the last end of the debtor, namely the ÖGB, is used. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're already messing up the numbers!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing to laugh at, but it is sad – sad for all those who have confidence in the banking landscape of Austria! And you have done more damage to your policy, to your plea policy in Austria than anything else before! There were the sanctions you supported, a small thing against what you are now doing to damage the bank location in Austria. That's the sadness, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then go here and say: That has nothing to do with us! BAWAG – as President Gusenbauer said – we have never heard that! What's the BAWAG? What's the ÖGB? We don't know him! We're the SPÖ, we're the party! We have nothing to do with all this! – That has been your argument! They've made a child-moving that's been looking for their own since then. It has just been said: It is three pillars that the SPÖ carry, namely the union, the “consumer” and the party. – Well, two pillars are already gone. Now we're waiting for what's going on with the third. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the scandals! We heard today: ARBÖ. There, too, you have a self-service shop. This is in your area, but still: Listen to what your members say! Hear what your ARBÖ members – from the Austrian Workers' Bicycle Association – say when they hear that the top officials deserve more than the Federal Chancellor and the Federal President! You have to explain that to your people yourself. Go to the main tables and hear what's being spoken there! Go to the main tables! Do not dinen in Marbella and the like, but rather listen to the main tables in Austria! There you hear what people think and what they feel: You're upset about this sluggishing of money! [[Abg. May. Kogler: We are not the...-Institute, we are the Parliament! Why don't you talk to me about this?]] – And now you go here and want to polemise and criticize government policy under the title “Postenschachers” and apply it as counter-strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that! You will not succeed because the discussion in Austria is quite different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we're talking about post chess, we'll see: How is it in the red Vienna, in the municipality of Vienna? Can you tell me some staff in the magistrate of Vienna – you can probably count them on the fingers of a hand – that are not counted as the red half of the empire? There's an Indian a pale face against the red town hall company! Can you tell me those employees in the Chambers of Workers – in Vienna, in Upper Austria – who do not belong to the SPÖ? Can you list me,... – What is it? [[Abg. Krainer: In part, they are candidates for other parties to the National Council!]] Who's running? [[Abg. Krainer: AK staff!]] AK staff. [[Abg. Krainer: With other parties!]] That's right? No, I just said that there are only four undeclared SPÖ-lers in the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, for example. That's crazy! And then they must not even choose the person representation because they do not bring the list together, because such pressure is being exerted, that they do not receive a list of support. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Scandal!]] That's fact! Also the list of those SPÖ artists, ladies and gentlemen – here I have them; in the absence of speaking time it is not possible for me to present them here: what a Mr. Climate was, what a Mr. Lacina was, what all others were, Mr. Rudas and what they all call what they have become. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] – You go out, throw stones and sit yourself in the glass house! That doesn't fit! Go inside and say: mea culpa! We regret everything that happened! We regret the scandals! We declare ourselves responsible for this! It has happened in our dark circle, in our sphere of influence, out of our guilt! – Then the situation looks different, then you are again a serious interlocutor. But just as you do, namely, having the scandals on your own and then going out and criticizing others, inventing scandals where there is no one, ladies and gentlemen, is a little bit strong and an almost even stronger piece than usual. Ladies and gentlemen, now I am coming to the end, and of course I have prepared a four-liner, which, on the basis of the scandals, cannot be a four-liner, but an eight-liner is three columns that carry us, so the Sozis were heard to say: [[Abg. Dr. One: That's it!]] “Consum”, union and party. It's over with this wisdom. Two of them already fell: the ÖGB and the “consumer”. And in the National Council elections, the third will also fall. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15464	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15488	Mr President. High house! Mr Grossruck has tried to present as a fact that the SPÖ had given rise to sanctions. [[Abg. Großruck: We know you were! Who drank champagne?]] – Mr deputies, that already has such a long beard – and has never been true! The fact is that the SPÖ did not impose any sanctions. And if you could put it to someone because it used him, then that could only be the German Chancellor's bowl, because Chirac and Aznar were the triggers. [[Abg. Neudeck: But this is not an actual correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15549	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15571	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! “My dear ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the practices in developed market economies, you need to see one thing very clearly: In the United States of America – because of its productivity, it is rightly a highly praised market economy with various social shadows – it is fully on the agenda that there is an open system between economy and politics and that people from the economy are going into politics.” And if they “get out of politics again...” go back to the economy. “Just call me a single American politician who, after his time in the Senate, in the House of Representatives or in the American Government, has not seamlessly transferred to an American business, because there is total flexibility there!” “I ask you all: Do you think that, as a whole, you believe that, after your parliamentary activity, you are no longer suitable for an economic position in that country, ladies and gentlemen? Where is your parliamentary self-confidence?" “My dear ladies and gentlemen! What signal will be given if anyone who has a party book is no longer required to have a function in the economic field in that country? – That really means that people want to get away from political participation. And that’s against democracy.” On all four paragraphs, the Social Democracy has given its assent. Why? . In 1999, there was a urgent request from Mr Scheibner, and that of me just quoted is an extract from the speech, I say, President Gusenbauer. And now I have to ask: Where is the applause for this speech now? - Stressed silence! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I would rather be quiet in your place and say nothing about it, because if this is a speech of Gusenbauers, then at least one should be able to expect social democracy to support it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] If one takes the approach of social democracy directly towards a Minister Reichhold, who is highly regarded, or towards other ministers... – I do not allow the peasantry to be discredited. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will get out of here once and take this straight away. Farmers are also entrepreneurs, and we do not allow you, especially you, honourable Members, to break down the peasantry in particular the social democrats as a professional politician. Where are we? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Being a farmer is more than just a few bucks to order and buy a tractor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Mayor Reheis is supposed to tell the farmers that they seem to have no entrepreneurial skills. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: I'm not talking about the Hendln...!]] They're talking about a farmer who's also a businessman. You're talking about a minister who did good work. They're talking about a man who worked for two years at Magna, who did a good job there. Is it no longer permitted for people to go back to politics and then back to the economy? [[Abg. Scheibner: Only the Rudas!]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Why didn't he stay with MAGNA when he's so good?]] Should I show you the list? – Before the ÖBB reform: Schmidt: SPÖ; Wiltberger: Group of the European People's Party Moldaschl, personnel: SPÖ; Seiser, Technical Services: SPÖ; SPÖ, SPÖ, SPÖ. – I can show you! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What is it now, Mr. Colleague?]] Then we have had a change, and do you know what the next Transport and Infrastructure Minister did? – I tell you who is inside now – do we all let them go because of inability? –: Ms Goldmann, who is on the Board of Directors; Mr. Frey, who's at Postbox. Or do we take Board of Management Dipl.-Ing. Door finger: SPÖ; Executive Board Dipl.-Ing. Klugar, former SPÖ Minister of Foreign Affairs – do we release them for inability? Is that what you want? - No, I'm saying the order. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course it is. Let's go on: Goldmann: SPÖ; Poschalko: SPÖ; Ing. Seism: SPÖ; Wiltberger: SPÖ; Lindenberger: SPÖ – in this list, under the current government, there are very many to be included in the SPÖ. On the other hand, if there were a different form of government, you wouldn't see any of the BZÖ's in this list, and if there were a single government, no one from the ÖVP. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15696	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15718	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Obviously, the previous speaker has listed those names that have not yet been added to coloring, for how do all always know exactly who has what color? [[Abg. Neudeck: They have only been re-ordered!]] Don't worry about it. The quote that Mr Wittauer brought at the beginning of his remarks, of course, already bears in it a certain amount of wisdom. That's our position, too. Of course, it is primarily not about the fact that someone who goes into politics should not become anything more afterwards or that someone who is something before, when he goes into politics, should not become anything after that. [[Abg. Scheibner: But basically, it's already that way with you, isn't it?]] I think that Mr Molterer was right, even though he did so in the debate on the Rules of Procedure. That's not the point. We must measure this by certain criteria in order to maintain this very thing if this is to be the common principle. They have taken action with “rerule. ” I say to you that it is only necessary to look at the density of the accusations of the Court of Auditors' reports on the periods in the 1990s on what is now taking place in the relevant sector. And in what debate are we, by the way? – It’s about overcoloring, about postage chess at the federal level, well noticed because there’s a few going into my home country, also from the government bank. We can also say something about this if you want to be informed about this, Mr State Secretary. Only: When it comes to overcoloring and ordinary mail chess, we have also discovered new qualities. Now you could tell us – we should also take note of this –: They're talking easy! Maybe you're right, maybe that's different in 30 years. Power grace of late political birth, and we have not yet been in any government. Well; could you say. But we will not give up on our credibility, because we have not yet been able to do so. And so, of course, it makes a difference with which glasses are considered here. Of course, it was to be expected that you will have nothing else to do again, except the SPÖ, whether in word reports or in obstinates, to keep an alleged scapegoat. But you refuse to understand or even to look at what has happened since 2000! That's why it's here, and that was the core of the question. There is nothing to help you if you shout a hundred times “BAWAG! ” or something else. In addition, Mr President, with regard to the interpretation of the right of interconnection, I must say to you: It was here for a few minutes in speeches, such as in those of previous speaker Missethon, exclusively about things that have nothing to do with the federal execution, whether because they have affected Styrian national execution, EStAG, whether it is because he spoke only about the private bank BAWAG, which stands in the 100% property of a private person, a private association, the ÖGB, swadroned, and that is unlit. Be it, but we will use this in the future to assess what is covered by the law of the Interpolation, because, in the opposite case, you know exactly what we understand here in the house as “checking emergency”: that, in the case of clear questions that are very likely to have something to do with federal execution, one is constantly pushed into the corner, that at the end one does not get an answer. And the Bureau of the National Council has to decide on a certain procedure. We've learned a lot again today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's something good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You also need to learn something!]] That's where we like to learn. We have already had to find in the overcoloring process that they have happened in a way that is rare, in some areas across, in any case from very large numbers and to the most fun and funniest areas. And, of course, you also have to hold that this is not free of charge. That cost millions! This question has been clearly formulated. You didn't even look for an excuse for why you didn't answer them. That was interesting, because with all the others there was some reason, whether they were still so correct or wrong. This has remained open, which is probably not so easy to calculate, but it is probably a very large number. I now bring you other examples, those of the classic, the ordinary, the simple post-chacher, quite simple things that concern not only the BZÖ, which now clearly, with strong handling of the black majority of governments, sees the Republic as a compost heap for lazy oranges, which all still have to roll somewhere. Because that's also small, because you didn't want to believe it. Conference Centre, Austria Center Vienna: Immediately the Supervisory Board was exchanged there because it obviously didn't fit, from the blue grasser at that time – today he would probably be with the oranges if he wasn't already almost black; but he has to do that with you. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Dolinschek.]] - Wait, what's coming! Next point: These Supervisory Boards are looking for a new Executive Board – that must be it. But you have to know that the new “supervisory councilman” has, of course, become a golf friend of Grasser from Carinthia, with whom he used to deal with some hotel buildings. Okay. Then was sought who will be of 50 candidates of the board of directors. – For this purpose, staff consulting offices have also been paid for “sauteures” tax money. And if that was the point now, then listen to what comes now: There it was once again Egon Zehnder, who had already become behavioral at the ÖIAG in the Dunstkreise Prinzhorns and his friends, but here it was another. And what happened? – That at the end of the Supervisory Board chairman, who is the Golf-Friend Grassers, the Executive Board must become. An absurd process, massively criticised by the Court of Auditors. And who will be the new Chairman of the Supervisory Board – because this position has become free again? The next golf friend of that and of Grasser. It's just stupidly sitting in Mallorca, and that's why the effort has increased accordingly, because it always has to be flown in. And how does he know that? – From any time when the two have appeared together in the tourism business as animators. And it will continue to be uniformly colored. This is even the new kind of nepotism: He doesn't even need a party book, but only has to golf with Grasser. That's the new party book! Black-orange. [[Abg. Neudeck: He hasn't been on a golf course for a year and a half!]] Meanwhile, I predict that the waiter of the local, where they always meet, will soon get a job at the Austrian Center Vienna. You could check it out, because probably it's already that far. We have credible information. You have to be able to play golf – this is the new qualification! [[Abg. Neudeck: That was the woman Vranckky! Not with us!]] You don't always have to ride around in the upper batches and floors, you can also bring the small fine examples. Let's take a look at what you did with the old porter there; I guess that wasn't good. That's your "rerule"? – I really have to say that these things should and must be measured. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Speaking of competence: Of course, it is already a bit bold to talk about “specially competent” in the context of this matter Reichhold. The entire BMVIT, since you took over, has been a hort of serial incompetence. For this very reason, you have replaced the ministers in a row: Schmidt doesn't remember anyone, he just said he was overwhelmed with it. Mrs Forstinger did not say it, but everyone saw it, too, and it didn't take long for you to replace her again. Then Reichhold was briefly responsible for this – then he was at MAGNA, where he got an area for space research. Now, the space at MAGNA is obviously sufficiently researched, now Reichhold is turning to the graves again. That's your picture of competence! It smells like heaven, and with it you have shot a gate that seeks the same. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You didn't do anything good with that. You must not be upset, therefore, if you have to let such urgent ones pass over you. But the fact that you have only humor and ridicule left for the other side only shows that you didn't understand anything at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15855	Next word: Mr Reheis. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e15876	Mr President. Expensive members on the federal bank! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out here that this urgent matter is of particular importance and that it is very, very important that this is discussed here today. But this issue is not only important and urgent, but sometimes very embarrassing. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] I have heard exactly what Mr Dolinschek, the State Secretary, has said here. He referred to the late Mr. Dooringer here in his list of members of the ÖBB Board of Directors. This is simply embarrassing and unpleasant. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Incredible!]] They are persecuting people to the point of death. This shows your incompetence as a State Secretary! It can't be like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] State Secretary Morak has here named Androsch, Ederer, Ruttenstorfer, Scholten, Vranckky et cetera and brought these persons out of office as examples of occupations after leaving. [[Abg. Scheibner: But positive!]] – I have to say: There is a substantial difference, and this essential difference is called qualification, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever presented qualification or post chess today – which nobody else can write so beautifully and well – is Pammesberger with his cartoon in today’s “Kurier”: “Matthias Reichhold Bio-Hendl”, and a chicken says smiling: “The Bauer Becomes Minister!” The second chicken laughs more strongly and says: “Now he’s going to be FPÖ chief!” His opposite laughs: ‘Haha!’ Then the two chickens say: “And top manager at Magna!” “And ASFINAG!” and grow out of laughter. And finally – the two chickens lie on their backs, they can't be anymore – it says: "Because he's so qualified!!” – Ladies and gentlemen, that speaks volumes! [[Abg. Scheibner: But we don't see it, you have to show it!]] You don't need to write about this anymore and quote it great. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation of this black and colored German government, which Austria has been ruling for more than six years now, can also be illustrated in a visual way. [[Abg. Neudeck: Well governed!]] - No, bad government. – I think of this as a black super tanker, filled with some oranges in blue boxes, and this tanker crosses Austria, burdening the people and the environment of our beautiful country, and through incredible human wear your ship will waste and is about to sink. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Did the Pammesberger write this down?]] What happens when a ship sinks? – There is chaos in the team, the captain silences and looks perhaps affected. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You know this from BAWAG and ÖGB!]] The small grey animals with the long tails leave the ship – popularly that means: The rats are leaving the ship! –, a swirl pulls everything with it, and people jump overboard. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr President!]] Only the artists of this Federal Government do not have to swim over the sea, but in good time bring their sharps into the dry and well supplied by the black and colored Federal Government. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you mean by rats? Who do you mean with the rats?]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is post-chakers of the worst and most indecent way! There are simply laws being changed because managers who have been removed from office lacked the appropriate conditions. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you speak from the time of 1999, in the late autumn?]] Tenders do not take place or are simply bypassed. Hearings are not considered necessary; the qualification “black-colored” is quite sufficient, and should by chance there be no suitable position or well-dominated position in which one could have a failed minister or party official, simply and simply create a new position. [[Abg. Neudeck: October, November 1999 was that, wasn't it?]] [[Abg. Prince: Who, then, has written this “sacred” speech?]] – That’s your policy! [[Abg. Prince: Who wrote you that?]] [[Call:You've been better already]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a serious issue. On this page, Postenschacher takes place, it is created to provide well-informed services for political officials – and on the other hand, 400 000 Austrians have no work and have to look at how they get through month after month. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The motto of this federal government looks like this: It is only chosen when the last BZÖler is supplied. Until then, the ÖVP buys the consent of its government partner and allows it to do so. – The question is: Why do you think? This is currently a single government with the support of a willing partner, and that is the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16117	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Requested time: 5 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16138	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, it is known that I am one of those who have been here in Parliament for some time. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So far one of the good guys!]] As a result, I have already experienced a lot of such urgent requests. But today's milestone, Mr Cap, has not been a special milestone, because what has been offered here today is not a glorious one. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always a survey in Austria, a so-called ranking of the most important, credible professional groups, careers and so on. [[Abg. Prehauser: State Secretary!]] At the top are the firemen, the doctors, the nurses, the nursing staff, as I mean, rightfully, the farmers, in fourth place. At the bottom of the scale, the politicians find themselves, only more superior by the journalists. And obviously a competition starts here: Who's worse? And today's day has contributed to this – for which you are responsible – that we have fallen further down in this ranking, ladies and gentlemen. Let's say that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, and then you are surprised, and in the familiar conversation under four or six eyes you complain bitterly, why the professional image of the politician, the image of the politician is so bad. I don't know any company, I don't know any industry that could be on the market permanently if it only made the product of the other one bad in the long run. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] I don't know a product or a company. In politics, however, this is obviously the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're not going around anywhere like that, and that's something I'm really sorry about as someone who's been here in the high house for a long time. For if today, on your part, the massive accusation of the poster was raised and the accusation that everything would be recolored, I wonder: Yes, what color did everything have so far? For if this corresponds to the balance of qualifications, then there would be nothing to paint, ladies and gentlemen. Or, for your part, has everything been colored if the position, when it is changed, is recolored? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Tell us this, ladies and gentlemen, tell us! I do not want to keep the list of ministers and State Secretarys in question. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I claim that there are you, there are here, there are the Greens, but there are also just as excellent, capable people with us, whether they were in politics or not. And I don't want the politician to be worth nothing in the long run. That's what we're all suffering. Let's take this a little more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If someone is a powerful person in the private sector because he has a variety of functions, this is an interesting leader in the image. If so, ladies and gentlemen... – Mr Jarolim! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] You've really failed, you're going in. And be You're a bit quieter! Just you don't need to give something of yourself here. Be really quiet! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there are great managers in the private sector or also in the national lighting sector of earlier times or today in the state lighting sector, they are sought and are viewed internationally. Special emphasis is placed on performance. If in politics someone, wherever, Wurst, which group, has several functions, then he is an office cumuler. And if we keep this up all the time, please don't be surprised that the image will go down even further. We have something else to do here, ladies and gentlemen. It cannot be that a former minister, a former State Secretary, and from me a former clubman or an interlocutor would not be able to operate in the management of a private company. I appreciate Mr Reichhold, and you should do exactly the same. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: The problem is that exactly this post was saved!]] Mrs Moser! Think about Upper Austria! Then you'll certainly be a little calmer here, because there's enough to think, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Nothing at all! We have introduced the objectivity there!]] But I know some journalists who were obviously Starjournalists in their profession. Hardly were they in politics, they were star sniffs, politically seen. They were gone! Obviously they weren't so good. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I do not want to say anything to Mr Broukal, which I appreciate too much. He gave excellent lectures, was a top earner, is in truth today, so he says himself in an interview, a poor mouse with his political content. I got it here. “They don’t want me,” he says about his group. But that's his problem, that's not something I have to worry about. Ladies and gentlemen! If today a group sitting in the glass house speaks of post-chacher, that is, I think, a dangerous game. Mr Cap! Her luck was that today so few listeners, so little spectators have heard it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16287	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16314	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! Mr Reheis said that people are being persecuted until death. Mr President, I should like to thank I'll remind you of what's wrong with you. Praschak has happened. [[Abg. Faul: Or with Gauster!]] I'll remind you. And read again what he wrote in his letters, how the SPÖ has dealt with people in the time you were in the government to create positions for former ministers. [[Abg. Reheis: Did you do this better? You can only do such a thing if you do something better!]] I quote from these letters from these areas: Director Randa said all the politicians sat him in the neck to find a job for Dr. Scholten. – I think the name is still known to you. – Director-General Randa stresses that he has rarely been subjected to such political pressure in his life. The four most important ones would have been the old and current chancellors as well as the Minister of Finance and the Mayor of Vienna – by the way, all of them from the SPÖ. – And Randa continues: I should therefore probably consider whether it is at all possible to say no. – So said Randa, according to one of the letters from Mag. Praschak. And you know what happened to Praschak. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Think of your private story, Mrs. Colleague!]] Consider what it means to exert political pressure, and come very firmly in front of your own door, before you sit here and talk about post chess. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I take your words, Mr Reheis: They are persecuting people to the point of death. I'll take your words, Klubobmann Cap. I'm going to stand up to post-achievers with full force. – If you really want to take yourself seriously now, then you drive quickly and quickly into the Styria. Drive to the head of state Voves, your SPÖ-Voves! Go there and talk to him, but very quickly if you really happen to post chess. For you, someone is only a good managing director, a good chairman, a good chairman of the Supervisory Board when he belongs to the SPÖ. Only then is he good and otherwise not good. And that's the wrong view of things. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the one-sided SPÖ view of the things you're showing here, because you know exactly what's happening in the Styria. And it has to be told you again and again. The motto is: Get out of here, check out chess and Lacina. “Postenschach n rei” is now called this. Postenschach nrei has been under Schachner-Blazizek as the head of the SPÖ, and this will continue. He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Energy Styria. If it went to you, he wouldn't be sitting there as a former politician. These are the things you're doing. There is also an ex-Finanzstadtrat in Graz, 1968 to 1993 Financial City Council, then after this time – 1968 I was born, so it was really long in politics – Supervisory Board at the airport, Supervisory Board at the Stadtwerke since 1965 and now Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Grazer Stadtwerke. What do you think is how old the Old SPÖ Ex-Finanzstadtrat and Ex-Citizen Master is? – 84 years! Is still Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Stadtwerke! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you have against the old people?]] You seem to find no better than this old-fashioned politician, who gets a best political board, gets the best pension benefits. There's really other people in there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's a long register. In the KAGs, at the head of the control body, you have nominated Mr. Joszeffi, an employee of the company of ex-minister Androsch; he probably does not sit there either. And current Members here are sitting on the Supervisory Board of the Research Society Joanneum Research, you know that. Federal Boards will become heads of state school councils. These are all SPÖ people, standing politicians. – If it went to you, they wouldn’t all sit in there, because when it came to you, politicians, ex-politics, even no ability to sit in any position. Think about what you're doing! Turn in front of your own door and don't throw stones when you sit in the glass house, because you know and you know it now: It hurts.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16414	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. 5 minutes of welcome; The Group's remaining speaking time: 8 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16439	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm easy to do, I'm going to be in front of my own house. I like to sit in the glass house because you can't throw a single stone against us greens. We have a government participation in Upper Austria, but there is no green mail chess, there is no green occupation there, it is clearly described after qualification, Mr Auer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It has been developed a strenuous objectivating process. It was, I believe, necessary at least seven hours of negotiations to ensure that there are clear conditions. And that, please, is the norm for me, and that for me is the standard I am laying on the past and present. And if I put it to the present, please, then I have to say that at present such a one-sided black or blue dyeing is taking place, a care care is special, both in one and the other areas, that the proportion was on the other, I tell you when you examine it more closely. It was a guy who used to be a kid. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Today in the “Kurier”, that was only the small tip of the iceberg. I can read eight pages to you, eight pages Best of Gorbach, because the ÖVP has decided to accept that the area of infrastructure, that the area of the Ministry of Transport, that the field of research policy is the reserve for disposal or for the supply of people coming from the former blue camp. This seems to be tolerated by the ÖVP. Some ÖVPler have already told me: That's how it's driven no one of us in the best times of the great coalition. This is a new negative quality. - That's what ÖVPler told me, please. [[Abg. Scheibner: They show us once, the ÖVPler!]] And they also reported to me, saying, Please, step into this bubble. That's really devastating what's happening there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Such a fairy tale hour!]] Mr. Ex-Minister Reichhold is only the head of an iceberg, and he can be quite qualified for MAGNA, he can be qualified for any other economic position. He can also be qualified from me for the ASFINAG. However, the fragility is the fact that Minister Gorbach has sold the reduction of the number of supervisory posts in the ASFINAG to two as a large savings measure, and now, one and a half years later, a new board of directors named Reichhold is being made, and he then earns €250 000 per year, which has to pay a highly indebted ASFINAG, which the drivers have to pay through their vignette contributions, which normally, I tell you quite honestly, could pay 6 100 fuel fillings of cars. First, Gorbach says: Save, then it says: Carry it out. Excuse me, the chickens, even at the Minister's farm, are laughing, I tell you. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was great!]] But now, please, just go to the register. First: Tender policy. Look at it at the ÖBB! There someone is looking for operation for the ÖBB infrastructure because the current board of directors has to switch to infrastructure construction. Then the tender is formulated in such a way as to require an east language. You have to imagine that! In the infrastructure operation, which ends at the Austrian border, the call for tender is an east language! And you know why? – Because there is only one who advertises and has been learning Russian for years, namely, the much quoted Arnold Schepher. That's it. Calls for tenders are being tailor-made. Of course, he is then qualified with the Eastern language in the infrastructure operation. Gerhard Sailer, extra post created in the ministry. Monika Närr, Rail Technology Cluster Austria. Josef Hackl, we've heard. Verena Heingärtner, Herbert Rudolph – all supply stories BMVIT and Austro Control. The President of the Court of Auditors has also brought some people from the blue sector to the Court of Auditors. Gilbert Trattner – we have heard this today from Mr. Klubobmann Cap – is also active in various functions in the field of public transport. Then I'll go on in my list. Reinhard Firlinger wanted to be Bahn-post-bus-chef, if it wasn't thanks to God, he was just about there. Every accompanying guide, “N.N.”, Marc Zimmermann. We have already talked about the ASFINAG Board of Directors. He's been called Reichhold since the latest. The head of the Patent Office, a tailor-made tender for Friedrich Rödler, who was previously Secretary General at the Ministry. Now this post has been out of the question for a long time, but it has not been deleted. One has not at last been saved and the posts have been deleted, no, he is now ready for Mrs Barbara Kappel, a confidant of Mr Prinzhorn's President-in-Office. Will be the next occupation. Prince, if only I can name one more name. Then, for example: Rumpold should get advertising orders. Thanks be to God, parliamentary requests have prevented this. Monika Forstinger has received orders to issue reviews et cetera for the real estate sector. - Yes, she certainly got orders, but she wasn't a minister before. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs. Langthaler has forgotten you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But deputies! It's all forbidden!]] Minister Böhmdorfer, now in the Supervisory Board and so on. Ingolf Scatter. Böhmdorfer has been involved in the ÖBB reform and now has a new Supervisory Board function. Helfried Jedlaucnik. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about this one? - He's an official!]] Now he's, I think, soon, section head. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do I mean, “I believe ”? Yes or no!]] Peter Franzmayr, Martin Santer, please, employed in rail transport. Christian Ebner, Helga Thomic-Sutterluty, was provided in the Ministry of Finance. Walter Riepler, Michael Gassauer. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What was Michael Gassauer for a politician?]] I'm not finished for a long time. Unfortunately, you have to pay your employees even overtime, because in regular working hours they are no longer able to complete the whole list at all. Gerhild Hofer, please. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – It’s not just about politicians, it’s about providing. It's about post-achieving and providing people who need to reorientate because of the fact that you're not going to be in the government any longer. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you have listed all the blues!]] And that you now provide them at the expense of taxpayers, all at the expense of Austrians, please, that's the new negative quality for me. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did we have to provide Mrs. Langthaler?]] This is the new negative quality. People are capable, you say. Please, they should apply wherever they want. [[Abg. Scheibner: Such nonsense you bring!]] Only to put them in any state function, only because they previously worked with you, in a ministerial office or elsewhere, that is a lack of qualification for me. [[Abg. Scheibner: What office did Mr. Gassauer work in? – There was Telekom Manager! You don't need to pay overtime for your employees! They're working badly! They should do better research!]] That's really post-chacher, postorgy of the worst kind. And then I would like to end with an example where the inconsistency is actually classical. Mr Scheibner, you know exactly, Mr Plech, in the real estate sector very successfully, is sitting in numerous supervisory councils and can use his knowledge, his insider knowledge from these supervisory councils of the Republic in different real estate areas, now at the end also with the barracks, so I look at you, Mr Scheibner, very useful also for private purposes. [[Abg. Scheibner: We can't sell them anyway, the barracks!]] That's an insider's knowledge he's got there. And this is in itself a classic inconsistency that one also puts someone from the real estate sector more or less into all supervisory positions that the Republic can occupy in the real estate sector. [[Abg. Scheibner: The experts come from the field!]] Unfortunately, I have to close with this negative example.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16673	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 5 minutes speaking time; The Group's remaining speaking time: 10 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16694	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Morak, at the beginning of his speech, has given some examples of how SPÖ politicians have become something great. He meant that Mr Ruttenstorfer was now at the OMV. Mr State Secretary, you may have missed the fact that Ruttenstorfer was already at the OMC before. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We know that!]] If I listen to the statements made by the Secretary of State today, I think it is a pity that we have no more State Secretary of the quality of a tortoise today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Ederer has not been accommodated in any state-in-state operation, Mr State Secretary, and Scholten has been in the control bank before and after. So taking this as an example is really something strange. It is not really so much about who belongs to, but it is about, ladies and gentlemen, that we have created a law in close-to-state establishments – the so-called employment law or as it is stated in the long text: The Federal Law on Transparency in Employment in the nearby business sector – with everything that has already been said today, up to the stencil regulation. I now recall the question raised by Secretary-General Morak, who referred to the third question that the Federal Chancellor's Office was not responsible. I should like to mention them again, ladies and gentlemen. The third question has been: Are you also of the opinion that the contracts of the ÖIAG Boards are not subject to the Employment Act or do your legal opinion differ from that of the Finance Minister? – It is about, ladies and gentlemen, that one simply does not comply with the employment law and is based on a counter-judgment that one can continue to conclude the privilege contracts. Mr President, Mr Morak, you have said that you are not responsible for this question. That is, you, the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor is not responsible if a federal law, which was passed by all here in 1998, is not complied with. That's the true scandal! There are laws that are bypassed, only to be able to run a post-checker, as one would like to do. This is the true scandal, ladies and gentlemen. If you have no answer, I wonder what the Federal Government can do! Mr Auer believes that we are polluting our own nest and that we are making each other bad and so on. Mr Auer, could it not be because politicians are at the very bottom of the picture series that they are guilty of not complying with laws that they themselves decide on? Could that not be the fault? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Are you doing this?]] That's a typical example, you haven't been watching: Employment law is invalid if the person you want does not come to the post. That's the fact, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Schwerberg!]] By the way, Swordberg, I'll tell you something. The ÖBB now has a large structural reform. This has caused no one to know each other. There is a private real estate company whose manager deserves far beyond all the figures mentioned today, that is, well over €300 000 a year. This restructuring with these expensive posts has led to the fact that you no longer know where the back and front is and what you are talking about in the ÖBB. [[Abg. Neudeck: Not you! You didn't know that before!]] I'll give you an example. The municipality of Schwerberg has taken a reason from the ÖBB, has negotiated it, signed it all, everything was fine, and suddenly I am flattered by the threat of having a problem with property on the desk! I was very amazed at the moment, then I inquired. It would be all over, everything done, but it just wasn't passed on. The new society has not known itself. She did not know what land was being used by others. This is structural reform? – That’s just a reform to have the posts you want distributed there too, but that’s not God’s! I quote what was said in the coalition agreements: Staff decisions shall be made in accordance with an objective, performance-oriented and comprehensible procedure. We want to abolish proporz and party book economy and give more co-decision to people. - Quote. This said no less than a German chancellor bowl. And what does he do? – He does not even adhere to laws, ladies and gentlemen! The voters will be very happy to honour this in the autumn. There you can cry for months “BAWAG” and “Federal Union” – the voters have their noses full. They don't want to let that happen anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16792	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 5 minutes speaking time; 6 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16813	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner, not we, not the BZÖ, do not need to talk about BAWAG. The BAWAG is talking about Austria anyway. Just now I got the new newspaper edition: ‘US-Justice is after BAWAG’. The title is not only the “Kronen Zeitung”, but also in the “Kurier”: “After US complaint, BAWAG’s sale becomes more difficult.” [[The speaker keeps the above-mentioned newspapers up to date.]] The real scandal happens quite elsewhere, not at post posts, but at BAWAG, at ÖGB and at SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! They are constantly speaking of Mathias Reichhold: The SPÖ itself is collaborating in the request the Gage of Mathias Reichhold with about 200 000 to 220 000 €. You can now discuss whether the job is high or low for a highly-dominated, important and time-consuming job in the ASFINAG. Only one thing is clear: There are still more than €100 000 less than €330 000, which Mr Elsner gets for missing twice a year at a meeting of the Lotto-Toto-Society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should keep that in mind! You can't distract from that. You can't distract from the fact that Mr Elsner has got 3 million € of this, you can't be distracted from the fact that there was a penthouse for it, and you can't even distract from the following fact: Whether you think farmers are qualified or not, in contrast to Mr Elsner and Mr Flöttl, Mathias Reichhold has not managed to speculate €1.3 billion and sink into the sand of the Caribbean. If this is the qualification to get a highly paid job, if that's the skills to get viewed jobs in close-to-state businesses or also somewhere in the private sector, then it's true, then Mathia's Reichhold is inappropriate, because he doesn't fulfill all these things: No penthouse, no 3 million € finish and no sinking of over 1 billion € in the sand of the Caribbean. I do not want to go into the comparisons that have been thrown back and forth between black and red. I would like to comment on a few comments that have been made before. Colleague Cap has stood out here, blatantly, as we know him – perhaps he will also get a job in a close-to-state operation, for example, the Bundestheater would come to my mind, where there would certainly be a use for him. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Kasperl!]] – Kasperl, I don't want to say that, I don't know, but Bundestheater would be a good thing. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Urania is not one of the Bundestheaters!]] He is here at the speaker's desk and complains that the ÖVP has such a massive influence on the ORF. Mr Cap, I think that this criticism of the influence of the ORF's ÖVP can only be based on the fact that you may not get through if Mr Molterer calls so many times. If you talk to the editors of the ORF, you will hear how often the SPÖ calls there and complains and would like something different! I can only give a small tip to judge friends in close-to-state establishments: If you don't get directly to the ORF, please select the phone number of Mr. Wrabetz, the commercial director of the ORF and a member of Mr. Gusenbauer, who already wants him as Director-General! Maybe you'll get through the phone number and you can claim your party political influence. Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mrs Moser, I am now reading to you something from the urgent question. There stands as an example of Dr. Forstinger, and it is massively criticized that she was able to work in close-to-state areas on a fee basis. - Do you know who I'm thinking about? – Mrs. Monika Langthaler, I think! – Yes, but a Member of this House! [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But she wasn't a minister!]] And do you know how your agency's reference list reads? – Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Federal Ministry of the Interior, Austrian Federal Forests – a very long list of Mrs. Monika Langthaler, who is also working as an entrepreneur in the state area, although she was a former politician. [[Abg. Mandak: Exactly! Although she was!]] At some point you should put off these scams, that politicians must be politicians by the last day! Politicians should also have a chance to work on it! And even if it doesn't fit your world picture, Mrs. Moser: Political representatives also have the right to pursue a normal profession after their political career – whether he is paid high or low. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now I'll tell you something – completely without polemics: The fact that you refer to Mrs N.N as an example of Mr. Infrastructural Minister's post office is such a thing of "deep" and such a thing of reprehensible! You do this just because she works as a simple cabinet secretary, because Mr. Vice-Chancellor selects a few employees who work in his cabinet, on a cabinet basis – not a job, not something long-term! - Do you know what? – You should be ashamed of that! Sage You prefer your colleague Mr. Anschober in Upper Austria, as a councillor, he should throw out all the staff he has hired from his cabinet! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16919	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[17:32:28]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16943	We are now entering into a short debate. This concerns the request of the honourable Member. Molterer and Scheibner, the Scientific and Research Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the Federal Council of 21 December 1970. of 1 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 1 April 2006. March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the University Law 2002 a period of time until 19. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e16977	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current debate on the setting of deadlines for a UG-Novelle is therefore necessary because the attitude of the opposition in the Federal Council has caused great uncertainty: great uncertainty in the matter of access to study, access to medical studies, modern forms of doctoral studies and other parts of the university law. What is it about in detail? – Secured study places for Austria, which was the challenge after the ECJ judgment. With the proposal for medical study, the Federal Government has proposed a practical, a sustainable, a comprehensive solution, a measure that has also been assessed as such by the EU Commission, by experts there – by legal experts, EU experts – and has been presented here in the High House as a "safeguard" rule – as it has then said – and has provided and will provide enough places for study. Nevertheless, the opposition did not take a positive view, but it was a decision of the government parties. Why don't you be! In a democracy this is also of high value, and in a two-chamber parliament the second chamber has the right to devote itself to this matter and treat it again. It seems that the opposition – with the treatment and with the subsequent opposition – has resulted in a great uncertainty in Austria – has taken over the SPÖ and the Greens: students, universities, parents' homes, schools. – We know that medical universities have already started a pre-registration in February and have waited for the parties to act in the second chamber to make a provision for the next weeks in order to cope well with the storm of German students after the “Austrian solution” has been cancelled. As has been said, this regulation, adopted by the National Council, has not been approved, it has been denied that 95 per cent of EU citizens have a right to access the medical school, 75 per cent of it, and that Austrians or holders – you have to say correctly – will be of mature certificates issued in Austria, 20 per cent of seats should be reserved for non-Austrian nationals. The good thing has also been that, with a 20 percent increase in the number of study places, the previously available places for Austrian maturers are to be made available de facto. Nothing of that convinced the opposition! It has been important for you to create an uncertainty through a blockade in the Federal Council – as I said – although not only the government parties were convinced of the correctness of this solution, but also the medical representation – it has welcomed this regulation. The rectors' conference welcomed this scheme and said: Finally, there is security in the design of university access! The medical universities and ÖH representatives have begun to qualify this as a proper provision and solution, and have said: It must not be used on the back of the students' insecurity. – As said: All this did not convince, and the SPÖ and the Greens continued their zigzag course, which we already know from other materials, in the Federal Council. How did you behave in detail? You have to remember this once again to say: Is this party qualified to be able to report government work in the direction of government participation at all? In September 2005, SPÖ requested a centrally coordinated, objective, comprehensible version of admission criteria. - Good. Head of State Burgstaller has even gone up and talked about Studienplatz-Management à la Fachhochschulen – that was quite new! We were very surprised that such a thing can come from a SPÖ-moon! In December, Gusenbauer said that we need a return to the old regulation, as if there had never been the ECJ judgment. – I am very surprised how this can only be said by a statesman or a statesman. Then it goes on, just before Christmas: We need European agreements. – Well, on the other hand, you don’t really have to act, that’s probably useful, but it’s probably only if there are national solutions before. Therefore, once again, Mr Broukal's attempt to say in January: Yes, country of origin, return, that's great. – I don't know how he even did it. There is another swivel and another “ zig” in the zigzag curve: Cross-border student flows should be dealt with in European law, says Broukal for SPÖ – as if this were easy with a small national “law” as if there were no pressure over the coming academic year. Then Broukal makes the approval of the “Safeguard” regime, which I have already described, subject to the Commission’s approval. The European experts say that: That beats the barrel out of the ground! That would be said overall, because the Commission has never interfered in national legislation. I quote Europe's legal experts Rack: “If Broukal calls for prior consent from the EU Commission, this testifies to the ignorance of the European processes...” – in fact, it is not much to add to this. I repeat: The uncertainty policy of SPÖ and Greens has created an uncertainty at the universities that regrets both the doctor's chamber president Brettenthaler – he calls the "partactical migration of a necessary plan at the expense of the students" – as well as the rector's conference. To this end, I would like to "The opposition of the Federal Council against the UG-Novelle... and the resulting delay in the law-making process take note of the Austrian Rectors' Conference (ÖRK) with great regret. The WCC reaffirms its view that... the possibility of access restrictions in the subjects of human medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine and biology, psychology, pharmacy, business administration and publicity” – that is, in the eight Numerus-clausus subjects – “must be maintained because the previous observation period does not allow for a final assessment.” The Chairperson and the Vice-President of the ÖH-Medicine align themselves with this and say: "The long discussion on the quota system must now have an end. ... The political debate must not be carried out on the back of the students." Ladies and gentlemen! It is unfortunate, but the deadline has become necessary because the further uncertainty policy of the Reds and Greens in the Federal Council has led us to create security at universities and therefore within a time limit mentioned in the application, that is to say until 19. In May, the new university law has to decide or negotiate in the next Science Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Yes, with these statements, Mr Kogler, you too must live because your group has been equally unstateful and unolid in the Federal Council and has contributed to the uncertainty. [[Abg. May. Kogler: With such State Secretarys, you must not take the word “state” into your mouth at all!]] Zickzack course doesn't bring us any further. That's it, deputies. They can join the deadline and try to make a good contribution in the Committee and then in the plenary session to ensure that there is rapid security at universities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17024	I would draw attention to the fact that the speakers who are now speaking are available for 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17048	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Not only that the university law was opposed, but also the postponement of the decision to set up the Institute of Science and Technology in Klosterneuburg is something surprising, not to say expression of a certain irritation. We've been here in the house for a long time. There were clear positions. At the time I was very pleased that the SPÖ had taken part in this decision, I really enjoyed the insight, especially of the Lower Austrian Members, and now I must be amazed to note that the zigzag course, which was previously so clearly recognizable, was started or continued. I would like to remind you already, and I am really proud to do so as a Lower Austrian MP: We have made the best offer in the course of this discussion. All the experts have confirmed this. We have not only considered the geographical situation well, but also done great financially. We have exchanged many arguments in the discussion and have finally come to this decision. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk about setting deadlines!]] Why you want to turn everything around now, as it were, or at least start the attempt to start the discussion of new things here is a mystery to me. That can – and I really want to say that – only have two reasons. Either Mr. Klub's chairman, Gusenbauer, cannot stand up to his federal councils or the National Council Group has failed to get through with its arguments at the Federal Council Group. Perhaps the subject simply has not been debated enough. I would assume that the discussion within the group was overburdened by other problems, which I would also understand. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Also outside!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! You can agree to this deadline request today, then everything can get back into the clean. I think that would be important, because this project simply deserves good and clear decision-making. It should not be changed in the Federal Council for Party Policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17097	Next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Niederwieser; another five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17119	Madam President. High house! Mr Brader, you have come to think of two reasons for what might have led to this opposition, and the third and actual reason has not come to your mind. This would not have occurred to me at first, I must admit, if not the persons of the Ministry in the Federal Council Committee had acted so badly that the Federal Councils were quite appalled at the ignorance and about the low information and then interrupted, because there is no decision on this state of information. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, go!]] – That was the real reason, and not what you, Mr Brader, suspected. Mrs Brinek, on the haste and uncertainty. – If we remember the pictures of the last autumn, what happened at the medical universities in Austria, this chaos that was there – are you talking about uncertainty?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Sure!]] Given what the Ministry of Education has produced here under the leadership of Minister Gehrer, are you asking for uncertainty?- Oh, my God! You haven't done anything for years, knowing that this decision might come – nothing done, not talking to anyone! – and then suddenly it got very fast. After the ECJ has decided, you have acted totally overhaste. Nobody – no one in the European Union, no one in the European Commission – would have forced us to make a regulation as early as last autumn. But no, this had to happen from today to tomorrow, before the summer, in the shortest time, and then the chaos. And now you're talking about uncertainty? That's really ridiculous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] You could have had it relatively easy, really easy that the Federal Council does not object. They should only have responded to the demands we have made here in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They're unrealistic!]] The claims were relatively simple. We agreed that there is a special situation in the field of medicine and that there is a need for restrictions here, but we do not understand why, in biology, in pharmacy, in psychology, in the business sector and in public health, restrictions still need to be maintained. We believe that this is counterproductive for two reasons. The first reason – I told you that already in committee, and you would have to listen a little bit, and not just talk all the time, then we might be easier –: There are good reasons for medicine which we can put forward to the European Commission in a further procedure, and that is what we must expect. But there are, according to what is now happening at the universities, where some of these admission restrictions have been waived at all, for psychology, biology and for other subjects, not this reason. That is to say, it is being provoked from the outset, so that the European Commission must act in this area. My guess is why you don't want to give up on these subjects: On the one hand, you want to get over this chaos just before the National Council elections, which is understandable, but on the other hand you also want to pass on the restrictions on access to the National Council elections so that you can have them as a trump card with whom you always want to negotiate to say: We have access restrictions! – And that is the price for abolishing the access restrictions. That's the real reason why you didn't give in here. Therefore, you must not be surprised that the Federal Council has repeated the position we represented in the National Council – it was exactly the same – also in its opposition. It is only understandable that the Federal Council also exercises its rights here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17185	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. 5 minutes' speaking time also for you, Mrs Deputies. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17206	Madam President. High house! I'm also starting with Gugging: I am already very excited about how the behaviour of SPÖ will be in the final effect in the Federal Council. Here in plenary, it was agreed that the Federal Council was adjourned. We are very excited about how the Federal Councils will behave in this regard, whether they will take exactly the same zigzag course as you did in the discussion about Gugging, where once, on the other hand, you were against it once. We are very excited to see if this will continue in the National Council – while in the Federal Council, or whether you will bring your Federal Council group to your side, whether they will join the overall group in their voting behaviour or not. As I said, it has been postponed, we are already very excited. To a certain extent, voting in the Federal Council is understandable. You too have voted against this, so the Federal Council is also voting against it. But you also know that by this delay, which is now taking place, universities can not get the regulation they need as quickly and as quickly as they would need, Mr Niederweiser. They are therefore delaying a necessary regulation, and I think that is unacceptable and reasonable to universities! As you once again I have to say to you once again: For medicine – and you know that as well as I do – there is therefore the possibility to take back this regulation because we can prove that homogeneity is disrupted in Austria. That is to say, it has been proved that, if so many foreign students continue to study medicine with us, we cannot ensure the medical care in Austria by Austrian doctors, who then stay in Austria and provide for us – we all need medical care so that we can maintain our health. It is therefore possible to withdraw this scheme. In the other subjects, you know that just as well as I do, it is not to be proved. The attack on psychology in Salzburg, which you predicted, has also not occurred. You must also take note of this. That is why we cannot withdraw this regulation, because it has not occurred. Please leave things where they are! It is possible for medicine, therefore also this new regulation, with the other subjects it was not possible. It was very good that we responded quickly and immediately after the EU Court of Justice's decision had been reached. The EU invited us to do so and it was necessary to make this arrangement. I do not want to know what you would have said if we had been left with this regulation for a year now. You would have said again that the government is sluggish, the government is not doing anything. Now we have acted quickly – throw now Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's have acted too quickly! So the way you do it, you do it wrong. The opposition and you can never make it right; it is therefore also clear. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is also very interesting that you are already thinking about the government negotiations after the election. So you really notice, you're already in the election campaign. You also do not want to work in terms of content, subject matter, but you are already considering a sugar product for the forthcoming government negotiations, a fee to exchange it for something else if I understand your words correctly. So you're thinking about government negotiations. I'll tell you: Hit First of all, consider what you are doing in connection with post chess and other fields, and consider how you are doing here before you are already thinking about government negotiations!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17260	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. For you, too, five minutes' speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17297	Madam President. High house! It is clear to me that, in some cases, in education policy, at least from the conservative side, censorships are still being distributed, but if I always hear that the opposition would not act stately, I ask you – and, please, give me an answer – how many state-manic and female speeches from the government side we were allowed to follow here. The answer will give me no reason to kneel or kneel before you. Who is “insecure” – a second evil keyword –? The government has known for years that if only a student from the EU complains against Austria, this EU court ruling will be negative for Austria. The Austrian position was not sustainable, the Ministry knew this with its decisive section head. How did Gehrer argue – and that is insecure –? She said she could act only if she had the judgment in writing, she did not work for the drawer. If someone shakes the head now, imagine you're charged, get a lawyer or lawyer and he or she says: I can only act when the judgment is given! Then you'll get on your head; it forbids me to do this, too. [[Abg. That's no comparison!]] That's a very fitting comparison. Who's insecure? – This was the Federal Government by insufficiently prepared for the judgment. The following is the second word: “Zigzagkurs”. You can't handle life in a kind of downhill run. Life is too complicated, it's also a slalom. Whoever thinks he can go down from the start to the finish in the shot, tears one of the so-called "Brezen" – and you have always played this for us. I'm gonna tell you something. We have already recognized the medical situation and have said that in this acid apple one will have to bite because of the shortage of time nothing else remains. But we do not agree because, according to the Ministry of Total Austria, in all the other five Numerus-clausus subjects that exist in Germany, no more than 350 places had been missed. This could have been paid and driven up, that would not have been a problem – even without dealing with rigid, overhated approval restrictions. They didn't want that! It is not only about the studying women and men, but also about their parents who have been insecured. Can they still, can they still, do they have to have loud ones now or do they have to be able to smile well? How are they supposed to dress? I say something to you, you come from pedagogy, Mrs Brinek! The psychologists, many psychologists, many educators say that the now practised admission procedures have a reliability between 30 and 70 percent, and, statistically speaking, are no better than the matura certificates. Which company, Mrs. Colleague, would you call good, who employs people with a probability of error and error of between 30 and 70 percent? This is not the end of wisdom. These were good people from medical psychology who looked at the test procedures. What parents would like to have an important decision of their children a few weeks before or after the matura, so before the start of the study, and would have such a lack of confidence? The parents don't have any pleasure with it. Thirdly, we're always talking like this: Where is Austria? World-class union? – We have compared in Austria with the EU too few students and not too many. Of course, we can say that we manage places of study, but we do not accept that funding is no longer being financed; as much as Austria needs. Education is not a value when you say: I'm not ready to pay for that. I would like to achieve at least a European cut in education standards, and to do so, you know, we would need 100 000 more students. In order to increase care conditions in international comparison, we would need 25 percent more university teachers. – This is the uncertainty that you do not take into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17337	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Molterer and Scheibner, the Scientific and Research Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the Bundesrat against the decision of the National Council concerning a Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 is a deadline until 19. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request for a time limit is therefore accepted. [[18:00:12]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17373	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda item 4. The next item is Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17399	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed the enlargement of the European Union several times here in the House, and today, as a negotiating object, we have ratified the accession agreements for Romania and Bulgaria. I do not want to repeat everything I have already said here, but I would just like to stress once again that we and my group will agree to this ratification, because, in this round of enlargement, we nevertheless recognise more advantages than disadvantages for Austria, in addition to the disadvantages and problems that will arise with regard to the integration of Romania and Bulgaria as a full member of the European Union. Austria is the largest investor in the economy in both countries. That is why it will be absolutely an advantage for us, especially for our economy, if these two countries are now also integrated into the European Union as full members. It is also of benefit to us in the field of security policy. We know that Austria is facing many of its security problems, crime problems, which are also caused by criminal tourists from these two countries, as a border country of Schengen. That is why we have an interest in working more intensively with these two new Member States of the European Union than before in dealing with these problems. It is also of interest for us to renew and improve the safety standards, the judicial standards and also the standards against corruption. The accession procedure is also of great importance in this regard. However, it is also clear – and this decision is still to be seen – that both countries must meet the criteria and the requirements that have been issued, otherwise – and we assume that there will be objective criteria – accession will have to be postponed by one year. We could have been very pleased with the fact that ratification was only made after the Commission's decision. However, we still do not know exactly when this decision is taken by the Commission. Furthermore, it is not about accession itself, because it has already been decided, but only about the date of accession. We know that there will be national elections in Austria in autumn and that it is not at all certain that this Commission decision will be adopted here in plenary before the summer. It could be in July, too. That is why it makes sense to do it now, without great campaign excitement and discussion. And it will be decided by a large majority. – The EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria. On the other hand, it must also be made clear that the criteria for EU enlargement have not yet been met by the European Union, for example the European Constitution. This would have been the prerequisite for the first major round of enlargement by another ten members. This enlargement has been implemented without the EU having fulfilled the conditions, such as the European Constitution or the reorganisation of EU structures. I hope – the Austrian Presidency has also set itself the goal – that efforts will be made to at least discuss ideas as to how the European Union is still coming to these new structures, to the new ways of dealing with them and how the European Union's capacity to accept them will be discussed. This will be of great importance for the future. On the one hand, further enlargements are being discussed, for example, in Croatia – we support it; on the other hand, the criteria on both sides have to be met – and on the other hand, it is about regaining lost confidence in the population, in the sense that one does not set criteria in order to ignore them at once, but that one has to put up the measuring bar in this area and implement it accordingly. However, I would also like to say here that EU enlargement has its limits, that, for example, in countries that are geographically part of Europe, but in which it is foreseeable that they will never be able to reach the value system of the European Union in the next 15, 20, 30 years, from their world view – I am referring to Turkey – it must honestly say: Negotiations for full membership are the wrong way, because that takes 15, 20 years and perhaps does not lead to a conclusion at all. It would be more honest to say that we are trying to create other cooperation opportunities with these countries. I have once proposed a kind of partnership for Europe where we are looking for customized cooperation at bilateral level for these countries. There are other countries in Europe – for example Ukraine or sometime later perhaps Belarus, then, even if democracy is breaking through there – where it is known that due to the size and structures, it will also take a very, very many years, if ever, until these countries can become a member. Perhaps these countries do not want to, but they are important countries in our environment with which the European Union should also maintain close contacts. But contractual negotiations on full membership would also be the wrong way there. So, in this respect, the courage to be honest in the European Union would also be called for to put aside problems now, unwisely, to say: Now we are beginning to negotiate once!, although one knows that one will only come to a conclusion sometime in 20 years – at a time when politicians or decision-makers who make this decision today will certainly no longer be responsible for the consequences of this decision. It would be more honest to say: No, we're not going to do that, we're trying to do other faster cooperations! – This question will accompany us for some more time. We agree with the EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria because it benefits both the Union and Austria. But the criteria will also be reviewed and complied with in these two countries, including before they become members. We have had many contacts with these two countries at the parliamentary level and will still have them in the future. We see there the effort to get involved in the European family. Yes, I have to say: I even see a much greater effort in these two countries than in some countries that participated in the last round of enlargement, where we unfortunately had to miss this willingness.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17470	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17493	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we are going to ratify this Treaty here in the National Council today. I was particularly pleased with the announcement made by Mr Scheibner, who said that his whole group would agree to this ratification agreement. I hope that will be the case. We will see that at the end of this debate. Mr Scheibner, I hope that your word will apply to the whole group and not just some of it. From our side, from the Greens, it was always clear that we are in favour of the accession efforts of Romania and Bulgaria – well aware of the difficulties that exist, but always aware that these two states are an integral part of Europe and that there is no way to integrate them, and that it is also clear that there must continue to be great support from the European Union, as in the past, so that these states can join the EU so that they can fulfil the acquis communautaire so that they can actually take further steps in the right direction. Recently, a Bulgarian journalist asked me – probably this happens to many of you of the more often – that in Austria, one of the countries that benefited most economically, from the opening of the East and from the last round of EU enlargement and also from the opening of Bulgaria and Romania, the mood against these EU accessions is so seriously negative. As likely many of you try to give answers again and again that try to explain that. A response attempt is the one to say: Well, unfortunately, it is not always the case that the profits made by the companies are distributed in such a way that the employees or people who just don't have a job realize that they too benefit, and if we have rising unemployment numbers at the same time, then people don't see what this brings them! - That's probably a reason. Another reason is that in recent years there has still been too little actual exchange and attempts to learn and understand. On a parliamentary level, there have been many trips, visits et cetera, partly also in the field of universities, but too little, for example in the field of schools. There is, I think, still too little in actual effort to learn how people live there, what problems they have and what difficulties these transformation processes bring with them. It's not that easy to switch from one system to another within 15 years, which is a system that you've learned in your head, so to speak. It is clear that there are difficulties that friction losses, or whatever you want to call them, occur. In particular, Romania and Bulgaria – like the other ten countries that have already joined the last major round of enlargement – show very strong efforts in many areas, and these efforts, I think, are recognised by the prospect that they will join, regardless of whether it is the 1. ==References====External links== ==References== July 2007, which has already been talked about, that is, I find, only a detail on the edge. I wish it was the 1st. January 2007 will be, but we will see what the Commission report says and what the Commission will recommend to the Council. On this issue, on what the Commission will recommend to the Council, we will hopefully discuss this report in detail, as agreed, in an EU sub-committee or in the main committee, even before the relevant Council takes place, and not just 10 minutes between door and fishing. This should be addressed to you all and also to the Minister, namely that there should be enough time to discuss this in the National Council. In addition to the praise for the achievement and effort of the two states that are now involved, I also, like many others, do not want to hide where there are problems. As with the other states, also those of the Western Balkans, as well as Turkey, I am concerned about the following: The process is important – the process in which the transformation takes place and where we build on the fact that the goal, namely a real rule of law, an end to corruption et cetera, is actually achieved. There are still difficulties both in Romania and Bulgaria, for example in the area of legal certainty or in the fight against corruption. But I have also found a very positive example regarding Bulgaria. There recently, at the beginning of April, the Advocate General in Sofia announced that he wanted to remove the immunity of those delegates who are accused of illegal enrichments, smuggling, sexual abuse of minors and official abuse. He said that this is actually happening. The “great fish ” are not left unlit, it is not that nothing happens to them, while corruption in small ones is very well persecuted. Especially in the area of anti-corruption, it is important to make it clear that this is also true at the very top – if you want to see these systems in this way, with a top and a bottom. It is therefore made clear that corruption has not lost anything in Parliament, and that these people are also being brought to justice. These are very important steps, which, in addition to the individual persons, also have a symbol character for the whole society: that it is clear that no one gets away, even the so-called grand coppers. These are, as I have said, very important steps. In the area of Roma minority, both states really have a lot to do. But it is also so in other countries already members of the European Union that there is not everything rosy yet. I very much hope that the plan of the “Year of Social Integration of Roma from 2005 to 2015” will actually make progress, for example in the area of housing improvement. It would be important for strategic approaches to what this social inclusion might look like, and not just individual activities. The area of trafficking in human beings is one that affects Europe as a whole: those countries that are transit countries, those countries that are countries of origin, and those countries which are so-called recipient countries. In particular, women and girls are being used massively, on truly slave-like conditions; this has been the subject of today's debate. It makes sense, for example, to have good witness protection measures. In Austria too, we are not yet quite so far as to protect the victims comprehensively that they not only have legal residence in the country until the process, but also the opportunity to take up employment here. These are things where all EU countries need to set a good example. For example, it would be useful: Cooperation with the tourism sector, code of conduct against child trafficking, manual for authorities in dealing with sexually exploited children. There are good approaches in these two countries, hopefully also in Further progress will be made in the future. The European Union must continue to have a monitoring role after accession, where: If these criteria are met, are these values actually? This, I think, is not only necessary for the new states, but we must wish for this for the whole EU, because when it comes to the much-proclaimed European values, we must say: It was the Berlusconi government that was bowing down the rule of law, as the luckily elected head of ex-Government of Italy has always done, and not what we imagine under the 'obedience of European values'. Here are positive examples necessary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I repeat once again how important these accession processes are, the years of the transformation process, where the goal of accession is motivation for people in the countries themselves, too. It is not easy to participate in these processes, to know that it costs them safety, which they used to have in part, that they do not necessarily have some possibilities from earlier now. These processes are important, and this applies not only to Romania and Bulgaria, but also to Turkey in the eyes of the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17581	Mrs Plassnik has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17603	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! They are now about a step towards reunification in Europe, as this is ultimately the subject of the EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria. The unification of Europe was and is one of the great strategic objectives of our foreign policy. For a long time, we are located directly on a rift across the continent, and we have seen the disadvantages of Europe's separation and we ourselves have experienced close to it. ==References== April, the government declaration of 1945. Already there we find this constant in Austrian foreign policy. I quote: “Austria wants to live in unmistakable friendship with the peoples of the Danube region and work together with all its neighbours in peace and friendship for the best of all.” – Quotes. Romania and Bulgaria are part of this Danube region. Of these, a wide range of links lead to Austria, to Vienna – human, cultural, political, economic. We can only fully benefit from this potential if we permanently overcome the old lines of break if we extend and secure the European stability zone into the Danube region. This is the objective of EU enlargement by these two countries. High house! The EU accession of Bulgaria and Romania brings Austrians more security, more export opportunities and more jobs. You know the success stories of Austrian companies in both countries: In fact, a number of companies were only able to ensure their European positioning and thus long-term Austrian jobs through engagements in South-East Europe. The development of trade relations shows this tremendous dynamic and also the potential we have to deal with. A look at the last 10 years shows the following picture: In 1995, the external trade volume with Romania did not reach even €300 million, with Bulgaria only about €150 million. In 2005, values for Romania amounted to over €2 billion, for Bulgaria to almost €700 million. Our Austrian companies have already generated an export surplus of over €900 million in 2005. In comparison, Austria's share of EU expenditure for the first three years of Bulgaria and Romania's membership is almost €200 million. – So far to the cost of EU enlargement. High house! However, the benefits are by far not limited to the economic sector alone. Police and judicial cooperation both bilaterally and in the European context, for example via EUROPOL, would never have been as intense and cooperative without any prospects for accession. More cooperation means more security for everyone. As the Commission noted in its interim report to the European Parliament at the beginning of April this year, Romania has made significant progress in this area: in judicial reform, in the fight against corruption. In the end, we also benefit from this. Nor would there have been a very difficult approach to the EU's environmental standards without the prospect of accession, nor would the complete decommissioning of blocks 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian nuclear power plant Kosloduj. On the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I would like to mention this fact – because it is reactors of the Chernobyl-model – in particular. Another issue that has always touched the Austrian public very much is the fate of children in Romania, especially those of street children. At this point I would like to thank the many Austrians who have worked for these children. Her bet was worth it. Much remains to be done – and it has been pointed out – but the international assistance and determination of the Romanian government have led to the fact that the situation of children today is much better than it was a few years ago. This was explicitly confirmed by the Commission in its interim report to the European Parliament. The advantages and opportunities are thus obvious. We didn't make it easy anyway. Bulgaria and Romania have started towards the European Union at the same time as our Central and Eastern European neighbours. To remember: In December 1997, in Luxembourg, the Heads of State and Government decided – I quote – to "start a process of accession which includes the ten candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus". – End of quote. The path of Romania and Bulgaria has lasted longer because we, the Union, have rightly insisted on strict compliance with the accession requirements. We have rightly called for more EU maturity and fitness. Romania and Bulgaria are, therefore, part of the fifth round of historical enlargement, which is by no means a new, almost unsuspecting enlargement shift. The accession of both countries was and is the subject of intensive reviews. As an additional guarantee – for the first time in the case of an EU enlargement – it was possible that the date of accession should be postponed by one year. The Commission will be able to do so on 16 June. A report was presented in May 2006, in which, if it considers it necessary, it recommends such a shift. Then the Council, still under the Austrian Presidency, would have to decide. Even after that date, the precise monitoring of the preparation for accession, the so-called monitoring, will continue. This has been announced by the Commission, and we will also value it together with our partners. Even after EU accession, there will be safeguard clauses, as we already know them from enlargement 2004. In the areas of economic, internal market, justice and home affairs, protective measures may be imposed if Bulgaria or Romania do not fulfil their obligations or otherwise cause serious shortcomings. High house! We have therefore – I think you can say that so – acted cautiously and responsibly. We have made sure that the EU accession of Romania and Bulgaria is best prepared, and we want to use this opportunity to reunite Europe. 14 Member States of the European Union have already approved the Treaty of Accession. If you agree, Austria will be the 15. be a country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17701	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17722	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! With Bulgaria and Romania, two countries come home to Europe. It will overcome the impotent separation of Europe after the Second World War. For a long time, over 40 years, the states occupied by the Soviet troops were unable to participate in economic development. It was not until 1989, that is, with the end of real socialism, that a better development of human rights and democracy as well as economic development began there. The economic upturn was still waiting at the beginning because it even took some time for the economic power to be regained in 1989. But now we have a very strong growth there, not least thanks to the investment from Austria. According to the historical dimension, both countries belong to Europe. I would like to point this out in the example of Romania. The Grand Duchy of Transylvania and the southern part of the Duchy of Bukowina belonged to Austria-Hungary until the autumn of 1918; if I add that in the first half of the 18th century. When Austria liberated the northern part of the Balkans from the Turkish troops, even the small Walachei belonged to Austria, it was so that the larger part of the current Romania sometimes belonged to the Habsburg monarchy. As the Federal Minister has already said, at the end of the nineties negotiations began with a total of twelve countries on EU accession. With five states negotiations were moving rapidly, one year later five other states had been opened. ==References====External links== 10 states joined in May 2004. The whole time was also negotiated with Bulgaria and Romania. Even if it progressed slowly, it can now be said with some caution that both countries have actually reached the EU's maturity. We are now also always discussing the European Union's capacity to accept it, which is secure for these two countries. First of all, there is no problem from the scale: Bulgaria has about as many inhabitants as Austria, Romania has three times as many inhabitants as Austria, so this is to be done from the order of magnitude. In the Treaty of Nice, the functioning of the institutions of the European Union has already been aligned with 27 states. The number of Members of the European Parliament has also been set for these 27 countries. As we have heard, 16 States have already decided to ratify it, and Bulgaria and Romania have also already implemented the ratification. It seems very important to me that, as we hold the EU Presidency, we also place this sign here and welcome these two states within the EU. On this occasion, however, I do not wish to miss out on the fact that from our point of view and from my personal point of view, the Western Balkans belongs to Europe. The countries from Croatia in the north to Macedonia in the south, between Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Albania, are certainly part of Europe. There is certainly no problem from the size, because all these countries together have about as many inhabitants as Romania. The problem lies in the functioning of the EU institutions, which would have to be adapted accordingly. Nevertheless, I think we must say: The objective for these states must be to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17778	The next item is the speech by Mr Arbitrator. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17799	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My group agrees with the two accession agreements. We are pleased to see Bulgaria and Romania coming to the European Union, and we believe that this will show – including ratification at this time – that our interest in the countries is not just an economic one, but a human, political and a social one. We have seen how Parliaments have been committed to progress in these countries, and we should also send our greetings to the parliaments of both countries on this occasion. The role of parliamentarians from both countries has been a truly impressive one on the European scale in recent years. [[General condolences.]] In this context, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke of a "reunification of Europe" and my previous speaker about a "return to Europe". – A little bit I have the feeling that something doesn't fit together, namely: At 11.30 a.m., we said in the debate on the Council of Europe that all these countries have really been in Europe since they joined the Council of Europe, and that is the whole Europe – at 11.30 a.m. – but now, at 6.30 p.m., the stand is being used again, that it is only now Europe. I think we should get to the point of reading that the way into the European institutions for these countries began more than a decade and a half ago, that the first really great test of accession to the Council of Europe was and that now, through accession to the EU, the great integration step in this Europe is also taking place economically. Both are important, but the first, namely membership and work in the Council of Europe, the reforms necessary to join it, has helped to ensure that the way into the Union has not been so long. As far as the date of accession to the EU is concerned, I do not know what it will be like: 2007 or 2008. The signs are increasing that it will be called 2007 and that a monitoring or further requirements will come. I would like to say that the experience in the Council of Europe with monitoring where technical matters are concerned is very good, which is easier to fulfil inside than outside. What we are talking about is large pieces of content, where the pressure of accession is certainly better if the country is not yet inside. We hope that it will be very rapid for both countries. Surely it must also be our interest to establish a fair, legally verifiable procedure here, and not any new institution, which then constitutes a European arbitrarily towards the two countries. It must also be feasible and verifiable by it, and its participation must be ensured if it comes to any procedure. We must also be aware that, when it comes to creating a new instrument, which will continue to be valid in the future. So you should take a close look at what is actually being taken into consideration. I would like to see progress made in both countries so quickly that accession with 1. January 2007 is possible without a new, large, complex procedure. Both countries have complained that criteria are now being applied which are more stringent and tougher than those of other EU acceding countries. It is also my impression that it is in the Union. I think the conclusion of this should, however, be as follows: Firstly, it is good if the criteria are tighter, but secondly, this should not only apply to the respective new candidate countries, but it must also become a scale to be met by the existing members in the future. If we are more strict, then we must be stricter to all and to ourselves as well. One last point I would like to mention: I also believe that it is true that these are still accessions from the other round. At the same time, of course, it is already the beginning of the Western Balkans question, the Western Balkans accession itself. Therefore, we must ensure that no “hole” is created in the Balkans between those who have few opportunities, those who are inside and those who are coming in. I therefore also believe that we must put in place so many compensatory measures, so much help for all in this area that the whole region is beneficial and that no new tensions arise. This is not only in the interests of the Western Balkans, but also in the interests of our country and the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17860	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17882	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The chronology of these accession efforts, the accession of the two countries Bulgaria and Romania, is known: The conclusion of the negotiations was in December 2004, and accession is, as we know, for the first time. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== We do not yet know when the monitoring report will be available, but it should be assumed that since much of the chapters could be completed by now, the path is a good one and accession is foreseeable. The development of the two countries in the economic field, as I believe, is a very, very positive one after initial difficulties. Austria has a special role to play in economic relations. For example, in terms of trade and investment, I would like to draw attention to the economic relationship between Bulgaria and Austria that in 2003 imports from Bulgaria increased by 32 percent, by 31 percent in 2004 and exports to Bulgaria increased by 11 percent in 2003, and by 32 percent in 2004. Austrian companies are the top investors in Bulgaria, and others want to enter Bulgaria, as we know. By the way, the largest company in Bulgaria is an Austrian company, namely the mobile operator MTel. It is therefore understandable that Austria is taking place in terms of this investment, which is about 17 percent of the total investment volume of companies of all possible countries. We know – and do not want to hide this – that there are areas of problem, but we are fully convinced that this accession will bring about an accelerated improvement in certain situations in the area of security, but also in the field of the economy. There are health problems, including economic and judicial corruption. Romania is also experiencing very positive economic developments. Investments, the investment boom in Romania is up to 64 percent, the unemployment rate could be reduced. Wages rise, even if not to the extent that it would be desirable, because the inflation rate is reduced but still correspondingly high. Ladies and gentlemen, the efforts of these two countries are recognizable and can be proved by this monitoring, by facts and figures. Our group will vote in favour of ratification despite existing problems. It remains to be said that Austria will benefit from this accession, and it will also be for the whole of the European Union and for these two candidate countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17927	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e17948	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, we naturally welcome the accession or today's ratification of the Accession Treaty with Bulgaria and Romania. We also expect that in 2007 we will be able to achieve this accession. As Mr Lunacek has said, this is a very central signal for the whole region. Finally – and this has already been related to several of my previous speakers – it is an important step towards the integration of the Western Balkans and a peaceful economic and social development in this area. Mrs Bundesminister, you have mentioned that there is a strategy of the Danube region. I think it's important that this is also thought in partnership. This is not an Austrian strategy for the Danube region – I at least assume – but a common strategy of the countries, the partners in this region. This is particularly important in terms of economic development. One point you have highlighted was that export surpluses with Romania and Bulgaria have already been achieved last year. This is certainly a gratifying aspect of increased economic exchange. But the special feature of these countries, which will continue to be taken into account, and we should not forget that, is their very high agricultural quota. According to Poland, Bulgaria and Romania are certainly the two candidate countries with the highest agricultural rate in the European Union. This will require special measures for rural development. From our point of view, projects need to be started, and we do well to use the economic links and networking for these projects that benefit farmers there. I would like to address a very specific area which has been discussed intensively and violently in Austria and at European level in recent months, which is the question of non-genotechnic feed plants. Romania is one of the few European countries currently producing genetic engineering. It would be very desirable, Mrs Foreign Minister, to make it clear that it would be very, very helpful for the further economic link in the agricultural sector if one were to put more emphasis on non-genotechnic feed. It is a great chance that in future Austrian agriculture will no longer be able to produce its soy products via Rotterdam, i.e. international, but from the Danube region, for example from Romania and Bulgaria. This would, for example, be a very concrete project. Another focus, which seems to me to be very central, is the area of extensive agriculture and organic production. I had a visit to the Romanian organic association in our region, and that was a very nice and interesting, good exchange of information. Ladies and gentlemen still need a lot of support in this area, both at the state and at the civil society level. They have addressed human and cultural exchange. I think that the image of these countries in the Austrian population is partly still prejudicial. Therefore, in the next few years we would certainly want measures to be taken to intensify cultural exchange. I would also like to address some of the problems, particularly with regard to the activation of the so-called safeguard clauses by the Commissioner for Enlargement Olli Rehn, in two aspects. This is the area of hygiene and animal health standards. I think it is in the interest of both sides to be very careful here and to support Romania and Bulgaria to really comply with and implement these standards. The question of energy supply was also addressed. The closure of Kozloduj blocks 3 and 4 in 2006 is certainly a very central step and would not have been possible without the accession negotiations and the process associated with it. This shows that it makes sense and serves to get to know each other with standards and to develop security standards, which we very much welcome. I would also like to say that it would also be an opportunity to force renewable energy sources in these regions, a key word for renewable fuels, because new projects in Austria are also being launched in this area. I think, for example, of the organic diesel plant currently under construction in the port of Enns, because we are currently not producing sufficient quantities of rape in Austria and will not produce it in the long term. Here again, there is a possible project with these new candidate countries. In this sense: A right path, a common goal. We wish the candidate countries all the best at their start!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18009	Mr Lopatka came next. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18030	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is beneficial if, on such an important issue, there is such a sense of national consensus and that the situation is very similar to that of all four political groups and there is a fundamental agreement that this decision, which we are making today, is not only in the interests of Austria but also in the interests of the whole of the European Union, and therefore, of course, a major concern of the two countries. Many of us have contacts with these countries. Whoever has further past contacts will take this decision with all the greater inner satisfaction today. I can still remember when I was on my way to Ceaussescus in the Banata mountain country in Romania. And I was there also in the December days when the end of this regime had come. This route from 1989 to now was certainly the greater part of the road that was needed to get Bulgaria and Romania back, as has already been said, to Europe. Actually, they were always in Europe. It is interesting to go further back to history, which has also been determined by Austria in this part of Europe. If you go back to the Roman era and look at traces both in Romania and in Bulgaria, the architectural monuments of that time, you become so well aware that it is actually a matter of course that Romania and Bulgaria belong to this European Union, and that we have so many things in common in cultural, social and also political terms. And, of course, economic interests which have already been addressed are not to be put aside. I am firmly convinced that what we are doing here today in this decision-making process with ratification is a contribution to saying quite clearly: If the criteria are met, then Romania and Bulgaria should, of course, be part of this European Union. When will it be that far? – There are already very clearly regulated procedures for Hiefor, and enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn took a close look at the European Parliament’s Foreign Policy Committee just a few days ago, with a clear focus on the positive. The decision today is certainly not a prejudice to the time of accession, but a clear proof of trust to the governments of these two states and a sign that we believe that accession is the right step. I would like to mention one more point. I think it is very important that the weakest in these two countries are also taken very seriously by the poor. I mean the children, I mean also the sick and the disabled. If you know in what condition there were children's and disabled people's facilities, especially in this In 1989 and before, and where you are now, there has been a great deal of action. But there is still a great need to catch up. This also addresses minorities like the Roma. All in all, this enlargement is of course necessary. There are not only storm and flood disasters with us. If we look towards Bulgaria and, above all, Romania, it is important to know, as Europeans, that you live in a large solidarity community. And so I see this European Union. The bigger she gets, the stronger she gets.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18075	The next item is Mr Dr. A. Klepsch. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18097	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the statements on Romania and Bulgaria are concerned, I can fully relate to my Group speakers, Peter Schieder, and therefore I do not want to double this. I mean, it's right that we do the ratification today, and we agree. However, I think that this is certainly an opportunity to recall that years ago, the Federal Government, as an opposition party, made an offer in view of the great round of enlargement that was still to come at that time, which ultimately took place on 1 January. ==References====External links== The European project was also important to us Social Democrats at the time. We are therefore well aware of the need to contribute to enlargement. At the time, however, we had already worked before enlargement and before the ratification of the Treaty of Accession for the ten Member States, which took place on 1 January 1989. In May 2004, Austria and Germany, as the closest neighbours to the enlargement countries, have certainly been among the biggest winners, economic winners of enlargement, and have already counted the EU's approach process. We have said and estimated that the benefits that have been achieved are not equally distributed. At the same time, we have pointed out that enlargement would also result in disadvantages, especially for poorly qualified workers in Austria, because they are the ones that are most and most often under pressure. Firstly, their work in establishments is most easily relocated, and secondly, they are also substitutable by workers expected to be frontier commuters from neighbouring countries after enlargement. In March 2001, we therefore adopted a pact for work and Europe within the SPÖ and presented it as a demand package to the Federal Government in which we proposed what preparatory measures should be taken by Austria in order to make enlargement a measure to which the citizens of Austria can also say. What was important to us and is still important today is that enlargement takes place in a way that not a few earn a golden nose and a few others, but a few tens of thousands of others may lose their job, that measures of compensation take place, which contribute to the fair distribution of benefits and that the disadvantages are avoided as far as possible. I think that in the previous years in this field In fact, too little has happened. That is why I took the opportunity today to point this out again. Mrs Bundesminister, Mr State Secretary, you are both not primarily responsible and exclusively responsible, you are only the two government representatives who are sitting here on the government bank today. We considered it necessary at the time, and this was our first request to propose a qualification offensive for the poorer skilled workers in Austria, and to make it very specific to what measures we consider necessary and appropriate. Why do I still value it today, why do we believe that there is still more to it than has been done before? If we look at the numbers of unemployed, especially in the area of poor skilled workers, i.e. those who do not have a degree in school or simply have a compulsory degree, we have had 92 000 unemployed in 2001 on average in this area. In 2005, we had an average annual unemployment rate of 116 000 people. This is an increase of more than a quarter! We know that these figures continued to rise in 2006 and that they have increased in particular in the area where commuters can easily get to jobs in Austria. Mrs Federal Minister, Mr State Secretary, I urge you, as a representative of the Federal Government, at least now, to take effective measures to ensure that there is not only winners on the one hand and losers on the other, but that there is a fair balance with the winners who will help to ensure that those who are under pressure are given a chance. And this is primarily a chance through better training! The demand and problem remains at present, even after the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, of which we also believe it is appropriate. ==References====External links== January 2007, as things look now, and we are doing everything we can to help the two countries to cope with their accession as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18164	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18185	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Politics is not a question of sympathy, but a question of interests. If it were after the sympathy, it would be quite clear, especially for us Austrians: Of course, Romania is, Bulgaria is a member of the European people's family, still members who have been in direct contact with Austria in the course of history and with whom we always have a good outcome, a good relationship. However, this alone does not mean that EU accession is essential. Only by the way: Of course, Norway and Switzerland are members of the European people's family, and of course we are in a variety of and best relations with these two countries. But now away from the sympathys to the realities, because nothing is more negligent in politics than being guided by the emotion of sympathy rather than by the rationality, of interests that are saying that decisions after consideration all consequences of facts must be borne and taken from facts. The Brussels Council in 2004 has already declared the accession negotiations successful, completed and completed. ==References====External links== January 2007, as we have heard many times, or a year later. Whether this shift clause will be applied now – on 16 May. May, we have just heard – decide. I wonder, as I have already asked myself in the first part of this ratification: Why the hurry? Let us wait for the Commission's report. That would be a way of making the decision more reasoned. I see things as you do, Mr Arbitrator, but I conclude by saying: You have the right, if there are serious shortcomings, of course, to expect the hope of achieving better action by resolving these shortcomings. If there are only slight defects, a monitoring may be sufficient. However, you also say that you hope that this will not happen, because it would be a humiliating measure – I would say so – and so I see it. I wouldn't do that! I would also really ask the peoples to have a certain level reached, and then there is accession. I would not let the accession take place and say at the same time that I am creating a second-class member. I don't think that the relationship of the peoples is good for each other. What is it like in Bulgaria and Romania? Everyone knows – and perhaps the Commission will explain this – that the standards in justice and administration are not those we want and want in Europe in general. Corruption is going on and there, and of course a monitoring doesn't use much, because what do we do if it doesn't improve? And that something is happening here, we are definitely guilty of the citizens. One question is to what extent the economies are already prepared for it. We know that in the next three years alone, a sum of €200 million will be due in the next three years to allow the economies to cope with accession at all. That's the one side. The second side of the balance of interest is the question of the European Union's capacity to accept. After every vote against your policy, which you get from the citizens, after every vote you don't win, it says in Sunday's speeches: So, now we're really making a point, now we're thinking about that, now we're making a stop, all this has to be digested! – But that is only spoken, something else is done. This is a skillful method and tactics, one to say and the other to do. This makes you well used here. In fact, the strategy means to continue, to put facts, to avoid voting when it goes easily. And that's how you move forward. I wonder that some wonder why the population does not approve of this. If we are talking about a national consensus here, you are confusing something, regrettably, one has to say now. They confuse the consensus of your four parties with a national consensus, but it is far from taking place. It was also true that it was said that this would not only be the end of the first round of enlargement, but also the start of the next one. I believe that it is not possible to use peace, freedom and prosperity, with enlargement and with the expansion of the EU, for if it's going wrong and you're wrong – it doesn't always have to succeed, just because it's been successful so far! – and the peoples do not go along with it, the economic difficulties are greater than expected, and it is still not clear how to treat it constitutionally and who pays it, then you can have played out precisely that – peace, freedom and prosperity – through your enlargements. I believe that this ratification is too early, and I believe that the political class in Europe should be ready to make the necessary price corrections. My colleague, Mr Bösch, and I am not going to ratify him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18270	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Maier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18291	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is true that neither the speaker nor the previous speaker can be selected. It should be remembered, however, that today is a very historic day, when we debate another step in enlargement. If one projected back the thought of the previous speaker, there would probably never have been an extension. I would like to have it used, too, because it is too bad to lose words about it at all. I would just like to remind you of the years 1988 and 1989 that we all have in mind. At the time, there were also concerns about the issue of enlargement. I remember a certain Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Vranitzky just a few days before the Iron Curtain fell, taking the way towards Poland and meeting Jaruzelski when one already knew that there was going to be a change. The former – God has blessed him – ÖGB President Benya has meant that Lech Walesa and his solidarnosc have nothing to do with the hat, and the change has also been recognized. I'm just saying that. It is in itself a historic day, and we should all be glad that there is a next step. Mr Schieder, an expert in foreign policy, will probably now also recognize the criticism of his ancestors. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! They're exploring the change!]] – I think it’s a historic day, and we can be glad that it comes to this step. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You explore what then contributed to the change!]] I would like to remind you of the following: If everyone thinks that this is a smart day, I would like to remind you: We stand here once again, and I am the twelfth speaker of a business piece where a two-thirds majority is required. What has the Madam President, as a member of the Bureau, done in recent times on the following issue: The President has announced that we will do something so that we can make speeches about what we are concerned about, especially in the case of business documents that are generally approved, by protocol, and all interested parties can read it. I'd be interested because I'm sorry. We have to stand here again, one 3 minutes, the other 4 minutes or 5 minutes, and we tell each other stories about what we're all convinced of. If I want to travel you, as I just did, Mr Schieder, then you can discuss a little bit, but that doesn't do anything. What happened in the Bureau? Which chief editors of these strange newspapers and magazines were spoken to? And what has happened to the fact that it is possible to add to the protocol, in a protocol and from the Rules of Procedure, the contributions to operations that guarantee more than a two-thirds majority in any case, without standing here and adjuring each other with anything else?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18354	Mr President, I would recommend that you look at the former President-in-Office of the Council. There you can read what happened in the meantime. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: (the speaker's desk leaving) Maybe you can inform us?- Oh, my God!]] – The Presidential Protocol goes to you all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There I can even give up on his important contribution!]] Mrs Hlavac's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18404	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After this rather strange report on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council - as I said - we can also read in the Presidential Protocol what has happened on this matter - I would like to return to an objective debate on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU. I welcome the proposal we are considering today. I welcome the accession of these two countries, even though I am aware that there are still a number of problems there, and even though I am aware that the economic benefits of accession are not the same for all Austrians. I think I'm a colleague. This has made it very clear to one another. I am proud of it and I am pleased that Austrian businesses are doing very good business in Central and Eastern Europe. But we must also be aware that not all people benefit in the same way. On the problems Romania and Bulgaria themselves have: I remember that just a year ago, Bulgarian colleagues criticised that they were being treated together with Romania, so to speak, this is a package because they felt that they have made much greater progress. – That was the case at the time. Bulgaria continued at the time. But it is now apparent that the situation has reversed. It is no coincidence that Commissioner Rehn questioned Bulgaria's accession for 2007 and put the rod in the window. The problem of Bulgaria is the state of the judicial system. It was important that Bulgaria has now taken steps through the constitutional changes that allow for a reform of the judicial system that will enable it to come to a genuine rule of law. The spectacular murders in the area of organized crime point to internal struggles, to distribution struggles, also to uncertainty within the OK. It is important to give justice resources to combat this organised crime. The fight against corruption is also linked to this. Romania has recently taken an impressive approach to the fight against corruption and the issue of the link between parts of politics and the OK and is therefore praised accordingly. However, few observers are irritated by the wealth of power that the President has accumulated in the meantime. I believe that the reform of justice is a key element in the reforms. It is important for legal certainty – not only for the economy, but also for the people living in these countries, who work and travel. The rule of law is rightly one of the cornerstones of the European Union. However, I would also like to say that not only Romania and Bulgaria must meet the requirements, but – and I have to say this critically – the European Union itself has not done its homework. The institutional reform has not yet been successful, there are no relevant provisions. The Constitution has not been decided, there is now a phase of rethinking. This is a serious problem, because enlargements are constantly taking place without the necessary structures ensuring that the EU can act effectively, efficiently and democratically. It is unfortunate that this has not happened so far. There are other countries as candidates, especially the countries of the Western Balkans, which belong to Europe as well as the two countries which are now being taken up, and therefore there is an urgent need for action in the EU itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18472	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18493	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister – wherever she is! I would like to take a very brief look at a personal experience, namely the visit of the former Minister of Defence of Bulgaria, Mr Svinarov, who, in a longer discussion with me, discussed the problems that exist in Bulgaria. This discussion took place about two months ago, and it was very clear that Bulgaria's need for attention in many areas, particularly in the areas of justice, is very high. He assured me that it was with decision-making of the 1. However, in May 2006, changes to the judicial system will be made, but it has also noted that the division of powers, as we know it in the European Union, has not yet been implemented, and that it is not certain that the necessary constitutional majority needed to become Europe-wide are also given. He also noted – and I was somewhat concerned about this – that most of the population – he himself counted 60 to 70 percent – is still very critical of the European Union. What moved me to this brief trip to this personal conversation was that the former Minister of Defence was then also with the colleague Ewald Stadler. Ewald Stadler had the same conversation with him, and as a great thinker of the Freedom Party, let himself be seen with him in the ‘NFZ’ and note there that the position of the FPÖ as far as Bulgaria is concerned is clear: In principle, FPÖ welcomes Bulgaria's accession. Today's ratification is not about setting a date, but about the basics. – Stadler is for it, others are against it – everyone should make his opinion. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He may have said that as a popular lawyer!]] But it is a sad statement by the Commissioner for Enlargement – to be read in an APA report today at 4:44 p.m. – that there is a serious need for resurgence in the fight against organised crime, as far as Bulgaria is concerned, and that he cannot imagine that a recommendation will be made to include Bulgaria as early as 2007. – The Commissioner for Enlargement is thus opposed to the enthusiasm which has recently spread here as regards this early accession. – One should assume, however, that he should know exactly. In conclusion: I am of course pleased that Mr Schieder has articulated his joy at ratification and accession and that the moment is ideal. – But even in the SPÖ it may sometimes be that and sometimes different. In conclusion, I would just like to end up at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In June 2005, a request for the opinion of Mr Cap and Mr Eins concerning the June 2005 European Council was made, which at the end of the day said: "The Federal Government and, in particular, the Federal Chancellors are finally invited to work hard in the EU to ensure that the EU's political consolidation takes precedence over any future enlargement. First, the EU-25 must be able to pursue policies in the interests of people in the EU effectively before further enlargements can be envisaged." The answer to this request for an opinion has been delivered by you yourself today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18530	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18551	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With today's decision to ratify the Accession Treaty with Bulgaria and Romania, Austria is taking another important step in the greatest peace project in history – and we must never lose sight of that! In all discussions and problems in Europe: The European Union's central message is: Never again by economic or social compensation between Member States! With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the European Union then reaches from the Atlantic to the Black Sea coast. Austria will benefit from these accessions as much as from the last enlargement by the ten new Member States. Austria is already the largest investor in both countries: In 2005, Austrian companies invested almost € 850 million. The fact that our country has an above-average economic growth compared to the other old EU countries is the result of a prudent policy and of many courageous investors, entrepreneurs who have seen the new Member States as an opportunity and not as a danger. At the same time, as in the last round of enlargement, the possibility of protecting both the labour market and certain services sectors with transitional arrangements is provided. Only in the first year following the accession of the so-called ten new ones is it clear: Austria is an enlargement winner. In the first year, export growth in the new Member States was 14.4 percent, and the total value of exports in 2004 was € 11.4 billion. This positive development of the European export economy continues: Only yesterday, the National Bank reported a record surplus in the current account: € 3 billion or 1.2 percent. Compared with 2004, this means an improvement of around €2.5 billion. President Liebscher refers this development back to Austria's accession to the European Union in 1995. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU is the largest sustainability project in history – sustainable, peaceful development through solidarity, economic cooperation and co-operation. Let us also share two other countries in this project, and let us not forget: We must bring Europe into the hearts of people! The successful Presidency of the Council of Austria so far is a good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18602	The next item is Mrs Grander. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18624	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I have simply considered Chapter 13 of the Accession Treaty, i.e. in particular the social aspect, and have tried to take a short look at Bulgaria and then Romania in certain areas such as labour law. In the field of labour law, comparatively good progress has been made in Bulgaria, and there has also been significant progress in implementing a number of relevant directives in the area of equal treatment for women and men – the same pay has been in force since 2004. In June 2004, amendments to the Labour Code were adopted. This is mainly about the legislation of the acquis on parental leave, the protection of pregnant workers and so on. At the beginning of 2004, a section on equal opportunities for men and women was set up in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in Bulgaria. In the field of public health – which I was interested in because of my professional situation – implementing rules were also adopted in February 2004, for example, on the basis of which a list of communicable diseases is drawn up by the acquis. In July 2004, a national plan was adopted to strengthen the system for the monitoring and control of communicable diseases from 2004 to 2007. – So there are a lot of things happening, especially in the health sector, in these countries mostly there are fears of contact. In Romania it is clear that, in connection with labour law, amendments to the Labour Code should be made in June 2005. A further approximation the acquis was achieved by the adoption of new legislation, in particular with regard to the European Works Councils. However, the implementation of these more recent legislations of the acquis is still pending. The administrative capacity of the Labour Inspectorate should be further improved in order to ensure the proper implementation of the acquis. The majority of the acquis has been implemented in the field of equal treatment for women and men. The strategy recently adopted to prevent and combat domestic violence is to be implemented in particular by setting up local networks. In the area of health and safety at work, legal approximation needs to be completed. The implementation of the national action plan on the monitoring and control of communicable diseases, including the expansion of the capacity of the National Centre for Transmissible Diseases, also requires efforts. Access to health care including prevention should be ensured for all citizens in order to improve the health status of the population. Reforms are also needed to improve the efficiency and performance of health care. So that was the catalogue that concerns Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18694	The next item is the speech by Mr Praßl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18715	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, the Treaty of Accession of Romania and Bulgaria must be compared with those which have been incorporated into the EU with the enlargement of the East. Austria is granted the right to limit access of workers from the new EU countries for up to seven years. Furthermore, the date of accession of the two countries, 1. January 2007 to move one year if the necessary reforms and commitments are not fulfilled. It is also worth mentioning, as the Federal Minister has already said, the closure of two blocks of nuclear power plants. This also confirms the positive development from the point of view of the Austrian anti-atomic policy. If the previously East opening has proved to be very positive for the overall economic location of Austria, this is also expected for the enlargement of Romania and Bulgaria. I also believe that the Austrian companies are good investors in these two candidate countries. Our companies have proven for many years that they have the ability to achieve a good volume in the field of export management. Thanks to the current Federal Government, which has set in motion the good economic conditions, the companies will contribute to this and ultimately continue and consolidate a very successful export process. In the field of agriculture, Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned some of the things I would like to confirm. Romania and Bulgaria have large agricultural areas, and there is good cooperation in the field of genetic engineering. to promote the free cultivation of soya and also in the field of the production of biofuels in order to achieve a corresponding rate of beekeeping for Europe as a whole. In future, we will cooperate with these two countries accordingly. For Austria, ladies and gentlemen, I think there are more advantages than disadvantages. I also believe that the European Union has more advantages than disadvantages. These two states are part of Europe, and they are simply part of the European Union. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18758	No one is reporting on this. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee, the conclusion of the Treaty between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on their accession to the European Union, and the Protocol on the Conditions of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania and the adjustments to the Treaties on which the European Union is based, together with the Annexes and Final Act in 1389 of the Supplements. Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union requires the presence of at least half of the members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Bulgarian, Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions are to be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Prolonged general condolences.]] [[19:26:29]] 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 799/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the private television law (1393 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18831	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. First of all, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is speaking. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18864	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have here a legislative proposal by Mr Scheuch and I, which represents another important building block in media policy. At last, media policy is being pursued! As you all know, there has been no one for years. Only since the time you are responsible, Mr. State Secretary Morak and Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, are there in Austria – thank God! – media policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I'm very glad. Only since we took responsibility for this has private television become possible. This proposal deals with frequencies in the analogue field. The frequency in the analogue range is a scarce good. Therefore, the ORF is limited in its dual use – which it has not necessarily used, since it has always broadcast the same – and it has to provide these frequencies to private individuals, which is a very useful regulation. It is also clarified how the cost recovery takes place, which must be paid to the ORF for the use of its frequencies. This has therefore become necessary because the Constitutional Court has challenged this by an examination decision. The advantages of these two points are very clear: First of all, legal certainty for the operators who already exist is guaranteed, and second, private television is provided in the agglomeration centres, such as Linz and Salzburg. Another change concerns a clarification of the must-carry provision. After switching to digital Terrestrials, the distribution order will also exist in the cable network. I am pleased that the Constitutional Committee has succeeded in adopting these amendments unanimously, and I am also pleased that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are taking part in this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18914	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18935	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has meant that there has only been a media policy in our country since the bowl. – Of course, this is a point I do not want to leave. But on the content, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, let me tell you, we share the view, and I believe that it is a good opportunity to think about laws in the event of revisions, whether they are far-reaching enough – or whether one should perhaps make something more transparent, looking into the future. I think clear rules are necessary for the ORF. It's just about: On the one hand, we have a public-law broadcasting with all the privileges of such an institution, but on the other hand private television operators – I am thinking of private radio operators – who have an unevenly more difficult starting point. If you observe, look at, consume, watch, then you can often find out very hard who has a public service mission here and who is primarily available for information. I believe that the commercialisation of the ORF is progressing in a way that should also be sought to consider whether the financing of the ORF is still modern or whether it corresponds to competition. If you look at the financing of TV companies or broadcasting companies, you can see on the one hand the ORF, which is financed by fees, which consumes some state subsidies that generate revenue from advertising – no no! – and also through the rental of competitors has the corresponding revenue. On the other hand, there are private individuals who have to challenge their existence exclusively through advertising revenue. I believe that it is in times like this mission to think about whether this should be the case – or whether the ORF should continue to be able to use its possibilities as a monopolist in the form it has done so far. A clear example: If you share knowledge for business design with a private TV operator today and tell him if you want to send along somewhere, some of you with the ORF, then you can use its facilities, there is no agreement, in a period of four months the regulatory authority will decide and determine what the corresponding compensation is for, then it is necessary on the one hand, but – and that is the peculiar thing – if you give virtually a monopolist the strength to decide what the competitors have to pay in the private field, then in my view it is a state that will not be able to stay if we want to have the competition. Therefore, you have to think about whether the practice has to be like that in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, another example has also led to the need to think about the regionalization mandate in the ORF. We have heard the example of Salzburg. There is no broadcast on private Salzburg TV at 7.30 a.m. because Upper Austria has access to the “Salzburg Window”. This would be less noticeable if at that time an oberösterreichische program were to be seen, but no: There you can see, just like it was on TV 40 years ago, when a real thunderstorm was, snow, strips and nothing else, to be able to see Salzburg TV again after 20 minutes. If you use the competition to make life so difficult for others, you will of course have problems in the future in a competition we all want. We want media diversity, but then you also have to assume that such a one is possible. I do not think we want to see Italian conditions, where privately almost all radio stations are owned. This is also a disadvantage, it is always only for the “advantage” – under quotation marks – of the one who is just on the row. This is always for the good that is supposed to influence there, but ultimately we all suffer, and the population will then think and say: Do I have to let myself afford to pay for something I don't want to see?- Oh, my God! – Therefore, our joint mission to think about it. This amendment of this law will be decided by the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e18986	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19010	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speaker, Mrs Mag. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, has done that is a necessary change. On the one hand, there was the complaint at the VfGH, and I also believe that it is good, important and right – there is consensus about it – because something to change to make this use feasible and also feasible. When Mr Prehauser talks about this injustice between the private and the ORF, and also shows examples, such as that from Salzburg, one will of course have to consider: Where are there improvements, where are there also proposals to create more equality? I think that these are just many important and right steps you take – and that's one of them now; it won't be the last. One can be convinced that the change in the media landscape will simply do a lot in the next few years. The ORF must not stop either. I think – if this is still allowed to me as a thought – that will generally be in the ORF in such a way that one cannot stand. If, as in the last days and weeks around the re-occupied management of the ORF, we discuss and hear what wishes there are from all political parties to have a say, we also need to consider in this context whether the current ORF law is far enough – or whether we should not work to push forward a depoliticization of the ORF, to ensure that influence, from any area, will become less, that once a public council election has more quality than the last two, in which in reality only party-politically motivated organisations have sent people into the race. This new order, which now stands over the summer and in future in autumn, I think offers a good chance. The appeal goes to all parties to reflect on how economic approaches can be more focused on thinking about how not only higher fees can ensure compliance with the public contract, how to shape the ORF as such more modern, so that perhaps at the end of the day, when it comes to the comparison of private and public broadcasting and television programmes, this equality can be achieved by itself. This law, as has been said, does not pose a threat to the supply contract, strengthens private television, creates more balance. My group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19050	The next item is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19071	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We do not need to discuss this regulation for too long, I believe. It had become unanimously necessary in the Constitutional Committee on the basis of a decision, and we are also happy to take part in this change. The point is: If it is found here that the ÖVP is now making media policy and that has not happened before, then it already has a special sound to look at how reporting in the ORF works. A certain form of media policy obviously operates the ÖVP, which nobody will call into question – and what this media policy means for the ORF, that is another question. If you look at how, above all, information broadcasts are currently occupied by political missions in the ORF, how they are going, how the decision-making policy takes place, who is invited there, how ministers are currently very much allowed to participate, who is invited to debate, and who is then tacitly taken note of it in the ORF – that is a good question; since you can have several examples that are taking place on a continuous basis – then the question arises whether this form of how the ÖVP is dealing with the ORF will not ultimately lead to the massively threatened economic situation of the company. [[Abg. May. Controller: Oh, that's it?]] We know the deployment rates, we know the developments in the field of messages, we know them especially with the boys, where there are now the most massive breakdowns in the messages. I do not know if you are so aware that there is now exactly a message from the ORF that pursues more than one third of the age to 29 years old, that is the “ZiB 1”; on all other programmes, the ORF has now massively broken in. This certainly also has to do with changing media behavior, not a question, the Internet has become more important, but it alone is due to it being too simple. If we look at the fact that exciting discussions will hardly be possible, that delicate issues, especially if they are sensitive to the government, cannot be dealt with, that shipments are partially broadcast in a form that actually takes place in the form of mandatory reporting – I am thinking only of how the EU Presidency is presented – then the question arises whether the ÖVP is going there a way that is compatible with the ORF. We believe that there must be a change of course and that a form of independence, which the Austrians are massively demanding, would give the ORF security for the future. We can only decide novelles as they are, but the question is what happens to the company if it goes on the way in the past few years where disinterest increases. This question should be raised by all political parties, in particular the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19108	Mrs Hellerer's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19129	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! With its media television, radio and internet, the ORF has a very wide and diverse range and is of course only influenced by party politics when it comes to sharing extensive information, always fully in the trend of time – and not the way you see it from the SPÖ. That's just not true, but that's something you've been feeding into it on the basis of your ideology. Of course, the ORF is also very close to the events and always at the front as regards cultural programmes, sports programmes, entertainment programmes, but also contributions to the economy, education and science. Of course, the ORF also fulfils its mission in the sense of federalism and therefore maintains the state studios in the federal states. These are nine national studios that broadcast regional programmes, which are very specific to the regions. These are programmes such as “Bundesland today”, “Austria image”, “Land and people”, also broadcasts for the Slovenian people group in Carinthia and for the Croatian or Hungarian people group in Burgenland. It is therefore of course important to carry out cultural activities by the ORF. These regional programmes are usually broadcast in the evening, and this creates free transmission capacities, which can be used by private providers accordingly. This is precisely where this new law takes effect, because it regulates the use of certain free capacities and, of course, also ensures the provision of the population with the federal programmes and regional programmes within the meaning of the public service contract. This amendment also sets out how to deal with costs between private authorisation holders and the ORF in the future. The ORF is also a very successful media company. By the end of 2005, TV and radio players were even able to reach a new peak. It is very likely, therefore, that people are interested in the programmes of the ORF and, of course, are also aware of the sending times accordingly. The ORF was also able to increase its turnover in 2005, and it succeeded in achieving this economic goal of a black zero. [[Abg. Of course: Black Zero?- Oh, my God!]] It is already true that, thanks to the media policy measures of this Federal Government under Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund, there has been dynamic weather development and also a liberalisation shift in the field of Austrian media, especially under State Secretary Franz Morakseit in 2000. With this innovation, this very positive path will be pursued and this successful development of the ORF will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19172	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19193	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! An important step was taken in 2001 to ensure a more efficient use of the only limited analog spectrum available. The possibility of using analogue transmission capacities of the ORF was created by holders of a non-domestic private television admission. The intention was to give up the existing dual supply of the ORF in favour of the development of a private terrestrial television market in agglomerations. That's how it worked. However, on the basis of a pending appeal from the Constitutional Court, it was found that the provision of an appropriate remuneration for temporary use did not give a definitive statement. By clarifying the legislative text, the ORF will replace the costs actually incurred or incurred. On the other hand, the ORF transmission capacities are not its property, but are used to fulfill its legal mandate. The regulation of cost replacement for the transmission of analogue transmission capacities not only creates legal certainty, as we have already heard, but also benefits both the ORF and the private regional television operators. In contrast to colleagues from the opposition, I would like to conclude by stressing that the ORF, as a central part of the Austrian media landscape, fulfils its public-law mission perfectly, and we thank the responsible party in the ORF for this. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] However, regional private television has also developed tremendously in recent years and contributes to the need for information from Austrians. This regionalisation is an essential media-political success, but also a political success for democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19239	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1393 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:47:57]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 792/A (E) by Mr Mag. Christine Lapp, colleagues on the withdrawal of Mag. Herbert Head of the function of the disabled lawyer (1361 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19294	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lap. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19324	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In this motion for a resolution, we ask the Minister to remove Mr Handicappede from his office. That's a long story. Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt has already submitted an interest before the gender equality law was adopted and the disabled attorney's office has become a disposition by saying that he had the best conditions for it. There was an invitation to tender and, without hearing, Mr. Ex-Vizekanzler was given the function of the disabled lawyer. We have already discussed the question of care posts in the afternoon. And now we come to the crucial thing: In a first interview in a daily newspaper, Mr. Disability Advocate said that he wanted to do so. to fight that the BZÖ could remain in Parliament that it would be with “electional struggles”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a threat to people with disabilities, for it is stated in the law on equal treatment for disabled persons that the disabled lawyer has his task to fulfil independently! But in an interview, the disabled lawyer openly admits that he will fight for a political party. This cannot be done by people with disabilities, for it is a good thing that they are disadvantaged if they belong to another political party! In addition, Herbert Haupt suspends the office as a disabled lawyer of criticism, an important office, because disabled people do not have a lot of lobbys for their concerns. This office should exercise principal with dignity, with great sense of responsibility and great sense of duty, but this statement in an interview in the “Small Newspaper” where he meant that he would use this office to fight elections, shows that not the rights and concerns of the people, especially the disabled, are addressed, but that all the institutions in our state are used to secure their stay here in the House. Mainly, independence cannot be guaranteed, because disabled people cannot be treated equally. Mrs. Minister, put an end to this party – and remove the disabled lawyer from his position! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in this interview, the disabled attorney used a maximum of 10 percent of the time for the concerns of disabled people, the rest for party policy issues. This interview continues with Mr Mag. The main issue in Haider’s local board question is that – this is now a literal quote – it’s so good that you don’t “get rid of it with tricks from pocket players and angle lawyers”. This statement, ladies and gentlemen, is a very blatant threat to democracy, because it disregards existing legal agreements and disapproves and condemns the supreme constitutional judges. There again it turns out that Mag. Herbert Haupt misuses his function and is therefore intended to be removed from this function. A person who cannot comply with democratic rules and democratic agreements cannot act as a disabled person. – Mrs Minister, you are required: Remove the disabled lawyer from his function!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19392	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19413	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Herbert Haupt has been in office as a disabled lawyer for almost four months now – and I think it can be said that he has a considerable record to show. He has recently presented a 100-day disabled attorney's office and presented a report which can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I'll talk a little more about that later. Mrs Lap, I would like to start by referring to your motion for a resolution in detail. [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's your job too!]] – Thank you for reminding me of my tasks, that’s very nice! – You act with this request once again in accordance with the principle: We are now simply saying something without any objective justification, and there will already be something hanging. – It may be that the political tactic is, but it is an imaginable bad style. But, well, we know that anyway; it's going through like a red thread. The same is true of me as the explanatory statement in your request. They state Herbert Haupt that, by his commitment to a political party alone, the objective fulfilment of his task as a disabled lawyer is not guaranteed, and you even have the Chuzpe – and you have now also repeated this in your speech – to claim and submit to him that he will treat people with disabilities who are not close to the BZÖ in a worse way. – That’s something I have to reject with all the sharpness, because that’s an incredible assumption! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, Mrs Lapp, even you – I have been surfing the Internet for two hours today and have been looking for statements from you – find no factual arguments that speak against Herbert Haupt as a disabled lawyer. The only “argument” that you repeatedly point out in the discussion is that of “party political motivation”. I think that's the problem you have yourself: They themselves seem to look only through the “party glasses. ” I think there is a saying here that I would like to write to you in the main book: “As the bad guy thinks, so is he!” Party political activities and belonging to a party are certainly nothing bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I warn you that if we have such a discussion, in principle to prohibit party political belonging or party-political sense of belonging, or to make it ready, because: This can certainly be agreed with an objective activity, an over-party activity, such as that of a disabled lawyer. This has something to do with professionalism, Mrs Colleague, even if you may not know this word or the meaning of it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I also want to maintain that it is absolutely possible that a person – no matter what function he or she is in – can also take a position as a private person on something. And that cannot mean that this person is in principle challenged in every function. The commitment for people with disabilities, ladies and gentlemen, is something that Herbert Haupt has been doing for many years, specifically – I have looked at it – since 1978, especially, and that, since he has been active in politics. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also approved the following motions for resolutions: Commitment within the meaning of the disabled and the disabled. I read that in the minutes today. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Please! The oilman needs to know! Every now and then, he's telling the truth!]] I can only say once again: I have nowhere found a critical point that would in any way justify the fact that Herbert Haupt is a disabled lawyer. A few points that Herbert Haupt identifies as a disabled lawyer: As a municipal council, he has been awarded the status of integration and equal rights of disabled people. The promotion of the sport of disabled persons was an important issue for him. And: He has repeatedly set up numerous activities and initiatives to promote awareness of the problems of disabled people. I think it's very important that this is something a disabled lawyer should do: To raise awareness in the population of the concerns and problems of disabled people. As Minister Herbert Haupt has initiated the employment offensive, the so-called disability billions for the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market, with the aim of professional integration. In addition to numerous other initiatives within the meaning of the disabled, in his time as Minister of Social Affairs, the Employment Equality Act was finally adopted. I think you yourself will not succeed in talking this bad, because that is certainly one of Herbert Haupt's greatest successes in his role as Minister of Social Affairs. I can assure you that Herbert Haupt as a member of the government could be quite stubborn in his commitment to the disabled people in our country, for example, when it came to creating a corresponding consciousness. To assume that on the basis of his confession to a party, Herbert Haupt cannot work objectively for disabled people, that really disregards any basis – and should even be too cheap for you from the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19505	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19526	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my actual contribution to the debate, I would like to say that I find something particularly noteworthy – I do not know who has noticed it –: I am amazed that, on this issue, the ÖVP is not going to be the first speaker of the disabled speakers to the speaker's desk, but a different Member. [[Abg. Großruck: There are always surprises in life!]] What's behind that? What does that say? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would have thought we were already a step further and people with disabilities could also be represented in the ÖVP itself. – In fact, however, it is not, and you should think about it, ladies and gentlemen. It is really amazing that Mr Huainigg is only allowed to speak as a second speaker, although it concerns the problem of people with disabilities. But maybe there's an explanation that's also solid for me. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Now on the subject: Mrs. Haubner, it's no secret that you shouldn't have signed the position of the disabled lawyer or the disabled lawyer. It is nowhere in the Equality Act that you need to write out the place. But you did. There were twelve applications, one of which was by Herbert Haupt. We all knew it, and not because the others did not have the knowledge or the quality to set the disabled lawyer, but it was always clear when Herbert Haupt officially confessed to the BZÖ, then he became a disabled lawyer. [[Abg. Walch: Because he's the best!]] If he didn't, it would have become someone else. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can still remember this: Two days before the disabled lawyer was nominated by you, medially the decision has been made, Herbert Haupt has become known to the BZÖ. Two days later, he was a disabled lawyer. Such a chance, Mrs. Minister, that it is said that a Commission would have assessed the documents of the twelve applicants accordingly. Nothing they have done, but only three people – someone from your party, someone from the ministry and a representative of the ÖAR – have looked at the applications in formal terms, and that's it! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] You, Mrs Bundesminister Haubner, have decided not to ask anyone, and we know your decision! It is unfair, Mrs. Minister, that you send eleven other people the application, although you know that Herbert Haupt will be when he confesses to the BZÖ. It has now been mentioned by Mrs Marek that no one can blame on the law on equal treatment for disabled persons that no one will find himself. Yes: We Greens – and not just us! A press conference entitled “100 Days Herbert Haupt” was held a few days ago. I thought I heard and read badly: All that we have criticized and practically despised in all these years when we came into being this law on disabled persons. The former Prime Minister has now also complained with us. He also said that the transitional periods are too long, that there is a lack of burden of proof and the absence of discrimination. - That's all right, yes! Mr former Minister Chief, Mr Disability Advocate Head: Good morning, now you've also understood what we've been telling you for years! I'll give you the right to: Yeah, it's a toothless law, but as a minister, you said: We're so good! 100 days later in office You're saying the law's not good, on the contrary, it's very bad. – And I agree with you: Yeah, it's a bad law, and we were expecting something else. But you, as Minister of State at the time, put this law before us and said: It's good! What's wrong with you? - Now you've gotten smarter. It's too late, unfortunately, because we now have this bad law on our necks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course everyone can stand or sit where he wants, that's everybody's business, but: A disabled lawyer has to stand above things! It is for many people who want to have nothing to do with the BZÖ or the liberal or wherever you swing back and forth, a personal problem to have to go to someone who says publicly: I'm from BZÖ, and I'm going to throw myself into the election campaign for the BZÖ! - That's a problem! Mr Main, I am trying to distance you from it and to refrain from it if you really want to be a lawyer for all disabled people, because with it you do not create any confidence, but only rejection! That would be the same, ladies and gentlemen, if the lawyers were to roam around on party political stages. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What about Stadler?]] At Stadler you were all quite right, but in this case it would suddenly be okay. That's not okay either, and it can't be either. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Haupt, I expect you to be a disabled lawyer who has nothing to do with party politics and to whom all people with disabilities should have the same access! One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: Whether the disabled lawyer's chief is good or bad, we can't judge yet, no one can do that now. There has not yet been any action by the Minister, because the duration of the proceedings is too long, so he has not yet been able to do so. We do not yet know what everything has accumulated more or less and what one is now trying to do with 400 € pain money or insult or as one always calls it to be pushed off and not to make complaints. Mr. Haupt, you haven't done the proof yet whether you're good, that'll show up. In July, we may know more. One thing to be said to you: Take your distance from party politics and try to be a disabled lawyer who represents all people with disabilities, even if they are not your party's – and that's almost all, I also want to say that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask you, Prime Minister, to clean up what you have found after your 100 days, namely, that the law is a “chaste”, as we say in the country – not I said, but the Prime Minister. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Nice speech!]] I'm just saying he's right. Take initiatives so that we can finally get a change and a law on equal treatment for the disabled, which is actually worthy of this name. This isn't it, you've been wrong, your law is a shmarr'n, your law is bad. Go to your wife's minister who gave you this post and tell her that the law needs to be changed, not at some point, but immediately. That would be the first proof of whether you, Mr. Haupt, are actually working in the interests of people with disabilities – or whether you are exclusively concerned with your care and about post-chachers. Mr. Disability attorney, Chief, I'll give you the chance. You now have time to use it and act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19647	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19668	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Haidlmayr, you are not at all allowed to censor the list of speakers. Each party can row the speakers as it would like. Next time you say, we need to talk to him or her. You don't want us to interfere with your list of speakers either. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, I believe that Mr Huainigg does not need your support at all, he can touch himself, and I am convinced that I am 100% convinced. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another point, Mrs Haidlmayr: You have accused Mr. Disability attorney of being a chief, but he has only now understood that the law – I do not use the word you used – is not good. . We have always said that the law on equal treatment for the disabled is a start, as we have decided. It was no longer enforceable at the moment. We have addressed close-ups – and, of course, it has always been said that it is also being improved. I have also said in my speech about the law on disability equal treatment that the transitional periods should be reduced, which is perfectly clear. To put Herbert Haupt as a dummerl, who at the time did not know that there was still much to improve, is quite simply ridiculous. Mrs Haidlmayr, I prefer to have this law “on my neck” than not to have at all an equal treatment law. This Federal Disability Equality Act has been brought to the attention of the Minister. Mrs Lapp, now to you, because we are dealing with your request. I agree that you are interested in disability issues, that you also understand them. I take it from you that you really mean that. That was not the case in the past, however, because before you came here, Mrs Lapp, there was no one who has dealt with disability issues. One has to find out, and I often criticized that at that time. But with this request, Mrs Lapp, you are showing that cheap polemics are more important to you than the affairs of the disabled – and I condemn that! It is obvious to you that it is a matter of beating political little money and attacking the disabled lawyer in a way that is quite evil, to put things under him that have not happened at all. And I really find that unscrupulous – and also unfair! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For example, you also misunderstand § 13 Disability Equality Act. It clearly states that the Federal Disability Advocate is independent and independent. Of course, he is not agreed to have an ideological opinion, and of course he can express this opinion. It's just like a judge. A judge is independent, he must be objective, but, of course, he – like any other human being – has his own ideology, a world view, but he has to restore this view of the world in his judgment. That's important! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The red don't understand that!]] The most important thing is not to be fooled. That means he doesn't have to accept instructions, and he doesn't. I am convinced that Mrs Haubner does not at all intend to give him an instruction. What's she gonna tell him? – Give You're not talking to a disability club? Or is she supposed to say you have to reject that? – I don’t know what before They are so afraid that instructions could be given. I think you should review your opinion a little bit in this regard. I don't know why you get the idea that non-BZÖ disabled people are treated worse than others. Mrs Lapp, in which categories do you think? – That's really scary! [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Gemeinde Wien!]] I can only imagine that this is the embossed socialist traditional thought. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Vienna someone just got an apartment that's a socialist. Someone just got a job with the community that's a socialist. And with the police, when everything was still socialistly dominated, it was only taken up when you were a socialist. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's still like that!]] [[Abg. Reheis: It's a fool!]] This is obviously still the guide for you, Mrs Lapp, because otherwise I cannot imagine why you make such bizarre claims that someone is being disadvantaged because he does not belong to the BZÖ. - It's on your hair, please! As I said, I can only say this because of your socialist past – “ past” – or because of your socialist thinking. Ms. Haidlmayr asked: Why should someone go to a disabled lawyer who belongs to the BZÖ? But the Volksanwälten will be according to the law... [[Abg. Faul: They have themselves been put under pressure from BZÖ!]] I didn't get under pressure, no, that's not true at all. I have not been pressured by the BZÖ at all! [[Abg. Faul: Then why did you leave?]] – No, you got it completely wrong, you once again did not understand something right! Now to the Volksanwälten: There is a SPÖ Volksanwalt Kostelka, there is an ÖVP Volksanwärtin Bauer, and there is the FPÖ Volksanwalt Stadler. People come to these lawyers – probably the majority – who do not belong to this party. I think you should see that correctly – and not only through the polemic glasses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] They also accused Herbert Haupt of not complying with democratic rules. – Herbert Haupt has not even adopted an approach to not complying with the rules of the game or to violate democratic principles. Mrs Lap, if there was anything like that, then would have You must say that Mr. Disability Advocate has the head of the democratic rules, has violated the law! But you really should have told him that. But just saying that because it fits you into the political stuff, that's unscrupulous! That is not worthy of you, Mrs Lapp! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now to the person of the disabled lawyer Herbert Haupt: I don't know anyone better than he would be fit for this activity. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I already know several!]] Herbert Haupt has proved as a minister that he is more important to disabled people than anything else. Herbert Haupt has had far-reaching tasks as a Social Minister, but the disabled have and always have priority with him. He has also introduced, continued and for the first time after years increased the care allowance! Herbert Haupt is sensitive, patient – and extremely understanding. I was at some point with the Minister for Justice and was negotiating with her for the law on property. In my opinion, Mr. Disability attorney came to the head because he wanted to do something for the disabled in the field of justice. I was with Mrs. Prokop. After me, the disabled lawyer came because he wanted to do something for the disabled in the public sector at the executive. I got an invitation from the club Bechterew. And who was invited there as the main speaker? – Mr. Bundes-Dispute lawyer Herbert Haupt! I know of many interventions he has followed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] – You know it very well, I don't need to tell you anything at all! Herbert Haupt, I believe, will bring with me the best conditions for this activity. I am convinced that all disabled people – no matter what ideological attitude – are well removed from him. I see no reason at all for Mrs Herbert's office or appointment or for him to resign.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19844	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19866	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé, whether Mr Haupt has the best conditions, we can find this very difficult because there was no hearing. Being determines the consciousness – and that hardly becomes as clear as with your former self-proclaimed Saubermann party. The fact that you create a party book economy is probably a strong piece, for: Post chess has pulled through your reign like a black-blue, now-oranger thread! But now, in the mood of the gated panic, all the inhibitions are obviously falling with you. As has already been discussed in the urgent question, it is only one of many political artists who, as long as it goes, are being lifted into lucrative positions. To provide your people with all your creativity in the long term. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You will notice that this is not your subject area! You can see that! Otherwise a good speaker!]] The key tasks of the Ministries will be outsourced in order to secure you from close-to-earth contracts, which will also include subsequent governments. This is also the case with the family structure of the Ministry of Social Affairs or now with the Health Service of the Ministry of Health. However, the main result is from the reach of the children of care when he has a very highly sensitive office, which is already under the law – and that is the good of it – high demands on independence, especially on the political ones. That you interpret this so strangely is also a very strong piece, because the much quoted interview in the “Small Newspaper” and also other statements of the former Minister’s Head clearly show that he does not intend to exercise his office unpolitically, but will do everything he has said to do to ensure that the BZÖ returns to Parliament, even to the government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Pure polemics!]] And there's a lot he's doing. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The BZÖ! The BZÖ!]] Good thing you're seeing BZÖ as a sex neutral, because then you can't multiply at least – but this danger is already banned in you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Herbert Haupt will also have received this political mission to justify the thanks of his party and also his coalition partner, who was very often failed during his government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The rest of the speech itself is qualified for this word message!]] We remember: When it became brittle, the head sat down and like a cast pudel had the criticism of the opposition – also for the coalition partner. After the Knittelfelder Putsch, he took over the party, which, by the way, links Herbert Haupt with Mathias Reichhold, who was also very well-equipped. You may have your reasons for your personnel policy, but: For an alliance of emergency nails, this country is really too bad for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19952	Mrs Haubner has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e19973	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today I welcome the disabled lawyer Herbert Haupt, who is present at the gallery, who is following this discussion. I would also like to say that he does not need any kind of care, as the Members of the Socialist Group imagine it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! May. Herbert Haupt has been since 1. January this year as a disabled lawyer responsible for the interests of people with special needs. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: We have no “special needs”!]] And this institution is a special element in the enforcement of rights, which are also listed in the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. Allow me to present once again the tasks of the disabled lawyer, as they are in the Federal Disability Act: The disabled person is responsible for the advice and support of persons who feel discriminated against under the Federal Disability Equality Act or the Anti-Discrimination Provisions of the Disability Regulation. It can hold speaking hours and speaking hours throughout the federal territory for this purpose. The disabled person shall be independent, independent and shall not be bound by instructions in the performance of his duties. The disabled lawyer may carry out investigations on discrimination against people with disabilities and publish reports and make recommendations on all issues concerning discrimination against people with disabilities. The disabled person must submit an annual activity report to the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, as well as to the Federal Disability Advisory Board, whose member he is, orally, to report. The appointment by the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection is not bound by any formal requirements by law. The term of office shall be four years. The Federal Minister must remove the disabled person from his function if he requests the removal or neglects the duties of his function. Ladies and gentlemen! Herbert Haupt has done excellent work for this republic for 20 years in various functions. I think, especially in his work as the Federal Minister for Social Security, he has acquired an impoverished reputation across party borders in the work of the disabled, as a person who is concerned with the problems of people with disabilities. Herbert Haupt fulfills his tasks first-class! His previous balance sheet, this 100-day disabled attorney's office, speaks a positive language. [[Abg. Haidlmayr:... Private care!]] I would point out that up to now 470 persons have addressed the disabled's attorneyship that Herbert Haupt, as his priorities for consulting and information activity, has pointed out in particular that in these 100 days, in particular, there are various changes to be made in the field of the "scientific" law, that he is very intensive in the law which is to be decided here in Parliament, that he is very much concerned with the prohibition of discrimination, that he is focusing on the problem which is constantly being classified with the experts, that he makes a cooperation with disabled organisations throughout the country, that he is consulting on projects, their financing and their implementation, and that, as I have said, he keeps public speaking days in the federal offices of the Federal Social Offices. The result of these 100 days shows that we have to deal with a disabled lawyer, who shows the highest level of responsibility and sensitivity, and above all very intense human commitment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on this request, Mrs Lap. I would like to take this request on the occasion of the request contained in it and to bear in mind that in a democracy – each of us – we have the right to express our opinion freely. Thus, everyone can express his political opinion. And that's true for everyone. This is God, thank God, a part of our democracy. That's true for everyone! This also applies, ladies and gentlemen, to my officials in the Social Ministry, who belong to all political groups, to officials in the highest positions to be made. I have red officials, I have black officials, I have green officials, officials who are councillors who are countrymen. I had no reason so far to doubt the position of their office, even if they applied for a position in the context of an election. And what is true of red, black and green also applies to the disabled lawyer, even if he does not belong to any of these parties. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What, as I said, applies to these officials, who are very likely to make decisions and also to represent the Ministry of Social Affairs externally, is also true of Herbert Haupt, especially when it concerns his free time. This, I think, has come out quite clearly, and Herbert Haupt has also said this in an interview when he was asked for his political opinion. He was not only asked how he was doing his office, but he was asked quite specifically for his political opinion and he expressed this political opinion. That's why I really ask you: Quit these polemic precepts and see Herbert Haupt as someone who ultimately takes up work for a group of people, namely for people with disabilities, for people who especially need our support and our support and above all equal rights! If you see that, then you will also say that Herbert Haupt is the right choice. I see no reason to withdraw Herbert Head from his function.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20059	As the next speaker, Mr Huainigg has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20081	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is nice that my colleague is worried about my position on the list of speakers. Only: I have no problem with speaking as the second of my party, and as a gentleman I am happy to leave a dedicated colleague to take the lead. It's been said a lot, that's the difficulty when you get to it later. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have to say that Herbert Haupt, his competence and knowledge are really not questionable. When you talk to him alone, you can see that he could chat for hours out of the sewing box. Herbert Haupt has a great knowledge of the social field, which he was able to acquire as a very committed social minister. Herbert Haupt has introduced the disability billions and personal assistance at the workplace. He brought in the Equality Act. A lot has happened through him. The way in which he now deals with and carries out the disabled's prosecution is also very much to be expected, for in this short period alone he has collapsed all the federal states, all the disabled organizations and has conducted many discussions as well as consultations. Herbert Haupt has also – this shows his commitment, which is found in his list of tasks – written to all the national leaders with the request, but has set up ambulances for deaf people in the state hospitals. And it is said that there is also interest on the part of some federal states. I believe that he is also doing persuasive work in this way and is giving important impetus. This office fits very well with him. As this function has been criticised for not being wise, I must say that is not true, because it is contained in the Equality Act that this office is free of discretion. Of course, it could have been lifted in the constitutional order, but this requires a majority in Parliament, which, unfortunately, was not given in the Equality Act. [[Abg. Scheibner: Eben!]] The first results of the gender equality law are also available: There are more than 20 conciliation procedures, which should also be very positive. There is also a high willingness on the part of the economy to find quick solutions and not to wait until you go to court. In some cases, there is no conciliation either, because the problems are already resolved in advance. I believe that the Equality Act has a great signal effect and will also produce a lot of things. Accessibility has become a topic. It happens on land, much on land in this direction. I would also like to say that the disabled lawyer Herbert Haupt has done something, namely that he has this function, with the background that he was a Social Minister. This situation gives this office a very high priority. The disabled lawyer has become an important function, also as an ombudsman. As far as election campaign is concerned, it must be said that it will not be distributed in his office. I see it as a matter of course that he only conducts election campaign in his free time. It is not fair to make such allegations, just to make a person mad, because he confesses himself to be a political function. That's just cheap polemics. Herbert Haupt is a disabled lawyer; he is a good lawyer. I'm sure he'll do well. Disabled people can look to him with confidence. – This ‘in all clarity’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20126	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20148	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Marek was of the opinion that she revealed a secret when she said: Even the oiller has not disputed the commitment of the Head of Parliament to the Committee. – I do not dispute it here in plenary either. I don't argue because it's a fact. But: Is this argument sufficient in an assessment of the application? I don't argue, it's true: Herbert Haupt is committed. Mrs Marek, let us perhaps look at the circumstances of his appointment again and come to what else is to be said to a disabled lawyer who likes to and with all his commitment to the BZÖ election campaign. To order. Herbert Haupt, as Minister, has prepared the law on equal treatment for disabled persons, has also prepared the defendant's office. I assume he didn't do this – and I really assume it – to create a post for himself. But what happened, Mrs Marek and my ladies and gentlemen? – Herbert Haupt resigns as Minister of the BZÖ, becomes a Member again, and his subsequent Minister – including the BZÖ – appoints her predecessor as a disabled lawyer. One choice, one comparison with the other people who have applied, cannot be said at the best of will. Okay, that's her decision; that's where the woman minister has to justify herself. It has to be criticized for this and has also been criticized by our side. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Or not!]] And was also criticized! [[Abg. Scheibner: You asked for an invitation to tender! And it's done!]] - What are you up to? This is something I do not think is right, because there are very clear rules here, promises have also been made – even in the response to the question was made as if a selection procedure had taken place. And this has not been done in the best interests, except for a selection by the Minister, but certainly not by the alleged evaluation committee. - But that's just the one point. [[Abg. Scheibner: The evaluation committee has decided nothing!]] The second point is: Mrs. Minister, you said Herbert Haupt doesn't need a service post. - Okay, but then I ask you, Mrs. Minister: Why are you still hiding what Mr. Disability Advocate has in income? It is the only function in the public sector that I know – there is a reference pyramid, a salary deposit – in which the competent minister refuses to disclose even a detail of income. There is no other income for which that is the same. We know how much a popular lawyer deserves. In reply to the question, the Minister writes only: Well, he deserves about as much as a lawyer, like other lawyers. But why don't you tell me, Mrs. Federal Minister? Why do you hide the amount of salary, whereby we allow that Are you going to open this up? And then, on the other hand, tell me it's not a supply post. – Please, one is also in a relationship, though not in a very direct one. But now I still ask: Herbert Haupt was also a committed politician. Yes, for the BZÖ, he – in which you are absolutely right, I would not be complaining about that – is of course also a political opinion as a disabled lawyer. That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Good thing you let us do this!]] The point is whether someone appointed by a BZÖ minister as a BZÖ man as an disabled lawyer in this function is publicly declared that I will make the most of his success for the BZÖ election campaign. - Then the whole thing gets a slight impact. [[Abg. Neudeck: Is this a 24-hour job?]] You can remember that we had a similar debate, and no one disputed that we would be able to represent and represent political, party-political occupations at the public prosecutor's office, in the selection of the public prosecutor's office. However, we had a political debate about the popular lawyer Stadler because, in our opinion, it has come into a certain contradiction with certain laws and also political traditions of this republic, public and, in addition, has still acted massively party-politically. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a difference!]] Even if that was your common party at the time, Mr Scheibner, I accept that you were different from him; nevertheless you defended him publicly and said he did the best. [[Abg. Scheibner: What did I say?]] Of course! We had a debate here in which we called for Stadler's resignation, and there you all thought: No, the Stadler is great! [[Abg. Scheibner: No “Lex Stadler”!]] Let's get back here. I don't want to compare main with Stadler, but: Herbert Haupt publicly declares as a disabled lawyer that he wants the BZÖ to win a election. In the same interview, he criticized the VfGH, just like Carinthian head of state Haider. He has also done this as a parliamentarian here in this House. However, I can no longer deal with him politically, because as parliamentarians I do not have the opportunity to do so, except through a vote-off request. His successor is responsible for his appointment and his successor is also responsible for his appointment. There's one hand on the other. Therefore, in such a case and in such a massage of suspicions, there is not much else left. Now I'm gonna tell you something: I do not suspect that Mr. Head will treat some non-BZOs differently. No, I didn't suspect that! I don't think that the main question is: Are you or are you from the BZÖ, from the SPÖ, from the Greens or from any other party? – I don’t have that suspicion! But I am already satisfied that the use of my colleague's head, whom I do not dispute, may be transformed into an activity of the host BZÖ, which is paid at the expense of the Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] That it is described in such a way that the BZÖ makes disability policy, although Mr Haidlmayr has already made it clear to you that at the time, as a colleague, he had to represent the disabled as a minister, there was just as little further done by law than by others. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: As the bad man thinks, so is he!]] The point is: I don't dispute his commitment. However, what Herbert Haupt continues to do and how good or well-paid work for the Republic will ultimately be reworked for the BZÖ in the interests of disabled people is a question that we have to be interested in. So don't be angry with me, ladies and gentlemen, when I say: In the case of such statements, a disabled lawyer must take the same care as a popular lawyer Kostelka or a national lawyer, Bauer, who is also doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20301	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20323	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, you know very well that Herbert Haupt, who has been here in this House for more than 20 years, has done over-partial best work, and I think there are only a few here. What hurts me especially personally is that Mrs. Haidlmayr here, like a pipe patch, insults how bad Herbert Haupt had been! . However, I know how often my colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, has been talking about problems or about helping people with disabilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Haidlmayr, go out and apologise, because that really has to do with the character of a human being! [[Abg. Oillinger: “Go out”...?]] Something I really have to say now: I do not understand how Mr Lapp can now make a request for election after her party has had government responsibility for decades and has done almost nothing or little for disabled people in Austria! Mr Main, on the other hand, as Minister for Social Affairs, introduced a billion disabled people in Austria. He has really caused something to be done for people with disabilities and offered them help. He has initiated personal help, help in the workplace, support and much more. Mr. Lapp! What you haven't done, Mr. Head has done! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: And that was a lot!]] Now suppose him that in an interview in which he spoke as a private person, he has about said that he will now set up activities in his activity as a disabled lawyer for the BZÖ. I ask you to: Excuse me for this claim, because he never said that! I'm proud of what Herbert Haupt does as a private person and that he belongs to my mind, because he's a man who performs, he has proved that! My colleague, Haidlmayr, has said that he has not conducted any court proceedings until today. Mrs Haidlmayr, I have been in a business for 37 years and since 1976 a works council. But I wasn't very often in court with the boss. If you have enforcement ability and can bring arguments, you don't need a court! If you always need a dish at once, you are weak in some way. Only if it doesn't work, you have to turn on the court. Herbert Haupt has persuasiveness and enforcement. He has also been a critic of this kind. This has been seen, for example, by his farewell speech, in which he has given some parties here in the house the same way that, when he comes back to this house, he wants to see a lot of people with disabilities right here in the meantime. He did that with one party and the other party, and that is exactly how he will do it with us, and that is proof that he is an over-party disabled lawyer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You prefer the opposition to see your BAWAG and your SPÖ scandals get all right! And the Greens would ask me to stick to the truth a little more! We won't let Herbert shoot anyone, he's one of the best disabled lawyers in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20385	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction from her seat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20409	Mr President. Mr Walch has claimed that only I would have reproached about this law on equal treatment for men and women. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – That’s wrong! In the so-called 100-day press conference of Mr. Disability Attorney Head, he himself argued about his own law, about the too long transitional periods, about non-indictability, about the fact that there is no return of evidence and, and, [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] All of this can be read in the APA broadcast. By the way, I think it's good that Minister Head has finally come to understand that his own law, which he wanted, is a bad law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20472	The next item is the speech by Mr Lacner.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20504	That's right! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walch, before you come to the speaker's desk, you should really try your very good intentions – you know them: [[Abg. Walch: Here!]] Read, think, talk! – to be fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you go out here and glorify Mr. Ex-Bundesminister and disabled lawyer Herbert Haupt, this is your right. But I can remind you that there are also negatives. I can remind you, for example: The ambulance fee wasn't just a huge success. The main association reform was not... [[Abg. Scheibner: wasn't that in front of the head?]] Mr Scheibner, you must learn to listen! If you glorify main, then we also call a few negatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should be better informed!]] The main reform of the association, Mr Scheibner, was not excessive. This was simply a clean-up case and was removed by the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it was not of the head!]] Well, he was a Social Minister! [[Abg. Scheibner: That was under Sickl!]] Then the order or fast order of colleague Gaugg followed to the pension insurance institution. – As a director really no highlight, you have to say that, even the qualification has not voted. – There are also very many negatives on the side of my colleague's head. Mr Scheibner, if you have complained to the urgent speaker today about how evil we are to you, I can remind you that about eight years ago, when you were still in the opposition, there was a lot different. [[Abg. Scheibner: neither whining nor evil!]] – Welcomingly you went out, and then you explained to us how evil we are. – Eight years ago, however, this was quite different, Mr Scheibner. Your ladies and gentlemen – Stadler, Haider and you as well – went out and pulled down everything that came from us. I sometimes had the feeling – I was sitting there – that when you talked about gentlemen and ladies of us, you thought they were illiterates until recently. That's how you understood that at the time. However, this has changed rapidly, Mr Scheibner: At the moment that you held government responsibility and were a government party, everything was quite different at once! First of all, high intentions: Abstainability in post positions, almost poverty vows have already been made. However, you have hardly been in government responsibility, Mr Scheibner, there you have already been on the feed trap. They have learned a lot from the government partner who admittedly makes it a little more subtle. They weren't always that successful, you have to admit. You haven't really managed that perfectly yet, you can't. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll go to school with you!]] No, no, no, You don't have to do that anymore, that's forgivable, because next time you don't sit in here again! That's why it would be pointless! It would be a total misinvestment if I gave you some advice now! What are you doing? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can still learn something from you at the Postenschacher!]] Mr Scheibner, the fact is: Whenever one of yours is to be supplied, this job machine works. It can't happen so quickly that no posts are created: In the ASFINAG, the position of the disabled lawyer, and there are many other posts! [[Abg. Neudeck: Posts at the asfinag have always been!]] There you are really creative and innovative, you have to leave it! You're on top of it, that's really something! Mrs Haubner, you just have to say this: You're now running your ministry like a self-service shop. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You don't believe what you're saying!]] Even the newspapers – for example the “Kurier” – write that in your ministry there are conditions that are just too sensational! [[Secretary of State Dolinschek: Have you forgotten what I said before, where you sit in there?]] There are post-occupiers, there will be – of course, with tax money! – election advertising made and so on. [[Interference of Federal Minister Haubner.]] Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister, that's the way it is! Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply a fact that in the last episode – we have already noted this several times today – you have come to a purely post-purchasing party. However, you have relatively little to offer in terms of content. But that will also be one of the last actions you are still putting in this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20697	Mrs Mittermüller is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It was already in the debate today after the urgent question of clear tenor of all political groups that no one has anything against it if qualified people also have functions after their political activity. Estimated colleagues from the opposition, you should therefore finally take note of that power. Herbert Haupt, following the invitation to tender of Austria's first disabled lawyer, has become the best qualified candidate among twelve candidates. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Its current account after more than 15 years of activity as a Member here in Parliament and after more than four years as a Social Minister is looking for the same only in the disability field. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would remind you of Herbert Haupt's preliminary work on the Employment Equality Act and the introduction of the billions of disabled people. We've heard it today: 20 000 jobs were thus secured and created. [[Abg. Silhavy: It was not about the head, but about the way a job was occupied!]] I also call for the improvement of the recruitment rate of disabled people in the ministries, the promotion of the disabled in the art sector – including the main introduction – as well as the certification of communities with disabilities, the establishment of civil society offices and its performance under the Home Treaty Act and the Model Home Treaty. Under Herbert Haupt, the care allowance was introduced from birth and a care allowance increase was also made. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I also remember – and even if it is still so loud among the listeners – the fund for spending time for caring relatives, and make it clear how important it is that also caring relatives can take a vacation. That too was his performance! I remember the voluntary co-insurance of caregivers, the hardness fund, the hospice movement and the job Oscar. – All this was introduced under Herbert Haupt. Herbert Haupt has also achieved 50 percent supplement for heavy-doers, the expansion of the acute-geriatry as well as the personal assistance and training assistance, the hepatitis C-Fonds, and much more. I also remember that Herbert Haupt has received highest recognition from all sides after his retirement as an active BZÖ politician. Dear ladies and gentlemen! More than 470 human fates have gone through his hands as a disabled lawyer since January in the form of processed files. Its use is particularly valid for disabled people in all areas of daily life, and it maintains close contacts with all relevant bodies up to the disabled associations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] For a long time Herbert Haupt has also been a guarantee that we today better promote and support people with handicaps and view them as equivalent. His commitment to people with disabilities is likely to eventually result from his own painful experience with a serious illness, which even brought him to the wheelchair: He himself has experienced barriers, and I believe that he too is highly qualified for his task. Therefore, the application for withdrawal of Mag. The main thing is completely incomprehensible! We have every reason to be glad that, as a former Social Minister, he now devotes all his power, time and experience to people with disabilities and is available as the first Austrian disabled lawyer. His qualifications are undisputed. Estimated ladies Lapp and Haidlmayr: May. Head of responsibility, sense of duty and impartiality in his activity – and that for no reason! – must be rejected and the sharpest!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20803	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20830	Mr President. I don't defend anyone! Herbert Haupt doesn't need that! And I'm going to make this allegation here: You know it all the time, for you know Herbert Haupt! I have not only once experienced that people from the Social Democratic Party also go to Herbert Haupt and tell him what great work he is doing and what he is doing for people... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] – Of course, Mr Marizzi! Then you did not listen here to what the people of your group have accused Herbert Haupt of personally, and that is the terrible one. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of SPÖ) That is really immense!]] If you personally believe that Herbert Haupt is not suitable for this function, you should say this here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That you are in personal conversation – not you, but your colleagues! – says he is great, that all this is great and that he has done great work – and then turns out here and pretends to be a party politician who abuses his office and is unable to perform this function, that is really immense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Lackner, if you already... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Please be a little quiet! You could say something here at the speaker's desk afterwards! If you are already holding out Mr Walch’s saying – “read – think – speak!” – I ask you to do so yourself! If you blamed the former Member and Minister for having had the ambulance fee and the accident pension tax as a minister, then you are wrong, Mr Commissioner, because that was the predecessor who proposed this together with the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Oellinger said there was no procedure: It was your request that this function be declared, and the Minister of Social Affairs has written out this function – quite properly! And Herbert Haupt has been judged unanimously as an expert in the evaluation commission! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] These are facts! And now you can show five more times! If Mr Lacner says that the function of the disabled lawyer has only been established because of the fact that you are running post chess again and need a care, then this is the problem, because you are trying not only to discredit Herbert Haupt, but also this function! Mr Lackner. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Are Do you really think that in Austria we do not need this function of the disabled lawyer, that the disabled in Austria do not need this representation? – Then make up your conscience! We believe that this function is necessary and that Herbert Haupt, with his knowledge, experience and with his personal integrity, is very well and 100% suitable for this important function. – Take note! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If then Mr. Oellinger says you don't want to blame Herbert Haupt personally, but it could be someone who sees Herbert Haupt as a disabled lawyer and then knows he's from BZÖ, believe that's now an advantage for BZÖ: Mr Oellinger, that is what we are already doing. That's "Wonderful," so you'll reveal your concept of democracy. So, in your opinion, it is not the fact that someone abuses his office in party politics, that is, the criterion that he is unbearable in his function, no, it is sufficient to suspect that anyone in the Republic might be able to establish a link between the function and the party political opinion that he is unbearable. That is what you have said, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a strange, worrying concept of democracy. [[Abg. Oillinger: I've given you facts!]] I can imagine what you would say if it were one of your people: Freedom of expression, political rights and so on are being trampled on here! They know that it is enshrined in the Constitution that public servants can not only stand for political functions, but that they even have time to exercise this office. In other words, it is even desirable that public officials separate their duties from party political membership. And this is it, ladies and gentlemen: Herbert Haupt will be like everyone else, whether this is the President of the Federal Republic, whether it is a popular attorney or anyone else, of course, in his political opinion. But he has the obligation, just as any other member of the staff – and there you can be sure with him – that this party political opinion, his attitude will have no influence on his exercise of office. That's it, and no other border is relevant here. You should really consider whether it is worth it, with this party-political spectacle you provide here, discrediting the office of this disabled lawyer.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20939	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, on the basis of your last actual correction, I would like to remind you: An actual correction shall begin with the reproduction of the claim to be corrected and shall be compared to the corrected case-law. – I’m trying to pay attention to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e20966	Mr President. Mr Scheibner has repeatedly claimed that Herbert Haupt would have been elected unanimously after a hearing. – This statement is incorrect! There were no hearings! No one was invited except Herbert Haupt; Ms Haubner only knows all other applicants about the applications. There was no hearing, and all eleven other candidates were never invited!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21007	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report in 1361 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[21:03:40]] 7. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-171 d.a.) of the Court of Auditors, 2005/9 series (1399 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21052	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21080	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and BZÖ, if you do not just prefer the football game to the Court of Auditors' reports! I would just like to draw your attention to the following: Before you thank the Court of Auditors, the officials, the President, once again, you should consider whether you take the Court of Auditors' reports, the results, the findings, the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. Example e-card: You don't care about the critical report. It is celebrated as a world sensation. Example Art History Museum, already mentioned today: They're saying everything's palette. Or if the Court of Auditors calls for directives on government advertising, this obviously does not interest anyone of yours. If we are already on the basics, a few words on the Standing Subcommittee, on the subject of money discounts and e-cards. This is not even a pamphlet. I've got to say, If it is clear that a very critical opinion exists by Professor Dr. Rephan, and you let it be used with a sentence, namely that such an opinion has been commissioned, and with no word mentioning that it criticises in soil and soil what the Minister and you have done to the money discounts in further succession, then that speaks for itself. In this series, Mr Gahr argues: You have also submitted an illegal application for the examination of financial market supervision, as you call it. And you have even managed to praise the Minister of Finance Grasser in this request, which is really incredible. As I said, This application is illegal to business rules. The desire of Molterer, colleagues and colleagues was raised on 5 May. ==References====External links== Let us take a look at Zägernitz, which is the comment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is the authority!]] Mr. Regler, what does the Commentary on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council of Werner Zögernitz say to us? – Another request is “allowable only if the Subcommittee has returned a report to the RH Committee on the basis of a previous request” (§ 32e para. 4 GOG). [[Abg. May. Controller: We decided!]] I'm sorry, Mr. Regler, but that didn't happen at 4:25 p.m. on 5. April, and that is why this request is illegal to business regulations. [[Abg. May. Controller: We have decided the report!]] What doesn't make the whole thing charming: Zägernitz, who at the same time, should anyone not know that ÖVP is KlubSecretary, says of course: The ÖVP requirement is in conformity with business rules. – So how would you like it? As a commentary or as an ÖVP secretary? [[The speaker holds two papers in height.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I'm very sorry, but You only need to listen and read, it is crystal clear what the Rules of Procedure commenter Zehrernitz says about this. [[Abg. May. Controller: I have made the request, we have decided!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Mrs Brinek, you have very little knowledge of these things, I am afraid otherwise you would not be able to express yourself that way. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But no, I know the Zägernitz!]] Of course, you wanted to prevent a request to review the whole of the fighter aircraft insanity you are responsible for. It is the question of whether this is the climax or the low point, as you are dealing with the right of interconnection, with democratic control. It is well known that you simply do not answer written parliamentary requests – the Federal Chancellor is very distinguished here, the Vice-Chancellor is outstanding here – or that, in urgent inquiries, the government bank claims the smooth untruth. Minister of Finance Grasser is a typical example of this. [[Abg. Ellwall: The best example is you yourself!]] Or: The sharpest criticism of the Court of Auditors, such as the e-card, is re-interpreted in praise. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry are always rejected. Parliamentary agreements are breaking; Mrs Baumgartner would be an example here. Remove State enterprises It is by majority decisions of control, and you are also going to draw up a right which in itself belongs to a quarter of the Members of the National Council, otherwise it would not be so defined in the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, summa summarum is a shame, and you speculate that this is hidden from the population. As far as the details are concerned, your bill might even go up. These very fine demarcations of the Rules of Procedure, which you break on such occasions, are largely unknown to the population. [[Abg. May. Controller: It won't be broken! We do not break any rules of procedure!]] However: The population has a very, very fine sense of democratic control and the rule of law – and this, ladies and gentlemen, will harm you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21226	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller on word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21250	Mr President. High house! My predecessor Herbs claimed that we had broken the Rules of Procedure because the new request for examination should only be approved if the previous one was completed by the Subcommittee. I am in fact correcting the fact that I myself have made the request to take note of the Subcommittee's report. The subcommittee has decided to do so, and it was only after that that the request for examination of the ÖVP was made.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21281	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21302	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Colleagues As has been so often, herbs have once again attacked all the subject areas in a general speech, he has not spoken on the agenda at all. His accusations are known, they are actually no longer interesting for the media. And with that, I believe, it is now time for us to discuss the Court of Auditors' reports and not to address the accusations made by my colleague Herb. The Court of Auditors has kept an eye on the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, and this Court of Auditors report is an example of responding quickly and immediately to the Court of Auditors report. There's been a clear order. The Court of Auditors has identified shortcomings in the organisational structure and has made clear recommendations. I must say that this report is very well organized, there are clearly eight points which the Court of Auditors has identified as improvements and suggestions. However, it may also be noted that these points have just been found in the team04 project and many things have already been implemented. This report also shows the extent to which an increase in public administration efficiency can help to reduce costs and reduce double tracking. One of the eight points concerns the organisational defects in the division of the security guard Salzburg. These organisational failures, as shown in the Court's report, have already been taken into account in the team04. Secondly, It has been shown that 23 security guards have been employed outside the training system, and the Court of Auditors has identified optimising possibilities of €763,000. These optimizations were implemented with team04: more local officials, fewer officials in the administration. The next one was the diversity of the car brands, I think it was more than 20 that was associated with high administrative costs and follow-up costs. The BMI has announced that in the future, one will try to operate more efficiently and focus the car brands on fewer types and brands. The Next were the additional allowances for official opinions carried out during the service period. Here, the Minister of State Prokop in the Committee has clearly stated that the next Novelle driving licence will provide that these official medical advices will be made very well during the service period and will no longer have to be compensated for by 25 percent. The next point is the actual cost per day of detention. Here the Court of Auditors has found that no recalculation to the local authorities is possible. This was taken up by the BMI and in the meantime the actual costs were raised. The integrated execution management has not been implemented. Here the Court of Auditors has found that digital data collection should be implemented. The BMI will take care of this. The accident data storage is one of the points in this Court of Auditors report on which there are different opinions between the Court of Auditors and the BMI. The Court of Auditors says that it should be implemented to the full for reasons of road safety. On the other hand, the BMI considers that there is no need for the comprehensive introduction of the accident data storage due to the faster decommissioning of vehicles and shorter intervals by the leasing models. The last point was to serve the inmates of the police station. Here, of course, it would be ideal for the Salzburg judicial body as a partner. would operate, but it is currently not possible for the Salzburg judicial centre to relocate all inmates of the police station. In summary, this 2004 report can be read as follows: Many suggestions and recommendations have already been made by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has made a significant contribution to the fact that many points have been found and implemented in the team04 project. Much has been moved in the field of safety. There are current threats, new requirements and challenges, but in total, I believe, one can also say in this context that Austria is a safe country and that it is important for the Court of Auditors to monitor public administration accordingly and show shortcomings in order to prevent public administration from working efficiently and cost-effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21381	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21403	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! In rare agreement, I can agree with the previous speaker on the presentation of the report. There was little to no controversy in the committee, everything was right, everything was beautiful. I should also like to thank the Court of Auditors, which has been expressed indirectly for the necessary and proper work. On the other hand, my colleague, Mr Herbe, has raised an uninteresting issue here. It is common all day long to discuss only in the broadest sense “art-related”, if at all, and so I can connect with the use of the afternoon – and thus perhaps even more closely on the subject – and also to look at it more closely with regard to the Court of Auditors Committee and the Standing Subcommittee established there. Of course, all Members of this House can do everything possible, which is no longer the subject for me, but this is a request for an examination that we will be discussing shortly. Today we have been negotiating all day, whether we can meet tomorrow after the end of the house sitting. One is constantly confronted with this, namely the following wish of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – at least 45 Members or a little more must have found themselves signing this –: In view of the various banking scandals – and be it that the BAWAG scandal is the largest – you are not too bad, too unskillful, or to imagine – I do not know how to call it – to go here and to light this house with a test request, which in the case of the BAWAG crisis should be first or only the years 1994/95 to 1999, and for the time from 2000 onwards you have found a very questionable formulation. I'm going to the test item first. Do you know that you can in principle only check the operation of the financial market supervision or its predecessors and not a private bank?- Oh, my God! And not a permanent subcommittee at all! In view of the fact that you have been leading us for five years, this committee is in fact not allowed to do anything. That was your line! And I will be happy to see from tomorrow evening what possible effects this committee will suddenly have on you thanks to your wonderful majority. That's what I'm going to look at. Need to be provided with the test orders But you can't believe you can roam around in the BAWAG. From me we do that – there I am still excited. I am also eager to see how financial market supervision will in this case be removed from its otherwise relatively strict obligations of confidentiality. We'll make all of this a precedent. So you're not happy too early! – On the other hand, I am interested in it myself, Mr Hornek, so that the possibilities of this committee are extended and the provisions are interpreted in such a way that something can be brought together there. But: You obviously have in the event that, in the Committee, perhaps some are actually sitting and in the course of this investigation, they want to build something up, in so far as the audit order has experienced a further, truly relevant supplementary formulation in the last half sentence: As of the year 2000, it will also be examined and examined, but only more in the light of the fact that at that time a Finance Minister began to work, who immediately wanted to introduce the best of all financial market supervisors. On this occasion, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this was an act of Parliament, in parts with constitutional provisions, and not an act of the Minister of Finance. It is a shame for the Klubobmann Molterer, who is at the very heart of this request, to pretend that a finance minister would need something to be decided here. This is exclusively Parliament's competence! Such a perplexing request is only to change your political change to election here, because this committee is limited to exactly half a year, as you know. [[Abg. Hornek: That was everyone until now!]] Yes, Mr. President! [[Abg. Hornek: Don't blow yourself up like that!]] And then let's look at what happened from the year 2000. The Minister of Finance and no one else is responsible for financial market supervision and its predecessors. By the way – aproposing predecessor –: Until financial market supervision was introduced as such with this name, banking supervision had been separated, at that time still under the full responsibility of the Ministry – now it is a partial autonomous authority –, that is, this blessed finance minister. [[Abg. Hornek: Whoever comes too late punishes the story!]] And you want to advance with such a ridiculous formulation that we investigate that too?- Oh, my God! – But that’s where we’ll take a line through the bill! Of course, from the year 2000, it is also necessary to examine what financial market supervision has done or not, and what Mr Finanzminister has done, or not – especially in view of the fact that he himself was originally famous to have the BAWAG's audit team, so to speak. But that was a different connection. Then comes the note bank report, and then it literally stands in there, that if you want to, there are shops in the Caribbean; a certain formulation was used in this test report. Here, in reply to your urgent question, the Minister of Finance has almost literally reflected these wordings from this bank audit report, which he himself has prompted, and has just added a no in the front. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Yes, sure! That's crazy!]] So there was the statement of Grasser here: Caribbean operations have not been published in the test report. - I'm going to kiss that. But if you look at it literally, it's much more questionable. You know what? He has again dizzyed Parliament from the top to the bottom, for it is absolutely unthinkable that he does not read his reports, which he himself commissions! And in this cheap and tedious way you want to take it out of the test! - I can't do that! [[Abg. Hornek: Did you sleep the whole problem of the last few days?]] - Sorry! [[Abg. Hornek: Did you sleep everything? – Don’t be evil with me!]] What's that got to do with it? Your audit requirements have been introduced weeks ago, and this has the added that the Minister of Finance has set up the Financial Markets Supervision from 2000 onwards and that this situation may be illuminated. I'll tell you: Please explain what the supervision and Mr Grasser have done in the last five years! Let's get to another point: What about the Hypo Alpe-Adria? What was it? Who are the state commissioners sitting all over the banks, where there are black bank scandals, by the way? - The one that sends the grass! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, exactly!]] Who else? And where do they come from? – Samt and very much from his cabinet. Not all; but all who were in the cabinet sit there somewhere! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's how it looks!]] They don't have the ability to do that! Talk to the Financial Market Supervisory Board: They have long wanted a fit-and-proper test not only for the Supervisory Boards, but for your party friends who let you drive around the area! - And that's what we should look at. [[Abg. Hornek: This is arrogance to the no longer going!]] And you will not be able to escape from this examination that a finance minister would have done anything that is not even his competence. But it may also be going backwards at this point. One thing cannot be: that we are a body which, as we know, is a body of inquiry – you have downgraded it over the years to something else – of Parliament, making it an organ of sanctification of your hypocrites policy. [[Abg. Hornek: Have you slept the last few days, Mr. Colleague? Did you sleep that?]] That's not going to happen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's ridiculous!]] This is actually the most beautiful conclusion: Go inside and take a look at this! The fact that you are responsible for the control emergency that prevails here is nothing new. But that you are also sending up an investigation tool of the National Council in order to acquit others like Mr Finanzminister, who, up to and including both ears in the swamp, is inside for any particularly positive means of action with an announcement and a start, you can do this with someone else! [[Abg. May. Regulator: Now we're to blame! Now we're still in debt at the BAWAG scandal, gal?]] And we're going to make ourselves a referee here, because we haven't been involved in these things until now. You're sitting in the middle of the mud of the bank scandals!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21635	The next item is the report by Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21656	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! It is quite amusing that Mr Kogler already intends to express himself here as the criminal defender for the BAWAG problem. I am really looking forward to the subcommittee, because it will then become quite funny, because it seems that it is not a special scandal that a bank, when it is calculated together, will destroy around €1.7 billion once and then come to a possible complaint over 1.2 billion, whereas – because the favorite thing of my colleague Herb has wings and flies and calls himself Eurofighter and seems to be the ruin of the Republic – the Eurofighter with his purchase price almost represents a cheap product. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not funny at all!]] As far as colleagues are concerned, herbs: We should actually talk about the Court of Auditors report, Volume 9. Colleagues with their selective perception stand out here, quoting the three to four test reports that he has flown at least once superficially – for if one listens to his statements about the Eurofighter just then one has to say that the things he gives of himself really do not stand out by special expertise. Colleagues, perhaps you will read the agenda and the things that really are about to be discussed! Then we could enter into a constructive work. But we both know that's not your goal at all. On the area of the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg: Mr Gahr has at least once tried to explain what this is all about. I do not want to go into the content of this review report any more, but only to note that what the Court of Auditors should actually do as the institution of the National Council, namely carry out an examination, which should then have a result, should then be assessed and this result should be drawn from this outcome, has happened here: The Ministry of the Interior has implemented the recommendations as far as possible from its area. Of course, the team04 or the combination of the wadding bodies has been positive in terms of the problem of double use. And the Federal Minister also assured us in the Committee that the other criticism points, except those concerning this food, have been dealt with. That is why we can say: This should be the work of the Court of Auditors, and this is also the task of the Court of Auditors to draw up such points, and this should then be done, and the government will have the obligation to make the best possible work. However, the Court of Auditors or its reports should not serve to raise the subject matter on a permanent basis only from a populist motivation, which has long been set out by the results of the Court of Auditors and which have also been assessed and incorporated into the opinions of the Ministries, because it is precisely this way of doing so that the Court of Auditors' task and is not really worthy of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21693	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21714	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gahr said that security policy has been changed in this country and the organisation of the team04 has moved a lot. – I can’t see anything about this miraculous increase that should have taken place with the police in the grates, for if, for example, the systemized target is now 256 officials in the Danube City and 186 are actually on the street, then nothing can be seen about the implementation of this criticism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the personnel development, which is indicated here at the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, is concerned, it can also be seen that the number has dropped year after year: from 551 policemen in 2000 to 489 officials in 2004. But even more dramatic is the decline in criminal service with a minus of 28 percent. And if you look at the report on crime prevention and criminal police advice, you can read in it that the crime has increased enormously, namely, Austria by 23 percent, and the number of officials has fallen while the investigation has also fallen by 10 percent. And this is a devastating testimony of black and blue security policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Property crimes increased by 26 percent in Austria from 2001 to 2004. However, the Court of Auditors also refers to the damage caused by this increase in property offences, which increased by 73 percent. If all the measures proposed in the Court of Auditors' report were implemented, the damage could be greatly limited. Your policy, however, looks different. In the 2006 budget there was again a drop in police officers: 902 planning posts were saved, and in total, 3,000 policemen were missing in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, either you are not willing or unable to do something about this problem, in any case this is very negligent, and the Austrians are aware of this. And you hear it on the street, you don't need a survey: This policy is not being blamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21769	Mr Steindl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21790	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Financiary State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we treat the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg as one of the topics of this Court of Auditors report. My colleague Hermann Gahrhat has essentially carried out the recommendations to be made; they were mostly minor shortcomings, which were identified, and the Federal Ministry of the Interior has also followed the recommendations accordingly. However, I would like to deal with the content of the matter today with the fact that Mr Herb's intervention into the ÖVP, particularly our clubman, claimed that this would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, regarding the submission of the request for examination by the Subcommittee. It should be noted that the question of the date of submission as a request was also raised by the SPÖ on 19 July. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: But that's not true!]] Of course that's true! [[Abg. Hornek: Sure it's true, herbs!]] So you chose the same procedure at the time, and it is therefore irrelevant if you ask us today or our clubman that we also choose a similar procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Chairman Kogler has not taken note of it – that is the difference!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's different!]] - No! In addition, as the citation of the Rules of Procedure assumed that the last meeting of this Subcommittee could also be held on the last day of this six-month period, which is also in line with the practice of the Directorate of Parliament, it is clear that in such a case the reporting would coincide with the end of the meeting. Everything else would be an undue reduction in time. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is the right bend that you quote there!]] – No, that’s not a legal bend! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Left bend!]] They did the same, and in addition this issue was also debated in the Presidential Assembly for a long time, and a common protocol was also drawn up here, which I can essentially quote here: 'As in the present case, with the vote of the rapporteur at the Standing Subcommittee meeting on 5 May, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. On 4 April 2006 before 4:25 p.m., the content of the consultation was therefore not included in the earlier request for implementation.’ [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Your Zägernitz says exactly the opposite!]] ‘The position of a new request was thus admissible from that date onward.’ [[Abg. May. Controller: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should all do parliamentary work with the same instruments and not say, if you just fit, that: No, that's actually unacceptable! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You should tell President Khol that once as far as... equality is concerned!]] However, while the Rules of Procedure are being used accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21936	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e21957	Mr President. High house! I would like to deal with that part of the Court of Auditors' report on the subject of the Medical University of Graz. Now you can say that there is some Graz-specific,... [[Abg. Faul: This is the next report!]] The next report, yes. [[Abg. Faul: He's in the next item on the agenda! - You're a little early!]] Oh! – I’ll do it anyway, because I’ve been so reported as a speaker. The Court of Auditors will examine this and, hopefully, it will be for good. - Okay. The decisive officials of the resort are present, so that should not be a problem. I think there are a lot of Graz-specific, but that's the minority. It is crucial to note what the Court of Auditors said at the outset: Cost neutrality as the principle of a law – or as a floscle, if you want to critically say it – is not possible. It's sober, but it's not banal. And it also says: it is not comprehensible. – That is, the solution of the Faculty of Medicine from the entire association of universities has caused more costs. It was promised that these additional costs will be reimbursed. This has only happened in part. How much this part was, the spirits – the opposition and the government – are fighting about it, which is commonplace. But what's the consequences? – You should look at how you came to this decision. Now I don't report from a private conversation, but from an official discussion with the Federal Minister, in which I have made it clear to her that the positions are usually international in such a way that the medical faculties are part of a university and everything else – an own medical university – is an exception to the rule internationally. This does not matter – one needs the word “internationality” rather with “world class”, whether it is true or not – but it has reasons, and if one looks at it, then one finds that this division was ultimately justified by the ministry: We cannot make any exceptions in the new Law for individual faculties, we may not want to replace any more faculties and we want to replace them with departments and therefore have the special provisions in medicine that have been valid for years and have made sense – because medicine has, besides research, teaching and administration, the task of health care, and thus has a unique feature to formulate it in this way at the universities; that is now not something noble, but only something atypical, so as not to go down in the self praise of the physicians – no longer maintain it. That had its reasons. Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer refused to do so, so the faculties were actually forced to plead for their own university. They didn't want it. Federal Minister Gehrer also told me – and this is already politically interesting – that there have been two people from my most holy hometown of Innsbruck, who have put this up to her and made her tasty. One of these two persons was the one who is very prominent in a report of the Court of Auditors: the Board of Directors of the Institute of Hygiene, who was at the same time the head of the Bacteriological Investigation Institute Innsbruck and was critical, rightly critical, and, in this dual function, I am now saying: perhaps a bit rough, for the Court of Auditors. One unique thing was that this boss could afford to buy this bacterial research facility with his private money to keep his profits up to the level they were before. So, anyway, some things have happened, and I think that medicine at all three universities needs a more thorough examination than it has been done in this individual investigation. One example, which I consider to be worth mentioning: Medicine already accounts for more than 40 percent of the total cost of all universities, but hardly one percent of the staff involved in the business classification of the relevant department deals with this issue or may deal with it. I think that's grossly negligent! The March, that the Redemption of the Faculty of Medicine has strengthened the position towards the carrier, I think is simply wrong. I can no longer list what I know about shortcomings in the Court of Auditors' report, but I would like to take the opportunity to present it to you personally, for the benefit of the ministry, not to the detriment of medicine, but also to the benefit of the ministry. If I think what money is spent there without cooperation agreements with the countries and the institutions, then I have to say that is already at the limit of tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22010	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22031	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I do not think it is to blame Members of the Green Forest for preferring an audit result which is only called under the next item on the agenda. In the last two months, the Court of Auditors has had a total of 10 reports with 36 audits. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in particular the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal Today's agenda contains a total of three reports with 15 audit results. I hope that you will understand this after two reports have been taken out so far, that I would like to mention some reports in particular with regard to the importance of this. One of the reports addressed, which was also discussed in the Committee, concerns the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, where it is very positive that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been taken up and implemented to the greatest extent. It should also be noted in this context that by implementing the police reform with 1. Inefficient structures have been eliminated at the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg in July 2005 by bringing together the guards of the Gendarmerie and the police. However, I would also like to point out that, especially with regard to the importance of security, the Court of Auditors will have to carry out a full review of this area and, in particular, the implementation of the police reform with regard to the building-up organisation and, of course, this is a new approach from the Court of Auditors, the review of whether the promised recommendations of the Court of Auditors have actually been implemented. One point that is of particular importance – and this is also to be mentioned repeatedly in connection with security – is the non-training use of executive officials. Here is exactly the example of Salzburg, which savings effects can be achieved. It is true that only through the conversion of executive planning posts into administrative planning posts, as is possible at the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, can a savings potential of € 760 000 be achieved and, in addition, by repatriating – also addressed by the honourable Member Gahr – 23 security guards in the executive foreign service can save the basic training for new staff. This represents an amount of €1,96 million for 23 staff. – So certainly an area in which one must continue to work and where it is appropriate to invest in security as well as to actually use the people in executive foreign service. This leads me to another audit of the Court of Auditors which has affected the prevention of crime and criminal police deliberations. This too has been mentioned briefly by the honourable Member, Mr Becher. I also believe that an area of economic importance and where massive savings can be made is also an area where action is being taken. I would also like to point out that the reduction of damage caused by theft and robberies to the level of 2001 alone would make it possible to save € 180 million. The Court of Auditors has also presented here, in accordance with its advisory approach and the approach to learn from examinations and to carry on in such a way that one can advise and contribute to a set of measures, how one can go in the direction to carry out prevention and to be harmfully minimizing. I may ask you to look at this more closely in the report, because I believe that implementing these recommendations would bring a great deal to bear in this area, even in the interests of security. Another aspect has not yet been addressed, but it is therefore important: We have also examined the collection of research funding relevant data. And it has just shown itself in this area how important it would be, The Court of Auditors' request to introduce an Austrian funding database. If you look at this funding database, you can see that there is no IT-supported research funding database in the area of the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture and the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, which covers all promoters as such. In addition, the data are only collected in sub-areas. This, of course, leads to the fact that unwanted multi-funding is not excluded and, accordingly, funding is not used as it can be used at all, one would have this overview. For this reason, I believe that it would be necessary to actually put in place measures here in order to address these existing weaknesses. It was also true that we do not have a comprehensive survey of research funding data between the federal government and countries. There is no Austrian-wide overall view by funded projects or promoters. For this reason, it would be appropriate to set up a support database specifically in the area of efficiency – the Styria has been addressed today. It is also worth mentioning when you look at the funding landscape, that there is no uniform concept of support. There are different provisions on research funding and numerous parallel surveys of research funding data. The collection of research projects, as well as the respective research promoter, is carried out decentrally and by the funding bodies according to different criteria. – This is certainly a point to be taken off. Moreover, funding is also being provided by the EU, and I believe that an overall review is needed to ensure that the Austrian funding system is designed efficiently in the long term. In this context, I should like to point out that in its 2004 activity report, the Court of Auditors has set out guidelines and fundamental recommendations for support objectives, promotion directives and funding decisions. Implementation of these recommendations would certainly lead to a more efficient use of resources. However, I would also like to point out here, with regard to the balance between the recommendations and the Court of Auditors' procedure, that measures have already been taken in this direction, in addition to improving the reporting system on research activities and the introduction of a federal research project database. In addition, it is also expected that the newly founded Austrian Research Funding Society will provide easier structures, greater transparency and enhanced coordination. It is also positive that this society has been included in the work programme to establish a common research and technology development database. Finally, I would like to point out something because this is an aspect that has both positive and negative examples. That's that with 1. In July 2002 the Competition Act entered into force, or the amendment to the Cartel Act 1988, where the competitive structure in Austria has also been modernised and recommendations of the OECD and the EU have been implemented. At the same time, however, it should be noted that there are parallel structures in this area between the Federal Competition Authority and the Bundeskartellanwalt that there are still rules which are not international Practices are consistent, and in addition, that in addition to the law-free Federal Competition Authority and the Federal Cartel Advocate-General, other authorities also set up supervisory or regulatory measures, which does not fully implement the one-stop-shop principle, which is desired, for the customer. In other words, one area where the Court of Auditors considers it necessary that the activities of the two areas, namely the Federal Competition Authority and the Federal Cartel Officer on the one hand, be coordinated together, in addition to the need for cooperation and, last but not least, to develop key figures and indicators that go in one direction in order to maintain and shape the competition or the economic location of Austria in such a way that it is competitive. I hope that I have not held you for too long with my remarks, but I believe that there are points that are positive in the reports, which have also led to improvements, modernisations and savings in the activities of the Court of Auditors, and there are very likely points where further work should be carried out with a view to improving efficiency, in particular with a view to setting up a uniform funding database. I believe that this would serve everyone, and one could actually achieve the objective that the promoter has at least the same overview as the promoter in order to ensure transparency and efficient use of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22119	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22140	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The Court of Auditors took place in the time of 19. ==References== ==References====External links== On 9 October 2004, the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg carried out an examination of the conduct and, in its outcome, came up with the following recommendations. The requirement to redesign the organizational structure of the security guard for an appropriate evaluation was met in the course of the assembly of the guard “team04”. This recommendation has been taken into account in project work and a review and evaluation of implementation is also envisaged. A further recommendation by the Court of Auditors on the maintenance of the safety executive fleet was implemented with the introduction of a new leasing model. In the future, Hiebei is intended to purchase only vehicles with complex structures, such as radar equipment, video equipment or sub-assemblies, which must be maintained at the expense of the BMI in police workshops or in brand workshops. A recommendation from the Court of Auditors was: According to § 23 para. 2 of the driving licence health regulation to review the remuneration of official opinions of the official doctors of the local authorities for a double remuneration, has been taken up and, based on the Court's views, the next revision of the driving licence health regulation will be realized in the absence of the double remuneration of official medical advice. The suggestion to implement the “Integrated Executive Management” project has also been followed immediately. With the installation of this project, the digitalized single-time recording of all the people stopped and the availability in the network network network across Austria will be ensured with security portals for the security and tourism authorities as well as in national police commissions. With regard to the suggestion of the Court of Auditors to have the inmates of the Police Centre fully supplied with meals by the nearby Salzburg Justice Centre, it should be noted that the Police Directorate has already tried to reach a contract with the Salzburg Justice Centre. However, the capacity of the judicial body is currently too low and the supply too flexible to respond to the respective nutritional needs of the inmates of the police centre. However, further discussions on this subject will be held in the course of the enlargement and reconstruction of the cuisine of the judicial body. In summary, we have once again an example of how seriously the ministries are taking the Court of Auditors' recommendations and are always trying to comply with these recommendations in the interest of the people as soon as possible and to implement them.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22191	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22213	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After previous speakers have referred to the report on the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg several times, I now make a few comments. The report, as I believe, is another element of an ever-longer list of mismanagement and the waste of tax money of this Federal Government. If the institution concerned has a rather smaller dimension compared with many other spectacular waste disposal actions of the government, this shows very clearly where this Federal Government is developing public administration. The Court's criticism also shows that the former shooting star of ÖVP, Minister Strasser, did not control his ministry. The examples have been mentioned several times, as mentioned earlier, on the use of the well-trained security guards, who are used for simple activities, damage € 760 000, or the inconsistency of the inmates of the police centre, about €77 000 a year. It also fits in the picture that the ministry does not know and therefore does not charge the actual costs per day of detention. It is also significant that the Committee has repeatedly asked the Federal Ministers about this point and has also given them answers on a number of occasions, but in each case quite contrary answers. Damage from this point € 960 000. Also the example of the fleet: 78 motor vehicles consisting of 11 brands and 24 types – a situation that is economically non-administrable. On the basis of these examples, it is probably frightening how indifferent this government is dealing with tax money, and I think the government would be well advised to take less care of postal chess and more about its actual tasks. I think the population has a right to that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22258	Mr Pirklhuber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22279	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to address an aspect of the report that you have not so far presented in your speech but which is relevant to the examination of AMA Marketing GmbH. I really find this part of the report very, very exciting, because it is the first examination of AMA Marketing GmbH at all. Brief explanation: AMA Marketing GmbH is responsible for agricultural marketing in Austria and has a substantial amount of resources to be supplied to the AMA by farmers or processors through marketing. There has been an intense dispute over these contributions for years, at the latest since 1999. There are companies in the meat sector that were not willing to pay these contributions. And there are procedures under way, you have also well described this in the report, at the Administrative Court or at the European Court of Justice. In part, there are already decisions, partly not yet, so at least in the report it is so presented. It is rightly pointed out that the AMA has to make provisions in order to make provision here if these recoveries are not successful and these companies are exempt from these contributions. It is also a political problem because it threatens the entire marketing activity of the AMA. In essence, a central criticism was that the current orientation of the AMA is not a Community-compliant application of domestic products for the domestic and also for the foreign market and therefore a novelle of this § 21a is urgently needed. So this is a clear result of the report. There is already a novel, a proposal for a novel to the AMA law in a bundle of other agricultural laws, the assessment period has ended on Monday. In this House, we will discuss these issues very strongly. But it is interesting that the Court of Auditors' criticism has really revealed incredible things in some of the key points, namely that the undertakings that the AMA seal, I suppose, can use, can decide on the drawing of samples themselves. The AMA has stood up and said we have the best quality assurance system. I remember many debates: Yeah, we're doing the best controls! And now, on this report, we note that not even the AMA organs can draw the samples, but the companies themselves can select the samples. This does not meet any standard in a quality assurance at all. I'm a little surprised at the – I don't want to say harmonizing, but about the relatively objective formulation. I would have expected the report to be clearly formulated, this is not in line with quality assurance systems, as they are on the market and as they are usual in practice. They do not comply with certification standards. It refers briefly to European standard 45011. The controls are partly ineffective, which is also cited directly. It is particularly relevant within the marketing framework that the awarding practice of the AMA is completely in transparent and not in accordance with federal law. The AMA awards about one third of the contracts without complying with the federal procurement rules. This is not a small thing, which is literally in the report. I thank the Court of Auditors for this clarity. It is clear that here, obviously – and I suspect this now – certain undertakings are simply selected because they, whom always, pleasant or because they provide certain services exclusively or for additional – you can suspect – things can or should be used. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Another point is the matter with the tax. It is true that the AMA has revenue and is entitled to deduct VAT. The Court of Auditors' report says that it is actually not understandable why VAT is not delivered from the revenue. It is interesting that the Court of Auditors could not understand the basis on which this is regulated. I have read it this way, perhaps you will make it clear again, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that was so visible to us. A point that has been a matter for us for years is also raised by the Court of Auditors, namely that the marketing contributions from the individual sectors could only be reused for these sectors, i.e. revenue from the meat sector could only be used again for meat advertising. And that contradicts certain recommendations regarding health and effectiveness. Especially in the bio sector, we have been discussing for years that it would be useful – at present in the law, correctly, Mr Molterer – to make a legislative change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer]] It also says to the Ministry that there is a need for a change to the AMA law here, and I expect an appropriate presentation shortly. Finally – this should not be turned under the table –: There are a number of other findings, and here I really miss the clarity of these statements. It is formulated that there are unclear agreements between the AMA parent company and the AMA marketing company. Please explain what the ambiguities between these organizations exist in? The salaries of the Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board fees were also examined. I would also ask for clarity as to how high these references are, because it is quite relevant and it should come to the table for what amounts are actually paid for. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22350	Mrs Schönpass. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22371	Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Government is moving forward with a bad example, you must not be surprised, even if the subordinate departments are not well managed. On the example of the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, the Court of Auditors highlights some symptomatic aspects in dealing with public funds, such as inefficient administrative structures, inefficient human resources use and savings in the wrong places. I would like to give a specific example of the savings. Together with the Evangelische Hilfwerk, the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg has developed a concept for an open execution. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what we've heard!]] This open-ended execution would bring a significant improvement in the detention conditions for pushers. According to the Court of Auditors, however, this proposal has not yet been implemented in the absence of sufficient budget resources. The budget deficit on such an important issue as decent detention conditions is ultimately with the Federal Minister for the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, let me speak briefly to the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. Here again, the Court of Auditors has found shortcomings typical of the government work of this Federal Government. In the field of public relations, for example, the Federal Procurement Act was completely ignored. For public work, the Ministry of Health and Women spent around €2 million between 2001 and 2003. Some €581,000 of it could have been saved for taxpayers, because this amount was paid to a company to turn advertisements on daily newspapers. Switching ads is usually a task that can and should be done by an internal press office. The Court of Auditors report provides examples of more meaningful investments within the Ministry. A well thought-out overall approach to health promotion measures is lacking in scope, as is a functional internal revision in the health sector. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report and excellent work, but, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, who are so carelessly dealing with public funds and who are so uncoordinated in their place of business, have not deserved the trust of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22421	The next speaker is Mr Christ. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22442	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In its criticism of the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg, the Court of Auditors has criticised the training of security guards and the inadequate IT equipment or the abolition of accident data storage in service vehicles by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, although in recent years these data storage has achieved a significant improvement in traffic and operational security. The extreme rise in theft and robberies with a damage of around €420 million shows once again the missing presence of executive officials, already beginning in the area of crime prevention. And this also applies to the whole of Austria, as well as undoubtedly to the fact that there is a significant increase in property offences and at the same time a significant decrease in the investigation rate. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no frauds about statistics, and changing control parameters does not help either. It is a fact that everything turns to the worse. Ladies and gentlemen, truly incredible and a special treatise and a further proof of unbridled and unhindered post-chachers is the personnel policy in the re-exhibition of posts, and here in particular at one in the Federal Police Directorate Salzburg. The fact that new posts are to be occupied in the pooling of areas and organisational units is not really an unusual thing. If so, my Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP has their fingers in play, then, as so often, it becomes a scandal. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Salzburg Police Director proposes a very reliable, highly experienced and also the best-qualified official for a senior administrative post. Since it does not fit into the colouring game of the ÖVP, there is an injunction from the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, to the police director, to prefer another, color better fit to the suggested one. The staff representation has nothing against it, it is still kindly mentioned. – No, if the black is dominated. Black on white, ladies and gentlemen, in a parliamentary question by Mr Jacky Maier and in the subsequent reply by the Minister for the Interior. Officials, ladies and gentlemen, who say the truth – unfortunately, this is a sad realization of the last years of this federal government – are being moved. If you don't notice, you'll be bullied and, if you're just going, sent to the desert, regardless of whether you're highly qualified or experienced for a long time. If the color isn't right, it doesn't matter. Objectivity and fairness according to the taste of the ÖVP, that is contemptible. You got the first invoice at the personnel representation elections and the second one will follow in autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22500	The last speaker is Mr Reheis. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22521	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Expensive members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I think that sometimes it would be depressing for the staff of the Court of Auditors to make recommendations and to know, in fact, that what has really been excellently prepared in the report is fully taken note of, but more is not happening. If I look at the report – I will come back to the AMA again very briefly – as far as procurement is concerned and the procedures for the procurement of products are concerned, we can also recognise that: Failure to comply with the procurement directives, non-compliance with the federal procurement directives and procedures, personnel decisions, tender procedures, everything is actually carried out through several reports from the Court of Auditors, and it remains only that the recommendation is in there, but in principle it is not recognized that something is happening. As a representative of a community, I say: If a community does not comply with the procurement directives, it is very likely to be asked by the companies to check out, of course, but at the federal level, it seems to be no criterion, there is nothing happening. If one sees that the Court of Auditors in the case of five out of 16 audited procurement cases finds that the AMA marketing includes only selected companies for presentation and fails to carry out the public notice provided for in the procurement rules, that only one-year contracts have been made on a case-by-case basis, although much longer-term advertising measures and management requirements provide for three-year contracts, that is incomprehensible. The Court of Auditors is right to recommend that this be suspended, but in the reports it always remains with the recommendation, and therefore – as I said, I – it is depressing or hopefully not, because the statements and the work of the Court of Auditors are very good. As regards the conclusion of the contracts, it is also noted that the competition procedure has been back five or six years and, in one case, the AMA marketing, without making a new offer comparison, has resorted to a bidder that has been selected as a much smaller contract two years earlier. More consistent compliance with the procurement rules is urgently needed, and I think that the government parties should be more oriented to the Court's recommendations. You'd do well with that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22566	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-171 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:12:37]] 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-174 D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, 2005/10 series (1400 d.a.) 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-179 d.a.) of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2005/11 (1401 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22619	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held in one. There was no oral reporting. The debate is opened by Mr Faul. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22646	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Unfortunately, Mr Greenewald spoke a agenda item too early on about this subject of the medical universities, Mrs Bundesminister. I would like to take up once again his aspect, which he knows from a professor's internal relationship there, and to deal with the shortcomings which have arisen from a scientific point of view. If you have the European comparison, if you use a global comparison, you know that this has not necessarily been a happy measure. Mr Grünewald has justifiably said that it is only later that we will see how many synergies will be lost by disseminating the university from the university and losing these links. Mrs Bundesminister, I have to criticize the financial aspects. They have acted with cost neutrality, and the Court of Auditors has rightly established – since you would not have needed any scientific staff in your ministry to recognize this – that this exclusion cannot be cost-neutral, but that the costs will be multiplied there. That's where you ask yourself, Mrs. Federal Minister: What was the point of dissemination? What were the aspects of this? What was really more politically motivated? – If you look at these posts, about which we are already discussing here all day, then you know that there is a good part of the political direction behind them. When you look at the growths there, you can see that at the Medical University there are conditions such as at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, at the post office, at the ORF, at the conference center and ultimately also at the appointment of the disabled lawyer. There's a body that orders. Finally, one year later, the panel determines the amount of salaries of this board. These salaries – in any case we have seen – explode, are doubled and tripled, and you say: All right. They avoid any responsibility and say that has ultimately been done by the Supervisory Board. And you have subsequently awarded these posts without a tender. Leaving aside the legal provisions, posts are simply created, and you say: It happened. – It can't be like that! If you look at the Treaties, you can see that these great salaries, Mrs. Federal Minister, come in this dispensing situation: Allowances for housing, health aid and loud things that are in an ineligible area and which cannot be influenced. The worst thing in the Medical University of Graz was that the rector has been awarded a success fee – I mean, that's what beats the bottom of the barrel! – without at all defining the success! That means if the rector would have said: This year I was particularly successful!, he should have already been able to cash his success fees. These contracts have simply been accepted or overlooked by your civil service. What Mr Grünewald particularly criticised is these growths at the universities, where university professors, board members of the universities' institutions, are responsible for working for universities and on their behalf for ten times as long as for private contracts, where they use service providers to pursue these private jobs, and there they earn a lot of what they deserve as a board of directors. The only argument from your side, Mrs. Federal Minister, is: These are probably acquired rights, you can't intervene. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you: Stop these miscarriages!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22697	The next speaker was Mr Dernoscheg. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22716	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I could make it very easy and easy now. In addition to what Mr Faul, who is only – I think – a simple Member of Parliament and otherwise has no secondary employment, has done about secondary employment, I could say: That's accepted, isn't it? If, at the beginning of the previous item on the agenda, Mr Herb said that we should praise the Court of Auditors, then we are happy to do this: excellent work. If we want to praise the successful implementation of a structural reform, we are also happy to do so, namely to the senior staff of the Medical University and to all the staff. The thing is simple. What was it about? – The medical faculty has been distributed from Karl-Franzens University, and it has been made an independent medical university. The Court of Auditors, in its Court of Auditors report, states that it is overall a suitable solution; it calls the transition to self-employment – I quote – “special challenge” for employees, and continues to say: “In spite of the findings made in the following report, the Court of Auditors acknowledges that the management and staff of the administration of the Medical University of Graz managed to cope successfully with the division.” I should now like to comment on some of the Court's findings: These are, of course, expected in such a transformation, in such a huge project as it represents a re-foundation of a university. Everyone who's involved in business knows that. When you talk to the rector of the Medical University, he says: Everything accepted, much, almost everything already implemented. The statute is made, the internal revision is set up, the procurement of cleaning and maintenance contracts and similar issues are at work. So that would be nothing exciting and just show: The Court of Auditors works serious, the responsible work serious, and they also take the criticism seriously. It is also not surprising for us that now, of course, everything that is a success of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, namely the overall university reform, the university law 2002, which is more and more people, are also saying: It makes sense to let work independently, to let act autonomously!, be criticized by the opposition. That is of course, I have to say – probably to your suffering – also, our ideology is positive accordingly, for you it may be a little more difficult to understand when this ideology brings these successes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The annoyance – as I am really a little personally affected – is that, in fact, in every action she puts, one is always looking for the hair in the soup, although the affected people say that is reasonable, that brings something! – Of course: In the field of education and science – Mr colleague, you know that – everything takes a little longer. Measures take time to show effectiveness. These are not micro-enterprises to be steered. There is nothing good for science, students and teachers if you expect quick results. But now I have to mention something that really bothered me the most and what surprised me. After the Committee meeting, Mr Herbe – I have to address you directly – came out of the Committee's premises and immediately put in place an incomprehensible action. He has already asked the Minister in the Committee about this: Should we not clean up the money for the new Medical University of Graz, which is paying 165 million for a new campus? – Mr Commissioner, I would be glad if you then made an actual correction in which you said: [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Who pays for it?]] I'm for the campus for the Medical University of Graz. The 165 million are to be invested. You have to imagine that the current medical institutes are scattered throughout Graz. With the new campus one could achieve synergies, the teachers would have it easier, and above all this would benefit students. One could finally accompany the medical cluster in Styria a little, which is economically important. [[Abg. Silhavy: The clubman points to the clock!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No!]] That's from the old clothes collection. – Ms. Gehrer admits funds of € 165 million for the construction of a new medical campus in Graz, and you, as the Styrian MP, say: Take the money to renovate surgery! Do you know what effects this would have? Then we have no medical university and no campus in Graz. Please talk to the students there! I talked to them. They say they don't understand at all. And that would be my last sentence, please: You know, I'm not a polemist. But the clarification of this problem, the reorganisation of surgery, is the matter of the country of Styria, Mr. Voves, who really has to show that he is doing something too. [[Call the ÖVP:Ah!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Typical!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: There is a unanimous decision!]] The reorganisation of surgery is from the KAGes. We now also have a raw report from the Court of Auditors on the KAGs. I hope your speech didn't come because the KAGs don't have any more money that a mismanagement took place again, because then we can't clean up surgery. In this case, students would say “thank you, ” as would all family members. But I would like to thank those people who have founded this medical university and who have been successful, who have taken note of the Court of Auditors' comments and who are carrying out the changes. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22824	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22845	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Court of Auditors' examinations of the two art halls in Krems and in Vienna and also to the Kunsthaus in Bregenz. Mr Scheuch, listen briefly. You can if someone else speaks... – I would ask you to listen to me for a moment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I still do what I want!]] Otherwise, it'll take even longer. So I refer to the exam report on the three art halls and I would like to say: There's worse. It's half that wild. When I think about the Court of Auditors report of half a year before that to the Art History Museum, I can only say: If everyone had as little dirt as these three art halls, we probably would not need a Court of Auditors at all. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why? Do you want to abolish the Court of Auditors? Do you have anything to hide?]] We can be glad that these exhibition houses suffer only a few diseases, such as catalog disease. It is very striking that all three produce too many catalogues. By the way, this is a symptom that we always find in art institutions, that should be studied in depth psychologically. Another story, of course, is the Kunsthalle Wien, which, with its statistics on the number of visitors, sometimes actually beats the ground to the barrel. What Director Matt does with all kinds of synthetic tricks is more than high-end. I'm just saying, We always agree that, on the one hand, for all institutions, it is necessary to define what visitors are at all, and on the other hand, we must choose a common method of counting to allow the data to be compared and to become meaningful. The MuseumsQuartier also gives us strange figures year after year. I remember being counted 20 times a day when I went in and out when I was working there myself. There you can come to very strange values. But these are things that are half so wild in the end, compared to the Art History Museum. [[Abg. Neudeck: Tibetan prayer mills!]] – Yes, Tibetan, that may be already, but, Mr Neudeck, have you looked at the last economic data? That's interesting. You obviously observe this too little, otherwise you would have to constantly criticize it yourself. [[Abg. Neudeck: We have been talking about this in committee for a long time!]] The economic data – the annual accounts of 2004 – say that the proceeds from the admissions are declining, and if I say less, then I refer back to the Court of Auditors' report, because at that time the Court of Auditors has already said that they are declining – so they have fallen to the decline even more – and the same applies to the declining revenue – i.e. 15 percent, a new record – from the museum shop, colleague Neudeck, and the other revenues have also fallen. [[Abg. Neudeck: But you know, if we don't want anything at all...!]] In one word: The economic data is insane, and in the end of the year, Mr. Seizel himself writes – now you listen! – that this is the case because of a lack of special exhibitions. Now I have asked how many trips last year have been made, and Mrs Gehrer has kindly answered me: 26 Missions abroad. And on my question, for what, write, Mrs. Minister: On the basis of the preparations of special exhibitions. At the same time, however, Director Seipel tells us that he can't do any special exhibitions or almost no more, because he has too little money. Then why spend money on his travels preparing special exhibitions? It doesn't stop! That is to say, this Court of Auditors report on the Art History Museum is not taken seriously at all. Mrs. Minister, you announce to us that there should be a second director, a financial director. You did that a year ago, you did that half a year ago, you did that three months ago and two weeks ago, and there is still no commercial director there. I can only say: The Court of Auditors' report, discussed today, shows that it is also possible to achieve very well and to achieve good results as regards the artistic, without such pleading as was the case at the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22936	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22957	Mr President. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! My speech is about the Medical University of Graz, which has been examined by the Court of Auditors. The test report describes the development of the medical faculties from the primary universities and the formation of its own medical university as a very suitable solution. We are very pleased that the UOG 2002 is therefore a good and right way. Of course, it is also clear that cost neutrality in the initial phase is very difficult to maintain and that there are, of course, transitional costs. Within a few months, the Medical University has been able to meet the requirements of the UOG 2002 in accounting and reporting, and monitoring is also in a very good phase. This means that everything is on a good path, even if there are some difficulties in starting in individual areas. I would also like to point out one point on the side-work which Mr Faul has shown: I find it very significant that this comes from a SPÖ-college, because you also know that it is very difficult to abolish acquired rights, once granted and granted in earlier times, when a major reform is being made, and you also know that this form of secondary employment has not been authorised by the current government and the government since 2002, but this is still going back to your time. Report to the people who have made it possible that there is this form of secondary employment, especially in the field of medical universities, for the doctors and professors working there. You could have changed it in many years – but you haven't changed it. So that's something that's already there. This is a huge burden, which is now also in this area. I can only repeat the saying in the morning: Come in front of your own door! Had you done things properly before! We have now made a very good reform, where there are, of course, transitional difficulties, but the Court of Auditors report also shows that we are on the right track – and we will continue to work that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e22990	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23012	Mr President. High house! Mr Faul has done something here, and there are growing up at the universities. – I note the following: The universities in Austria and the Medical University in Graz have not carried any money into the Caribbean – this is reserved for BAWAG. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] The universities in Austria and the Medical University in Graz have not speculated – this is reserved for the BAWAG. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The universities in Austria and the Medical University do not have a cheap penthouse on the roof of a bank. [[Abg. Reheis: Far have you brought it!]] I notice: There's no growth. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] And I also notice: Those who work at the universities have no extra charge within the framework of a lotto society. – This is reserved for those who are close to the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Last-class is that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have read the Court of Auditors' report carefully shall: The Court of Auditors report on the Medical University of Graz confirms the success of university autonomy by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors considers the education of its own medical universities to be positive. The Court of Auditors welcomes the fact that the budget allocation to universities as set out in the University Law 2002 has made an important step towards a transparent allocation of resources. I know it's disturbing the opposition that the universities have developed so well. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: What do you mean, Mrs. Minister?]] We have more students, we have more students, and we have more graduates. If you really read the Court of Auditors report on the Medical University, you can see that in the summary exactly a recommendation has been made to the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture – a recommendation! – which means: “To complete its tasks, the Office of the Medical University of Graz would continue to be professionally supported by the BMBWK.” Ladies and gentlemen, these are support for the calculation of rest periods. And we follow this recommendation. We do it, we support the Office of the Medical University in Graz. The other recommendations have been made to the Medical University in Graz, and the Medical University in Graz has reported that it has already implemented these recommendations or that these recommendations have been implemented. I should like to thank you very much for this audit by the Court of Auditors. It has confirmed that the distribution of universities was correct and that the creation of medical universities was also correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23134	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23156	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am one of those who are glad that Mrs. Minister is what she is – and therefore our election opportunities are kept on cooking, to the positive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have chosen a very small point, namely the United East Austrian military foundations. This sounds a bit antiquated, but is something quite up-to-date and a very, very good establishment and is intended to support in need army members, to provide them with recovery or financial support if in need. Why did I choose that? - For the reason, because of that. May in Salzburg a great benefit concert of military music Salzburg will take place in the Festspielhaus, organized by the Comradeship Comradeship Aid, and they will always be happy as snow kings, if 7 000 € remain to help their comrades. If I read in the report here, for example, that for purposes, for purpose, the so-called proportions of those in need are not spent – but I think they are easy to see – or that recreational homes are not used accordingly to provide recovery to military members or their families, then I have problems with that. If, at the same time, I know that six employees are mainly employed for these military foundations, two directors are provided for this, 13 employees in the past, now six are provided by the ministry, then I would expect more efficiency. If Mr President makes it clear that “for recreational purposes it is not fully used”, the utilization is not 100% articulated, then it is very presumptuous if one knows that it means an utilization of 33 to 48 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of improvement. One could really support this companionship, which – I say so – is tearing up the butt to raise money! There is money, there are means to be used! The Court of Auditors' suggestion to apply better in the future has apparently been accepted. If that's the case, it's already been a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23207	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. She also speaks to us for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23228	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The report by the Court of Auditors on the Medical University in Graz confirms the path of our Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer. As in Vienna and Innsbruck, the Faculty of Medicine was split off from the Stamm-Uni in Graz – and that was good! It is only since 2002 that universities really know where the funds are going, and now the universities themselves can determine how they use these resources. This was certainly not easy or very difficult for all parties involved; after all, the entire accounting system had to be changed, strictly according to the Commercial Code. In the Court's view, this has been very, very successful, and we can only congratulate all those involved. The only criticism, namely that there has been an increase in administrative costs, should not be overrated, ladies and gentlemen, finally, the auditors of the Court of Auditors themselves say that the data cannot really be compared before and after the breakdown. For a proper assessment, you also need to find out other costs. Economically, a clear, valued ladies and gentlemen is: Managers are not good then if they cost nothing, managers are only good if they also play the costs many times. This is a fact that you should be aware of. I believe that we should now put on the necessary patience, especially as 3% plus administrative costs are not worrying. The best proof that our medical union is working is the storm of foreign students. Or does any of you think that the German students are coming to us because our universities are so bad? [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Bad you make our universities, our school system, our teachers and thus also our students! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No, you need to go out to the base and talk to the teachers. You will receive the invoice in autumn, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With all the problems that exist in every system, it is apparently still very, very attractive to study in Austria. I am convinced that the new independence of the local associations will continue to do them well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23295	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Gaßner. He too wishes 3 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23316	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Lentsch, first and foremost, the students from Germany come to us because they have no place at home at their universities. That's the real reason! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This was a bad policy in Germany!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: The red-green government in Germany has done this, you know!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you and your team were once again praised for the excellent work. Of course, I also admire you and your team for the excellent work – and also for the fact that you are always ready to do such excellent work, because hardly a report is there, each of the audited bodies is looking for those parts of the report that are positive for them, but all that is criticized by you by the Court of Auditors is more likely to hold back. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what you're doing!]] It says that this is done, it is said, but: What does that actually bring? Is that really what you're paying attention to? [[Abg. Neudeck: You're hiding the cast builder too!]] What really surprises me is that laws are simply not observed. This afternoon, for example, something was said about the Employment Act, for example, a federal law that is simply not complied with. My colleague, Mr Reheis, also spoke here about the individual procurement laws. And in each RH report, it is clear that the procurement laws have not been complied with. Therefore, once again: I really admire the Court of Auditors' work that you are always pointing out, although that does not actually produce anything, does not do anything. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what they're used to! It's been like this for 30 years!]] For example, there is a little flattering report on Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH. The Court of Auditors' report on this matter includes some not exactly flattering findings, such as the fact that production capacity is not used to ensure that internal revision does not work; loss-making participations are criticized. It also criticises the disproportionately high total salary in the resolution of the service relationship of the managing director et cetera. In addition, the RH report states that this bank printing company has generated quite “beautiful” losses over the last two years: The losses of this company have been accelerated from € 15 million to € 21 million, although the results in the years before have been quite positive, for which there are the various explanations. This RH report shows exactly what does not work. To this end, I read that the whole thing falls within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Finance, i.e. to your place of business, Mr. State Secretary Finz – and then I read in the RH report that the Federal Minister for Finance announced to the Court of Auditors in July 2005 that the Austrian National Bank was independent of the federal government and therefore the Federal Minister for Finance had no legal opportunity to intervene in the OeBS business policy. Mr. State Secretary Finz, why, if you are already alerted by the Court of Auditors to the fact that there is something that does not work in this company, do you explain that the Federal Ministry cannot intervene because the OeBS is unbinding? I can't imagine it is! Yes, in the case of monetary policy measures, I can imagine that, but not in the case where there are obvious developments in this company. But that was the case with the report on the BAWAG, which Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, received. In this report, too, all these things have been said, things that you have done here today – now I hear nothing from you – over and over again. The Minister of Finance has done nothing, the Minister of Finance has not responded. As a matter of fact, it does not matter to him as it is in his sphere of action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23437	The next speaker is the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23464	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! At an earlier item on the agenda, Mr Greenewald actually spoke on the agenda to be discussed. That is why I would like to answer briefly questions raised by Mr Pirklhuber in the previous debate. Mr Pirklhuber has raised the question as to what it looks like to be comprehensible in relation to the pre-tax deduction, and whether I can explain to him from the Court of Auditors' point of view what is meant by why this is not understandable. Very briefly: As we have noted in our report, it is true that the marketing contributions the AMA marketing relates to are non-controllable revenues. On the other hand, expenditure is very likely to be taxable revenue, which means that, in this area, the AMA marketing can claim pre-tax, but that, as far as revenue is concerned, non-taxable revenues exist. To this end, we have noted from the Court of Auditors that from the Court of Auditors' point of view, it is not understandable how this regulation came into force. – So that’s about this question. A second point in connection with the control or with the samples that we had not clearly defined this. In this context, I would like to point out page 91 of our summary, where, among other things, the Court of Auditors noted that in some areas effective control was not ensured on the basis of the chosen methodology and the low level of sanctions. – I don’t think it’s possible to express it more clearly. Now on our report on the agenda, which I would like to mention briefly – thank you very much, Mr Faul, has already talked about it – with regard to the criticisms of the Faculty of Medicine. On the other hand, Mr Dernoscheg presented the positives mentioned by the Court of Auditors. In this context, I would like to say that from the point of view of the Court of Auditors, especially when looking at what short time was available for the division of the Faculty of Medicine from the General University, at least two facts were very positive: first of all, in this field, the Faculty of Medicine has cooperated in a highly collegial and partnership way with the parent university. In addition, despite all the criticism in our report, it is also necessary to say that both senior staff and staff have set up a reporting and control system in a very short time and have also taken the first steps towards a university-wide reporting. I believe that this is already worthy and highly esteemed by the staff there, because, in view of the difficulties in this whole matter, it must not be considered as a matter of course. An audit result, which is now also included in this agenda item, concerns the Bundesschulezentrum Linz-Auhof, with this point showing that there are very many potential savings in the school sector, especially if one is willing to enter further extensive cooperations in this area, or even if the teachers can be relieved of administrative activities. One point that we have mentioned in our report is that, in the case of administrative staff as administrators, instead of teachers, a national savings of approximately €6.9 million would be possible from the point of view of the Court of Auditors. In addition, we have also pointed out from the Court of Auditors that three schools are located at the Bundesschulezentrum Linz-Auhof, namely a Federal Trade Academy, a higher education school and a higher Federal Institute for Economic Women's Vocational Training, where these three schools together have a volume of expenditure of around €13 million per year, of which 90 percent are personnel expenditure. Nevertheless, there is cooperation there, which is essentially limited to building-related matters, and I believe that it would be useful to use more opportunities for cooperation to share tasks with a view to increasing the potential for savings. For this purpose: In the sense of consulting, the Court of Auditors has developed a reorganisation model that is applicable both to this school location and to other school locations, according to the motto: One should try to identify savings potential and to increase savings, even if – and we are well aware of this – the current framework conditions are not necessarily to be described as optimal. Further to our report on Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH, OeBS, it is also worth mentioning that, from the point of view of the Court of Auditors and in your interest, I think, it is necessary that the Court of Auditors has the opportunity to carry out a review of public undertakings. I believe that it has also been shown in this respect that the Court of Auditors is able to put the facts on the table in good time and that it is with its recommendations – of course also in conjunction with the The body – measures that improve results contribute to the fact that they are often effected or actually implemented. I would also like to mention in this connection that this was the case with OeBS. In fact, it was true that, at the time of our examination, the objectives which were set at the National Bank, namely to achieve cost-effective banknotes production at market prices and to position themselves in competition, were not sufficiently sought. Although there has been a fall in prices in this area, OeBS has not taken timely rationalisation measures to bring economic success to the company. If you are talking about competition, you also have to consider: It is true that, when compared with other private companies, the central bank printing company was much more favourable than other companies. I would like to point out that it was already equipped with a very high equity of more than €55 million when it was set up or set up in 1998, that the National Bank has set up a new banknote printing plant with new construction costs of € 225 million. This one has been handed over to the printing company by €0.07, so the printing company subsequently had no write-off. The National Bank has also transferred the advance tax on the construction of the building to the printing company, which made it possible to claim extraordinary revenues in the printing industry up to 2004 to an amount of more than €32 million. In addition, the banknotes have also been purchased from printing up to 65 percent above the market price. That is to say, we have created conditions that would have to make it possible for successful companies to achieve this. But that was not the case, but on the contrary: It was not only the falling market prices that led to negative operating results, but in particular inefficient cost structures, weaknesses in the production process, which, of course, also led to a deterioration in economic balance and losses from 2002 onwards. The National Bank's expectations of being able to establish itself on the market have not been sufficiently fulfilled. The synergies were not sufficiently useful. Cooperations, including with its own subsidiaries, have not been exploited. In addition, there has also been a management and management structure in the printing industry, which has shown massive weaknesses. This was particularly generous in the management, especially the managing director for the commercial sector. The contractual relationship has been dissolved after five years. Total cost: € 856,000. Staff management has also not taken the necessary measures in time to adapt the structures, which has also created a huge competitive disadvantage for OeBS. As part of the audit, the Court of Auditors then identified where the problems are, where recommendations are to be followed, what can be done, and this has been taken up in a positive way by the National Bank and the OeBS, and this has led to a significant improvement in results in 2005. However, this will not be enough for the future to actually lead the banking industry economically or successfully ==References== There will therefore be a need for further measures, which the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. These are points I would like to mention today in order to show you that it would be necessary for the Court of Auditors not only to have an audit competence because it has proved itself here because it has shown facts – the Bank Burgenland is another example, the ÖBB is also an example – so that the Court of Auditors is not only given the opportunity to review a company from a public interest of at least 50 percent of m, but that a audit competence of the Court of Auditors should already take place from a participation of 25 percent of the public authorities. I have thus reached a point which Mr Gaßner mentioned when he said: How can the Court of Auditors always be so motivated and bring good reports? . I would just like to mention that, as I have already pointed out today, the Court of Auditors has caused a great deal of savings in what it is doing. I take the National Council very seriously, I am arrested by the National Council as the body of the National Council. You, ladies and gentlemen, have the authority of control. They have rights of interaction and resolution. We in the Court of Auditors do not have the power of sanctions, we show the facts in order to give you the opportunity to draw the right conclusions and to take the necessary measures to ensure that the funds are used efficiently. I believe that in mutual cooperation – and you are just as motivated as I am – it will succeed to show weaknesses or force strengths that are there to use the resources efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23581	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23602	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The Oesterreichische Nationalbank is an independent institution for good reason under the National Bank Act, and the Ministry of Finance does not, of course, have any possibility, especially in the operational field, to issue or intervene there instructions. Therefore, the organs have to represent it themselves. With regard to banking supervision, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticised the organisation of banking supervision in the 1990s. It has been totally starved among social-democratic ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Your party was there!]] She has been unable for decades to carry out on-site tests herself. On-the-spot inspections have always been carried out by the National Bank on behalf of the banking supervisor. The fact that this double game has not done well shows, for example, the case of Rieger Bank and other banking scandals. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What do you mean, Mr. State Secretary?]] For example, the BAWAG; to that we will come to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But I think you're late, Mr. State Secretary!]] It will be shown in a sub-committee of the Court of Auditors, which was confirmed by the bank auditors at the time, which was in fact reported by the National Bank to the Ministry of Finance and whether the Minister of Finance could have recognized that a billion tomb is being shed here. Every day we learn new things about this, and I am glad that there will be a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors which will show these things in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23692	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23713	Mr President. High house! Since the beginning of the 1990s, the question in Austria was whether the medical faculties should be separated from the universal universities. The aim was – and I would like to tell colleagues from SPÖ – to strengthen the position of universities in relation to health care providers, because it is quite clear that it is very difficult to bring together both the needs of training and the care of the sick, both in the organization and in the financial field. For a long time, the shoe-in-shoe model was discussed, because a medical faculty as independent as possible is inside the shoe of the universal university. But this proved to be not practical, and with that one came to the model of separation. This has proved to be a good solution, and the fear that the division of the medical universities from the primary universities could lead to a decline in research activity has not proved true. Now also a comment on the question of cost neutrality: In my view, it is very much to be praised that the Ministry of Education has sought to achieve the objective of cost neutrality – a very ambitious requirement, although the President of the Court of Auditors has now said that this requirement is not realistic. Then: According to the theory of business administration, if synergies can be lifted in the case of mergers in particular in the administration, it is clear that higher administrative costs must be incurred in the case of divisions. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's not clear!]] In this case, they could be kept in a very close frame at 3 percent. [[Abg. Broukal: This is not even comparable!]] Perhaps there are still potential savings that can be raised. In summary, this Court of Auditors report also states that the creation of independent medical universities is a success story of our Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrerist.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23764	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23785	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! It is truly gratifying to be able to discuss these Court of Auditors' reports, because the morals that have been used to by this federal government have always been solidified. Mrs Bundesminister, an example because You have addressed it: the Medical University of Graz. What's going on there? – Something basically positive, as the Court of Auditors rightly pointed out, will become a success story for your friends and friends. The administration is blown up at once – of course not where one might need it, for example in the scientific field. No, it's created its own conductive organs. The administration is blown up. The number of employees in the administration thus increases enormously. But what's remarkable? – The services provided are not properly advertised. There are no contracts for it and so on and so on, what we have known for years. Because the Federal Minister – oh, how original!; we couldn't stop laughing – then the BAWAG put into play: We don't need to shyen the comparison! I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, in this context: Who has invited a Raiffeisen International Board to explore possible mafiotic compounds? – That was the U.S. Ministry of Justice! And it's not known in the Raiffeisen sector that it's just the SPÖ. Or: If Mr Finz, the Secretary of State, – especially original, if not late – calls high-speed calls; [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Highly impudent call!]] Thank you, Mr Jarolim – the colleague Fekter finally comes back to the BAWAG, then you have to tell him: Mr State Secretary, if you so criticise financial market supervision in the crossfire, I must tell you: Under your Minister of Finance, she would have actually worked when he transferred the audit for BAWAG to financial market supervision in 2000. When he was in April 2001... [[Abg. Scheibner: colleague, the collar is wrong! That's not good!]] – Thank you very, very kind, Mr. Scheibner! – When he had the report, he either could not read it or he did not want to understand it. I have to say: Both disqualified him as Minister of Finance, which once again confirms how unnecessary he and with him are many parts of this Federal Government. But this will always be decided by the voters in autumn, as the voters will certainly see, Mr President of the National Council, how you will be holding the meetings here in this House: If the Federal Minister tried to make a mockery of us with some far-reaching comparisons, then it would be appropriate that You will pay more attention to the Rules of Procedure regarding the non-necessary increase in the National Council. I would ask that Parliamentaryism be opposed to this ‘dolfing’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23845	Mr Puswald, I call for an order for criticism of the Presidency. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Puswald spoke to us from the soul!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: The president is under a glass crash!]] The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23899	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Court of Auditors reviewed Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH in October and November 2004. The main focus of the audit was on: policy, economic development, production processes and participations. The Austrian National Bank provided Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH with capital at its establishment, handed over the new banknote printing company to book value and left the staff provided at industry conditions. However, before the examination period, Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH managed to achieve only insufficient, essential strategic objectives. The development of the company was first marked by under-exploitation of the production capacity and later by lack of economic efficiency in the handling of foreign banknote printing after the first stage of the euro. As regards the criticism by the Court of Auditors of the development of Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitskruck GmbH, the Management Board noted that the period considered by the Court of Auditors was undoubtedly a difficult phase for the company. After the order boom on the occasion of the introduction of the euro, all banknote printers in the years after that were in a low utilization rate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors Moser has already pointed out that this company is one which, after initial criticism by the Court of Auditors, has very well complied with the requirements, has managed the turn-around in the meantime and can look hopefully into the future. I would also like to have a private company like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23939	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e23960	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser, you once again reminded us that the National Council had the possibility of control. That's essentially true. But remembering the last discussion in the Court of Auditors, it is known that this is only true up to the Eurofighters or fighters, because there is no control in this committee because the government parties are acting in accordance with the best method, covering and covering. That's their method! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, always take control if it is for you. The difference to the BAWAG, often quoted today, is that my group has agreed to the investigation and subcommittee, while wherever there is something to investigate, you are putting the ceiling over it. The procedure of the Federal Government to completely exclude Parliament from the Eurofighter debate contradicts democratic principles and is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This does not say Gerhard Reheis, who is now standing out here, but that is the opinion of university professor Dr. Öhlinger, who says that while individual militaryly important parts of the treaty may remain unpublished, but the Parliament completely excludes from control, he does not comply with the basic principles of parliamentary democracy. – But that’s how this federal government operates! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now very briefly to the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Graz: There, too, the red thread runs out as far as the post office chess and the occupations are concerned. [[Call the ÖVP: A red thread!]] If you look at the inflated administration, you can see that there were no written contracts for several advisory services provided in 2003, there was a sufficient presentation of the performance content and no tendering was made. What happened? – In turn, people will probably have been employed who come from the dark circle of this federal government. The President of the Court of Auditors has already mentioned the generous agreements on another area with regard to the Austrian National Bank. This is, in fact, another scandal, namely that the generous agreements with the managing director for the commercial sector led to a disproportionately high total salary in the resolution of his service relationship, his employment relationship. In total, the President spoke of €856,000. That's a scandal! And he goes into the series of post-purchasing, post-chacher and the enrichment of artists!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24018	Mr Neudeck is now speaking. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24039	Mr President! Minister! Mr State Secretary! I find it very interesting that Mr Reheis is now talking about Postenschacher in relation to a contract of employment, which was made in 1998. ==References====External links== In September 1998, it was built and registered in the company's book, and in August 1998 this banknote printing was already finished. Mr Reheis, history! Who was then... [[Abg. Reheis:... 2003!]] No, no, no, The Treaty was founded in 1998. It is also criticised here that it was founded for five years and then automatically extended. So you've put a cuckoo egg, which has then hatched anyone, and now you're yelling: That was mail chess! – It cannot be that way, Mr Reheis! [[Abg. Reheis: You only need to read exactly: 2003 and 2004! That's where the Federal Government has already been in office!]] The scandal that nothing goes on there was committed in 1998. With this, we had a contract that we could only change for a lot of money. [[Abg. Reheis: Read exactly!]] My colleague, please read it again and we will talk about it in committee. In any case, your view is wrong. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] But I would like to say one thing: What is right is the praise that all of you pay to the President of the Court of Auditors and to the Court of Auditors. I also think it is very courageous that the Court of Auditors is constantly presenting audits and giving guidance to the companies and the public authorities it is examining. These are also largely in line with what the Court of Auditors points out that it is not quite right and to be changed. One thing, however, cannot be beautifully said – and one cannot thank for it either: what you want to do from the Court of Auditors' reports in the Committee. There, where the Court of Auditors shows a little positive, you want to ask 95 more people, until perhaps someone comes to find a hair in the soup. So I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their reports. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: We've already done it!]] And I'm asking you to apologize for what you want to do on the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24121	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-174 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-179 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:10:26]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 750/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Andrea Wolfmayr, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Temporary Subjective Immunity of Loans to Exhibitions of the Federal Museums, BGBl. I No. 133/2003, amended (1396, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 667/A (E) by Mr Mag. Dr Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues on free entry into the Federal Museums (1397 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24195	We come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Muttons reported. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24225	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Today, on the agenda of the National Council, there are two points on which we are on the agenda in the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology. In April, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, Apart from any content debate, we are always pleased to be able to discuss cultural matters in the National Council. All too often, for example, it is not possible for applications to be made to plenary because they are constantly postponed. We have a request from 2003, which has not been dealt with so far. [[Abg. May. Worm: With the “Saliera”...!]] We hope that our last request, namely the request for cultural education, which was also on the agenda and was postponed, will not suffer a similar fate. Today we cannot discuss the 2004 Cultural Report. It was also on the agenda of the last Committee meeting and was completed. For years, we have called for the reports to be discussed in the National Council. This gave the opportunity to hold fundamental cultural debates and debates here in plenary. The government's museum policy could also be addressed and discussed. In this context, however, I would like to ask myself whether there is a museum policy at all and whether there is a concept for a museum policy or whether political responsibility has not been given to the disseminating of the federal museums. This impression is given by looking at the abuses that occur, for example, in the Art History Museum. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: You have become much better...!]] After all that is not on the agenda and what we would like, now on the points to be dealt with here: On the first point, the amendments to the Federal Act on the Temporary Immunity of Loans, I would just like to say briefly that we have agreed to and agree to this Government proposal, since we believe that the benefits of the Law outweigh the very existing disadvantages. The proposed amendments are to be welcomed because they are being specified. It is even more complicated when the Greens apply for free entry into the Federal Museums. To do this, I have to say: We have been considering for a long time, and finally we have decided not to agree, for two reasons. Firstly, the question of cultural participation cannot be seen exclusively from the perspective of admission prices. We simply need to have a wider discussion about this. The question is: What keeps people from going to a museum? – Studies show that there are several reasons for this. So what we need – and I can only stress this again – is a comprehensive approach and a package of measures that is discussed on a broad basis. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't need a sickle!]] The second reason for our rejection is the fact that the Greens provide for free entry only for the permanent exhibition collections, but not for the special exhibitions. Why this new differentiation? – We don't quite understand: If you don't have money, you can look at the permanent display collections, but you can't watch the special exhibitions that may be discussed in the public. A general free entry into the federal museums would be expensive. But it would be all the more important, if we were to assume limited resources, that there is an overall concept at first. Even if I only pay attention to the case of admission prices: Wouldn't there be other models here to consider and test? – I would rather personally test the free entry on one day in all collections in all federal museums. There are already experiences about this in some museums. So we did not agree to the Committee, but we put in our own motion. Nevertheless, we cannot vote in favour of the negative committee report today, because cultural participation is such an important issue for us that we will continue to insist that it will not be forgotten in the future. As simple as the government parties are trying to do, it is not possible. It's not all wonderful and not all palettes! Measures must be taken to facilitate the participation of people of all categories of people in cultural life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24293	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Wolfmayr. She wants to talk for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24315	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already very late, and that is why I am referring briefly to our request for immunity from loans. It is a necessary request, which also follows a request from the national cultural experts who wish to extend the provisions already in force for federal museums to other exhibition venues. For the duration of an exhibition, there should be no access by third parties to the issued cultural property. That is to say, until the return of the cultural property to the distributors there are no complaints to the issue, confiscation or other execution measures. This does not prevent that, in the context of an exhibition, claims should arise, later the legal path can be followed, as has been the case so far. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is that the exporting country is guaranteed that the pieces awarded will be returned. This is a relief for modern museum practice, in which works of art wander as well as the art friends and experts. It is a relief for our excellent national museums, for example the State Museum Joanneum in Graz, the Lower Austrian State Museum or the Kunsthalle Krems, a necessary condition for foreign cultural property to be shown without disproportionate cost burden in Austria. This is another promotion of modern museum practice. For free entry, the colleagues who speak in my opinion will still mention some reasons why we find the Zinggl proposal negligible. For us, museum revenue is now necessary resources for a better economy. The fact that the path is right shows figures, but even more so the museum boom of recent years – slightly changing numbers of visitors are no counter evidence. The significantly growing popularity of museums as lively and inspiring cultural places, especially among young people and in the urban area, speaks for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So we are not expressly for a free entry, but we are for accentuated and targeted application without levelling. Further creative proposals to attract our museums are not in the way, neither in Vienna nor in the federal states. Art is worth something, and the consideration of works of art must also be worth something. The growing visit of our modern museums, the growing revenue and the thereby constantly improved equipment and management gives us the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24369	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. 10 minutes of welcome; The Group's remaining speaking time: 16 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24390	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would first like to address my own request, with which free entry to the Federal Museums could have been achieved or achieved, and would like to point out that since the exclusion of the Federal Museums in 2000 – it was a long-term process – the admission prices have increased radically. At that time, each of us could visit all museums for 21 € for a year. If a family with a child goes to Albertina today, this family will pay 21 € on a single day. And since the distribution there has been a price increase of 300 percent at the Kunsthistorische Museum. You've been wondering sometime: What do we even have the museums for? [[Abg. Murauer: Where do people come from?]] What is the task of museums? – It can only be said that our cultural estate – and I mean that we Austrians are the owners of this cultural good – is prepared didactically so that we can go and study these objects. [[Abg. Murauer: Here you ask, Where do people come from?]] For this there is also money on the part of the federal government; the basic financing is precisely for this purpose. Every ticket in Austrian museums – ladies and gentlemen, you probably know that – costs the taxpayer 20 €. In fact, it is not at all clear that to this basic subsidy everyone or anyone interested in actually looking at it must put something on it again, that is to say, with a word: once again to be asked for the cash. [[Abg. Neudeck: You have a bad conscience when you go to the museum when you listen!]] In this way – you could easily think about it – every park, for example, would have to ask 5 € for admission, or school fees would have to be collected. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about the tourists?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Then think about it!]] [[Abg. Murauer: That must not be true!]] Just like the schools, the museums are educational institutions. I can still remember that my parents went to the museums with us children, especially in winter every Sunday. So I have been socialized and culturalized to some extent. And this, ladies and gentlemen, can be a family, many parents can no longer afford to do today! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That is to say, admission prices prevent a wide range of education, because barriers have been created for the weaker groups of the population. We are actually seeing the result of the falling number of visitors since prices have increased. It's very strange: Even in countries with extremely liberal economic policies, i.e. in the USA or in the UK, there are museums in which admission is free – by the way for the permanent collection. And here, exactly these museums have international record visit results! You have to ask yourself: What do you want? I don't know if that was you, Mr. Neudeck, but someone said in committee. [[Abg. Neudeck: If it was something bad, it was me!]] What costs nothing is worth nothing! First of all, this saying is very strange! There is no one to give anything at all, because then all gifts are not worth anything. But apart from that: We'll pay for it! We have already paid with the tax money with which the museums are even received. That means, of course, the museums are worth something. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why should I pay something in the opera? Is there something to pay in the theater?]] The proceeds of admissions to the permanent exhibition collections in Austria, Mr. Molterer, amounted to a maximum of €10 million this year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a grotesque argument! When I drive the Bundesbahn, I also pay...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So upon free entry, the basic fees should be increased by €10 million, which is relatively little. Considering that only the Kunsthistorisches Museum gets almost €3 million in addition to the basic fee this year, because Director Seiel cannot operate, you can think that with these €3 million of course everyone could enter on free admission, and that would be much better for me. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Absolutely right! Absolutely right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: An inability premium...!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The place of Jarolim has changed, but not the quality of his calls! She's as bad as it is!]] That is, a director who can better manage would not make these €3 million necessary to be carried out in addition from the budget, and we could all enter the museums free of charge. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: “Frenetic” applause with the Greens – for the protocol!]] Now a few words on the request that the exhibition exhibits should be carried by law: We do not agree, as already in 2003, with this ethically less acceptable special position of works of art. We know that there is something like an excessive exhibition policy, which is the case internationally, but also with us. Therefore, there are more and more spectacular shows, and for this to happen, laws must now be created in order to justify a special position of art. These are exceptional laws, and I have brought some examples in the committee of why the ethical is not really to be represented. I am now bringing a completely different example. We know that in the Iraq war in Baghdad countless art treasures have been robbed from ancient Babel. Now we could imagine that director Seiel, I say now, created an exhibition “Gold in Babel” for Leoben, there we suddenly see all these robbed art treasures, and no one can do anything about it. [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: That's on the hair!]] Not enough to allow the law now that these works of art can no longer be seized, these exhibits are, of course, again legitimated and sanctioned by any public presentation. [[Abg. Murauer: What do you think? ... a fairy taler!]] [[Call the ÖVP:No fairytale hour!]] In my opinion, such a law, ladies and gentlemen, is also quite a question of a constitutional nature and is alarming, because I believe that it also affects the fundamental right to property. I'm already excited about what's going to happen when the first time a case occurs, someone's suing exactly that. In any case, I do not see why art objects should be subject to different laws, different rights than any other object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24641	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24662	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your pleasure that we are talking about culture in Parliament, but since we have already discussed these agenda items very intensively in committee, I can actually be very brief here, in view of the advanced period. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] First of all, with regard to the issue of immunity, immunization: Mr Zinggl, what you mentioned here has been drawn to the hair. It is about the fact that the national cultural experts expressed an intense desire for such a law, because otherwise they would have difficulty getting objects for special exhibitions. We do not want to prevent such special exhibitions, especially since otherwise you are the first to say: There's nothing going on in the museums! – That is why I believe it makes sense to pass this law. I would like to say to your request for free museum visits: How do you imagine that? – At the previous item on the agenda, you have complained of the bad financial situation and the lack of revenue of the museums, and at the next item on the agenda, you will demand that museums refrain from providing substantial income. If you say, Well, it's actually nothing at all, then we're just increasing basic funding!, then you have to say: Where does the money come from? How should this be covered? [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] – Such demands can only be made if you are in opposition and for nothing. If you say you could take Seizel away the €3 million... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... Seize, for example!]] I tell you, if you listen to me, you could save yourself this call. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – The € 3 million has not been paid because Seizel is unwise, but because additional security measures are necessary to meet the current standard. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: That's another 5 million!]] Therefore, the €3 million must be supplied in all cases. Mrs Muttonen, it is not all palleti, but it has not been claimed by any human being either. But we are making a policy here, in particular what the museums are about to do, to achieve a step-by-step improvement in the situation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Toll! But the opposite is the case!]] Their proposals are not suitable for ensuring this progress. That is why we are against the Zinggl proposal, and we welcome the other proposal because we want to have regular exhibitions in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24744	Now, Mrs. Gehrer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24765	Mr President. High house! I understand that the opposition does not like the fact that the museums have developed well. [[Abg. Reheis: That's wrong!]] I can also help you to know what happened: 2001: Reopening of the Technical Museum; 2001: Opening of the Museum Quarter; 2001: new opening of the MumOK; 2003: New opening of the Albertina; 2005: The new opening of the Globe Museum in the renovated Mollard Palace; the Museum of National History will be re-opened in 2007; 2005: Opening of the newly designed antique collection at the Kunsthistorisches Museum; 2007: The new opening of the Kunstkammer in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. We have watched the museums develop well after years of neglect! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr: Yes, that's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: How long are you Minister?]] We have developed the museums well. They were neglected decades before. We now have about 3.5 million visitors to the federal museums, which is 1.2 million more than in 1995 than I took over the museums. [[Abg. Krainer: Busek?]] Whoever reads the cultural report, the art report, sees what has developed in the field of research, in the field of exhibition, in the field of museum didactics. I would like to say one more thing about your call for call: Mr Busek has already begun the general renovation and renovation of the museums. Tens of years before, they were most neglected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Krainer: 1945?]] On the question of free entry, I would like to make a clear statement: In our large museum survey, we asked people: What do you think a museum visit is worth? And do you know what the people we interviewed told us? You think a museum visit is worth an average of between €9 and €10. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Who did you ask?]] People thus have a better feeling than the opposition, because the citizens know that something is being offered to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The current average of the admission prices of the Austrian Federal Museums is €8. There are discounts for families, for students, there are discounts for the elderly, for the disabled. We will continue to pursue this policy, we will give reductions to the groups that need it. However, we will also help those who can afford it to contribute to a certain amount of money for the good exhibitions, for the good special exhibitions in the museums. I think that's right, and I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24886	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e24907	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, your statement that the opposition would not like to see the federal museums develop well – as you formulated it at the beginning of your remarks – reminds me a little of the numerous debt debates we have held here with you in the High House, in which, if we criticized your policy, you have accused us of bad talking to the schools and the work of the teachers and the work of the students. [[Deputies Mag. Dr. Fekter and Dr. Wolfmayr: You do too!]] - Yes, the reflexes work. [[Abg. May. Muttons: That was a test!]] The truth is: Both on the one hand and in the other, we are not talking bad about the institutions, not about those acting in schools, but about the fact that very important political steps are being taken by you. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Retirement!]] [[Abg. May. Dr. Fekter: But many would have to resign if Federal Minister Gehrer had to resign!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What kind of witness do you issue to your government?]] In this sense, I would also like to deal with the Greens' request, which I, and in particular the concern raised by this motion, do not feel negligible in contrast to Mr Wolfmayr. On the contrary: I think this is a matter of particular urgency and importance. Of course, if you are in a financially well-situated situation, it is very easy to say: Culture must be worth something! What is worth is, of course, that depends on the income situation in question and therefore very different. I think that the example mentioned here by Mr Zinggl, with the previous year's entry at €21, while today's a single visit to the museum for a family with a child, is quite significant. And you probably go or hopefully go to the museum more often. And, honestly, once in a while. Swallow You don't even have a little bit if you pay for three cards, for example? I am already doing this, and of course families with a lower income have to consider this very carefully. We have tabled a different proposal in the committee because we think it should be possible to find ways, but we have not been so sure whether the path proposed by the Greens is the only right one. However, we believe that it is urgently necessary to examine appropriate models and will therefore not accept the negative committee report.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25000	Mr Neudeck is the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Zinggl has already said in the Committee that revenue from museums is falling. On the other hand, however, it is for the museums to be visited free of charge or the tickets to be free of charge. He couldn't explain how it looked. This also applies, of course, to the tourists, not only to the Austrian population, because we would not actually do so. According to the logic of your argument that we are already promoting the museums anyway, we should not demand anything at the tram in Vienna or at the ÖBB and probably not at the canal and water, because that is also promoted. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You should do this in Vienna once!]] In Vienna it is different at the canal. They lift so much there that they have almost €100 million in profits. So that's quite something else there, and doing something for free, heupl will certainly not want to. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha! You could hand that over to the museums!]] No, you'd have to change the head to something worse than it is now. I have already said this in committee, and I will tell you again. I've read it to you there, I don't do it here for time economic reasons. It is already so with the museums that most of the tickets are favoured or free tickets are for family discount et cetera. So I don't know where you're going, and I'm at the sentence: What costs nothing is worth nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25070	The next speaker is Mr Christ. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25092	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! The Federal Act to be amended, which regulates the temporary objective immunity of loans to exhibitions of the Federal Museums, will in future guarantee the lenders of exhibits a guarantee to ensure the return of the work of art. This created a bridge that promotes the international exchange of cultural goods and fulfils our cultural education mandate even more. The sometimes expressed objection that property rights are restricted by this law is to be neglected in view of the expected reliefs in the condition of exhibitions. In any event, a public exhibition of cultural goods would undoubtedly provide assistance in finding or tracking the current owners in the event of uncertainties in the issue of ownership. The suggestions of the national cultural conference were also followed by this law. This is also positive, and therefore nothing stands in the way of consent. Second area: Free entry into the Federal Museums is a matter that for us is directly linked to the topic of “cultural participation”. Here has always been our demand that everyone be able to participate in cultural life as fairly as possible, regardless of income and social shift. Free entry is good, but too little to reduce inhibitory swelling and reservations. Other measures need to be taken. We have already put forward a number of proposals to this end. [[Abg. Neudeck: You could pay the museum visitors a little more!]] The Greens' request is basically positive, but we are still a little too far or missing, as my previous speakers have already mentioned, important areas for us. We therefore call, in particular, on you, Mrs Minister, on a repeated basis, for an overall approach to improving cultural participation, but also for the creation of easier access to cultural infrastructure in order to develop your own potential for creativity. This must be possible in all areas of education from kindergarten to university.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25126	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25148	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are 1,800 museums in Austria, and we are now talking about 13 federal museums. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We're talking about Seizel!]] In 1998, the museums were released into the lawfulness of the museum, thus giving them the opportunity to inculcate their own profile. They were promised to receive a basic salary, but they were also told that they had to provide for their additional proceeds themselves. We cannot establish on the one hand a system that works very successfully – up to 40 percent are generated there! – and on the other side of this system again after a few years and say: Free admission to museums for everyone! We have also seen that this is not the case. We would also like to see many, much more people from Austria visiting the museums. However, we have examples that even on free entry, as for example in the MAK every Saturday, the results do not vote. The MAK has around 180 000 visitors all year round. The Technical Museum, which has not formulated its offer, has over 200 000 visitors. So we are against this proposal. – I am convinced that the way the museums have taken is a success: an extended offer, many discounts on the one hand, a functioning system on the other. In Vienna, you might be encouraged to introduce a museum ticket. Vienna doesn't do it, but anyway: We have a good, excellent museum policy. It would be nice if you would participate in it in a different form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25187	Mr Reheis is now speaking to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25209	Mr President. Expensive member of the Federal Government! Col. Wolfmayr said that art was worth something to this federal government. – At the time of the day, better said: the late night in which this cultural debate is taking place, one recognizes the importance attached to the culture by this Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have agreed to the agenda!]] I think that the Federal Government has not only prevented a debate of the cultural report here in plenary, but it is putting it into a little representative time with this midnight cultural debate. I think this is happening almost without the public. A discussion at a more representative time, perhaps during the TV broadcast here in the plenary session, could take place here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I'm going to pass this on to Cap!]] This would certainly be an appreciation in the sense of what Mr Wolfmayr said, namely that culture of this federal government is worth something, so that it can be implemented. Ms Prokop, Minister for the Interior, said: The “Sally” is back home! – and meant the “Saliera”. That's very pleasing. However, when you take it exactly, the home of the “Saliera” is actually Innsbruck, considering that – and I am now quoting the head of state Herwig van Staa – the valuable salt barrel, as is known, as a gift from King Karl to Archduke Ferdinand II of Tyrol. The head of state Herwig van Staa also said that he would like the “Saliera” in Tirol. [[Abg. Neudeck: I would like her with me!]] We, colleague Wurm, Niederwieser and I, have supported this and would like to see an exhibition sharing at the “Saliera” between Innsbruck, the Ambras Castle, and the Museum of Art History. I would like to know what you are saying about this concern by Mr Herwig van Staa and what you think of our motion for a resolution and whether you can support it, because the real home of the Saliera is actually the Ambras Castle in Tyrol. And there the “Saliera” would certainly be safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25283	Mr. Friend is the next speaker. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25306	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are negotiating today the motion for a resolution by Mr Zinggl for free entry into the exhibition collections of the Federal Museums. We cannot say yes to this by the ÖVP. They claim: Families could not afford a museum visit to the Austrian Federal Museums. To this end, I would like to inform you that the majority of the paying Austrian museum visitors make use of discounts. Full payers are only 28 percent of visitors. And as surveys have shown, the incentive for museum visits is not free entry. There are museums that, as mentioned above, have free entry on Saturdays, but still do not attract more visitors than other houses. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Museums offer a variety of varied, visitor-oriented exhibitions. From the state to the tour of the museums, €70 million annually come to basic subsidies. In addition, private economic methods generate own resources. Several federal museums generate more than 40 percent of their own budget. The Federal Minister Gehrer has enabled the Federal Museums to do so in a modern way, and this has, as has been shown, great success: Museums today have about twice as many resources at their disposal as they did ten years ago. The range of museums has improved considerably, has become more exciting, more lively and addresses a million audience annually. 83 percent of tourists claim to come to Vienna because of the cultural offer. In 2004, the Federal Museums counted 3.5 million visitors; this is a plus of 1.2 million visitors compared to 1995. These are numbers that can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that the interest in museum visits be aroused already in the parents' house or in the school. The museums make a valuable contribution by offering extensive programmes for children and young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25347	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. You too have a welcome speaking time of 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25368	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because of the late hour a few thoughts also about this: I am sorry that the culture will be treated this late once again. I'm really sorry. [[Call to the ÖVP: The cap so wanted it!]] I am also sorry that the cultural report is not dealt with in the plenary session, that it has been completed again. I can't quite understand this, because in view of the speeches or contributions of colleagues from the government parties to the Committee's cultural report, I think that: You all need to be interested in the fact that we are talking about this so that you can praise the Minister once again. Otherwise, you do not leave an opportunity to praise ministers of the Federal Government. That is why I do not fully understand why we cannot discuss this in plenary. Perhaps it is the fear that one could also have a critical discussion about the cultural report here in plenary. The other conclusion might be that there is no interest on the part of the government colleagues in talking about culture, which I find very damaging. [[Abg. Neudeck: We are very interested!]] Now to the agenda item on free entry into the museums: Mr Muttonen has already mentioned our reservations. We believe that cultural participation needs more than free admissions, an overall concept, which, in my opinion, must also be taken into account, in particular, that the interest of those children whose parents are not so much interested in culture is aroused. I believe that all children should be given the opportunity to participate in culture in order to be able to live cultural interest in their later adult life. I think it is also important to promote children's own creativity much more than it is now, but especially in this area, Mrs Minister, you have massively saved your responsibilities as Minister of Education and Education. Unfortunately, there are actually savings in creative teaching, even if you always deny it. But it is so, and this is very bad, because I think that the interest in culture can also be aroused by its own creativity, that one can reduce access barriers in the minds of the people, that one can also reduce the thresholds above all. In this direction, our request to promote and strengthen cultural education would be aimed at, and I very much hope that we can still decide on this request, because we are all talking about cultural participation, including the Members of the Government – and if not in this legislative period, then surely after the elections in autumn, because then we will put the Minister of Education and Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25428	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25450	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, many countries, in particular the major states of Europe, have established legislation that allows loanors of international projects to give a legally binding commitment on the return of loans which cannot be held back by third parties. There has now been such a federal law for the Federal Museums of Austria for two years. And today we are adopting a federal law which, in addition to the Federal Museums, also benefits those institutions that deal with the presentation of international cultural and art exhibitions. This was also the great desire of the countries, also the state of Lower Austria or the Kunsthalle Krems, not least because of the serious competitive disadvantage and the risk of the internationality of exhibition projects taking place outside the Federal Museums. This amendment of the Federal Law now takes account of this fact and creates equality between all Austrian institutions that carry out exhibitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25480	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grossmann 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25503	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest challenge for cultural policy is to bring culture to people. The price of running a selection is, of course, the stupidest thing you can do, especially since you then also close future visitor groups. That is, moderate prices are indispensable. However, Mrs. Minister, the value of a museum visit cannot be offset by the admission price. I am convinced that a museum visit is worth much more than €9. It seems that I appreciate our museums more than you, Mrs. Minister. However, one cannot demand the real value of the audience. Anyone who wants to go to a museum should also be able to go to a museum. The price cannot and must not be a criterion, but it must not be equal to the zero rate for the Director-General and the unemployed alike. In the field of performing art, I like the project “Hungry on Culture” at the Wiener Schauspielhaus, where socially needy people can visit free performances. In Styria, Landesrat Kurt Flecker has launched a similar project. – There is something you could look away for the museums as well. Of course, they also have the same brake thresholds that have nothing to do with money. If young people make long faces when a museum visit is threatened at school, of course you have to consider whether our museums are still contemporary or have the right image. Museum pedagogues really have great ideas, but of course they also need the means for their implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! The dock for cultural education is the school. In particular, the creative subjects of visual education and music have the task of preparing the field for the lifelong discussion of art and culture and of developing the creative potential at all. But precisely these subjects have been particularly affected in recent years by hourly cuts, as Mrs Königsberger has already said. Obviously, these subjects are considered orchid subjects, which are economically unprofitable and therefore worthless, and one has to say that the current school system with frontal education in the 50-minute period can only be very difficult to meet the requirement of cultural education. A whole day school system with alternate teaching units in theoretical subjects, sports and, of course, creative units would certainly be better suited. But we know that the rulers on the right side of this hall see it differently, but that will probably not be of relevance for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25550	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. A minute's welcome time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is interesting that you also discuss the whole day school again in the cultural debate. I also have a fine example of how we can be proud of the education system in this country, but certainly also of this museum landscape. The Land of Lower Austria was also a advocate for this immunity of works of art as part of the conference of the national cultural experts – because we in Lower Austria have an excellent museum landscape with very well visited exhibitions, and we can certainly be proud that this extension of the federal museums and the fullness of justice was undoubtedly a particularly successful line. I think we can be proud of the museum landscape in this republic. The federal museums, the countries, but also the municipalities do much. In this context, I can now invite everyone to my home community: The next weekend is a special exhibition with the theme of Schwarzwild – the wild boar. They are most cordially invited, and we can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25603	The next speaker is Mrs Walther. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25625	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a short look and come back on something that has, of course, already played a role in the Committee on Culture, namely the way in which things are kept or then not kept in mind. I was very sorry you couldn't keep the golden Adele. [[Federal Minister Gehrer: Klimt-Bilder, not Schiele!]] - The Klimt picture, yes. I was very sorry to have let go of such an audience magnet, which she has presented in the Belvedere, where there would have been real opportunities to put accents there. [[Abg. Neudeck: If BAWAG hadn't put the money in the Caribbean, we could have bought it!]] I would also like to point out that through sponsoring... – Now please be quiet, I would like to speak out! [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe the Flöttl junior buys herself!]] In this context, I would also like to point out the extended request of the Greens and SPÖs to strengthen the right of the heirs to compensation and the right to active research, or to mention a date for the restitution database, which has already been spoken of in the art report, which unfortunately ended once again, and that this database will be implemented as soon as possible. We are dealing with a comprehensive approach to promoting and strengthening cultural education and participation, and this should really concern all the shifts, from the student who has no rich parents to the old people, so that pensioners can also attend high-level cultural events with a small pension. It is important that remote layers of education can participate and participate and that they really get a gusto on culture. For us to really consider new concepts and see how to strengthen the flow to museums and cultural institutions, time should not be too short and efforts should not be too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25690	Mr Pack is now speaking for 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25711	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this request, we can secure the level of culture and the special exhibitions of the countries – an international standard that is now also possible in our Austrian federal states. Austria is a very good cultural location, not only in the centres, but above all in the regions and in the countries, and this is very important. Should the number of visitors in our museums really be reduced, then the opposition is certainly partly due to this, which through its constant slender step always corresponds to the museum location and the museums themselves the quality, which simply does not correspond to the truth. If you look at Mr Zinggl's request and look at his account, you could also say that every taxpayer has to pay €200 for tourists to go to Austrian museums free of charge, and that can't be it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25741	The next speaker is Mr Schultes. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25763	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have discussed and will introduce the objective immunity of loans. It was also an urgent desire from Lower Austria, which has already prepared the national legal conditions in order to be able to implement this very quickly. We are concerned because this needs our high-quality collections in Lower Austria – the Landesmuseum, the national exhibitions, the Kunsthalle, the Essl Collection – of course in international exchange. On the question of admission: You can also look at the current state of play in Lower Austria. There is the Lower Austria CARD. This is a special story: Once you pay the equivalent of a rod cigarette – 39 € is reasonable for everyone, 19 € for children – and can therefore visit 150 destinations for a whole year. You can go to the Renner-Villa in Gloggnitz for example, but you can also visit the Figl-Museum, if you want to look at the Kunsthalle, you can go to the Essl Collection, to the Landesmuseum, you can visit the Lower Austrian Museum of Folk Culture in Großschweinbarth, where you can see the beautiful exhibition 100 years of Farmers' Association. You can, if you want, also visit Schloss Hof – also great, made with a lot of federal money. You can go to the Nonseum to Herrbaumgarten, where you can learn a lot for opposition work. You can go by cable car or by boat, yes You can even go to the bathroom and train how this is when you have the water up to the neck. Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25800	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25823	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Mag. Grossmann has actually confirmed the “profile” report on the SPÖ culture policy. He's reading, and I quote: “After years of alienation, the SPÖ is of an old quality and is advocating for the favor of cultural creators. But instead of reaping sympathy, they face anger.” – Quotes. For example, if André Heller – not exactly a bourgeois artist – says that the SPÖ has not taken any more account of culture, or Robert Schindler as a writer says there was apparently no interest and it is not so good when you start it only in the election year, then it shows what cultural policy the SPÖ is currently pursuing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For general free entry it is to be said: It's more of a left approach. He would also limit the ability of the museums to act. If I look at 83 percent of tourists coming to Austria because of the cultural offer and implementing €1.7 billion, it would certainly be the wrong cultural policy approach to make admission free of charge for all these groups. The increase in visitors by 50 percent from 2.3 million visitors to 3.5 million visitors is a very great result and confirms the accuracy of cultural policy, the fullness of museums. The budget has doubled over the last ten years, and the basic subsidy is currently €70 million. The museums enjoy world reputation, and we can be very proud of this cultural policy. I think it is not good if this cultural policy is ultimately criticized again and again and not taken note of that it is by the population – at all by the tourists from all over the world! – excellently accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25873	The last speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. She also speaks to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25894	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I thought, I'm a museum story, but what I heard from Hermann Schultes now – I've got some more to pick up and pick up! The international art company lives on the fact that various exhibits are awarded. Thus art comes to the people and thus becomes an enrichment. – We have experienced this in Austria in recent years and have benefited greatly from it. I remember the exhibitions: Dürer, Goya or the Rubens exhibition – all the audience magnets. They were also made possible with a corresponding commitment of the various museums, which offer a wide range of houses. However, the lending of art items also entails legal risks, as had to be experienced in our Republic in the recent past. Therefore, it is necessary to take appropriate legal action to secure this lending operation. The content of the present application is therefore an objective immunity to loans which guarantees protection against seizure and execution. But now also a word for free entry into the Federal Museums: That's not what I'm for! But I am very much in favour of extending the free visits for children and young people – they are the visitors of tomorrow – and I am also in favour of having reductions: 45 percent of visitors benefit from these offers. On completely free admission, we withdraw the museums €13.5 million, and that would be – for example – 26 percent of the total effort. For example: In the years 1988 to 1998 there were lower admission prices and partly free entry on Sunday. What did it bring? – Nearly a million fewer visitors than in 2004 for example! The development of the Austrian museum landscape has been great, exemplary over the last few years – abroad, we are envied by it. Let us therefore support the museum leaders in their success course and also give them the appropriate financial resources!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25936	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the federal law on the temporary immunity of loans to exhibitions of the Federal Museums, together with the title and receipt in 1396 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – The draft law will also be adopted by a majority at third reading. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Culture's request to take note of its report 1397 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:05:45]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e25995	Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Molterer and Scheibner, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the Federal Council of 21 December 2004 (Federal Council). of 2 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 2 April 2006. March 2006 concerning a federal law amending the ÖIAG Law of 2000, a period of until 19 March 2006. ==References== Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Molterer and Scheibner, the Judicial Committee for Reporting on the opposition of the Federal Council of 21 December 1989 of 29 April 2006 against the decision of the National Council of 29 April 2006. March 2006 concerning the 2006 Act of Change of Takeover Law, a period of until 19 March 2006. ==References== If you agree to this deadline, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[00:06:41]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-04-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00145_d7e26046	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted from 820/A to 825/A. Questions 4165/J to 4177/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 27. April, following the commemorative meeting against violence and racism, which takes place at 9 p.m. and is broadcast live by television. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. I wish you all a good night! This meeting is closed.
