ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e881	The 144. The meeting of the National Council is open. I should like to welcome all the ladies and gentlemen to the House. The meeting last night lasted until midnight, and I am glad that everyone is here anyway. As prevented, MEPs are reported Broukal, Lacner, Mag. Johann Moser, Wimmer, Dr. Grünewald and Haidlmayr. Today we have a so-called Europe Day. That means that this meeting is devoted exclusively to European issues. In the period from 10 a.m. to 14.05 p.m., the meeting will be held live by ORF. In addition, it is planned to interrupt the meeting during the news between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. [[10:00:51]] 1. Point Successful judicial policy for the benefit of Austria and European security
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e934	We are now on the topic of “Successful Justice Policy for the Good of Austria and European Security”. I give the floor to Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. According to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be restricted to 10 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e958	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To us Austrians, some EU politicians are always strongly advised to think primarily of Europe and to continue to respond to national wishes, suggestions and so forth. The common good of Europe is intended to determine domestic policy action – and not the particular interests of Austria. For example, a member of the EU – I am not saying who it was – said: Not the most convenient national way for the Community is the right one, only for Europe is the way that strengthens confidence in the EU. As an Austrian politician, I do not want to accept it so fully, because of course the well-being of Austria and the well-being of the Austrians are important to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The main focus is on what is useful in Austria, what serves the good of Austria, and on the meaning of the application of EU law in general. We must also try to enforce the demands that are important to us in Europe. Mrs Minister, I am therefore very pleased that we are holding this debate today under the title "Successful Justice Policy for the Good of Austria and European Security". Today we have the opportunity to discuss what is important to us Austrians in the field of justice policy and what message we give you on your way to Brussels, Mrs Minister, so that you can follow our wishes and suggestions in the interests of the Austrians. Especially in the field of justice policy, there are some areas where, in my view, we should not allow a single EU law. I believe that national law, particularly in the criminal field, should continue to apply, although there are always tendencies in the EU to harmonise criminal law. There are always harbingers that action is to be harmonised, that the enforcement of penalties should be harmonised, that the penalties should be harmonised and regulated across the EU. I am convinced that this does not make sense, because every country in Europe has its historical systems and differs from any other country in such a serious way that it would not only be infinitely difficult to standardize, but also any compromise that would come about would certainly be unsatisfactory for all countries. For example, in Austria, for example, 80 percent of prison sentences are generally fined. In Britain, however, if you have received a ten-year imprisonment, you may have the chance to go free after a year. That means there are such big differences that I can't imagine that there could be sensible rules there. Minister! We ask you to oppose and say to all the advances and all the tendencies towards the harmonisation of criminal law in the EU: We have a very well developed criminal justice system from which we do not want to deviate! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another EU request – I call it the EU – is the so-called European prosecutor. The EU should set up its own authority, a public prosecutor responsible for specific offences, namely attacks on the EU itself, fraud against the EU, subsidisation of subsidies and so on, i.e. a special prosecutor's office acting independently of our Austrian legislation and legal order. That is to say, this European prosecutor could act out of court, cause house searches, file charges, make judgments, and so on, without going into our legal system. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – What did you say? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Riepl: “Speak judgments ”?]] I have a certain speaking time, I cannot now go into it, but you have the opportunity to respond to it in the context of a word communication. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Minister! We have a highly developed legal system, and I am convinced that we are also in a position – and this is what we have to explain in Brussels – to pursue all kinds of infringements, even if they are directed against the EU. As has been said, there is a great deal of opposition from our side to the European Public Prosecutor or to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Another project in the EU – since Austria has taken the initiative – is that the enforcement should take place in the respective country of origin. This is to be welcomed on the one hand, because in Austria, about 43 percent of foreigners are foreigners, and it is not to be seen that we should bear the costs that should actually be borne by the home country. Only: The hook on the whole story is that you don't want to make a so-called adjustment. That means, on the other hand, that Austrian judgments are carried out under Dutch law, for example. Right of enforcement: The Netherlands – but the judgment has been spoken in Austria. This may result in Austrian judgments being interrupted or counter-caring or in over-dimensional penalties being imposed on the other hand. I have already mentioned the example of England. There the penalties are very high, but the execution is very easy. In England, someone is sentenced to 20 years – the penalty is set to release him after a few years. According to our system of penalties, this one in England would have to sit for 20 years. So that would simply not be justified from the dimension. Minister! I would really insist that an adjustment be made, i.e. a review of how the criminal enforcement systems look and how the convictions have an effect. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As I said, in criminal law, I believe that we are really moving forward in national law and that we do not need the European Community and also no uniform system. It looks different in civil law. There are a lot of areas that are effectively regulated by EU uniform law – this is happening all the time! We are constantly adapting; we are doing this in a truly excellent and timely manner, and all EU directives are being implemented in us. For example, we have the rules on money laundering, the liability of legal persons and so on, all of this we have done here. An important area – I would also like to give this to you on your way to Brussels, Minister; While you are not primarily responsible for asylum law, you are in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, and you have a strong word to say – that is: We need a uniform EU asylum law. This is urgently necessary, because it is a matter of ensuring that asylum seekers are given more fair distribution of costs. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] Austria in particular has a very, very large burden to bear, because we have a lot of asylum seekers in relation to other European countries. We must also find a solution for those who come on behalf of the right of asylum, but who develop criminal activities here. Nobody – no Austrian! – sees that we cannot postpone asylum seekers who have become criminal, such as drug dealers. The EU must find rules that we can also deal with those who are using asylum. For example, at the time, SPD Minister Schily proposed to set up reception centres outside the EU – in Africa, in Russia – and to deal with asylum procedures outside the EU. This makes sense: do not allow entry into the EU, but already solve the problems outside the EU! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Gastinger, we know how difficult the discussions in the EU are, because there are divergent interests – for example, the Scandinavians have no understanding at all that Austria is heavily burdened by asylum seekers, by immigrants – we therefore wish you a lot of strength and enforcement for these negotiations and hope that you can also implement what we are giving you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1049	On the issue of an introductory opinion, Mrs Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Gastinger to speak. Your speaking time is Unlimited, but then not too long. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1081	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to express my pleasure at speaking here today on an EU issue, namely “Successful Justice Policy for the Good of Austria and European Security”. As you all know, I have had the opportunity to deliver opinions on several occasions in the European Parliament – whether in the LIFE Committee, which is responsible for fundamental rights, or in the JURI Committee, which is comparable to our judicial committee, but also in the plenary session, I have already completed a Question Time. I can tell you from this experience that my impression of the European Parliament is very positive and that there are real efforts to work here for the benefit of Europe, but that is of course the case. I believe that events, as we are doing here today, are particularly important, especially at the stage in which Austria holds the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and thus has a very responsible task for Europe. Especially the area of justice and home affairs, in which I may be active and now, together with my colleague Lese Prokopde, is so important for Europe. Our citizens in Europe, I believe, can really expect common solutions to cross-border problems from us. In this area we want to work quite massively! I only mention the areas for which we are responsible: illegal migration – Mrs Partik-Pablé mentioned this earlier – asylum abuse, trafficking in human beings, tow crime, terrorism and also organised crime. You see, these are all the areas we are dealing with at the level of the European Union for the benefit of our citizens and thus finally – and this is especially important to us – for the benefit of Austria. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the European Union level, we have given ourselves here a work programme, the so-called Hague Programme, which is our work concept for the next five years, i.e. for the period from 2005 to 2010. The priorities of this Hague programme are precisely those which I have just mentioned. We have divided this into three areas: One is the area of freedom, the other the area of security, and the third is the area of rights. In these three areas, we want to work for the benefit of Europe. Mrs Partik-Pablé referred to the subject of asylum law. In this context, I can calm her down: We have undertaken to create common European rules for a common European asylum policy by 2010, which I believe is particularly important, because this is a problem that concerns us in Europe in total – not just us in Austria. I remind you: There are also problems with asylum in Italy and Spain. This is a common problem, and I believe that we can only solve this common problem in Europe. [[In the case of the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as the Abg. May. Worm.]] I am also grateful to Mrs Partik-Pablé for addressing the very sensitive area of criminal law in such an urgent manner, and would like to say the following: We have clearly adopted the principle of mutual recognition in the Hague programme. This means that we Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think that's both important and the right way. During our Presidency and in further succession as a representative of Austria in the Council, I will always work to ensure that we are massively opposed to the harmonisation movements in our area of justice. This is particularly important! Why is that so important? – Especially the criminal justice area, our criminal law reflects our system of values. We have a similar system of values in Europe, but we still have our specifically Austrian system of values, and this should also be reflected in our criminal law system. But this also means that, in terms of our future cooperation in Europe, we are based on this principle of mutual recognition and all the legal instruments that we are now creating, both in the criminal and civil matters, are based on this basic principle. This is also important, for example, for the execution of penalties in the home country – a very important initiative for me, which is also an Austrian initiative. We are now in very intensive negotiations, and I hope that during our Presidency we will succeed in successfully adopting the Framework Decision. Here, too, the principle of mutual recognition is of vital importance. I think that this instrument of enforcement in the home country will, in the EU-25 area, be further indicative of the Council of Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Time is going on – and I would have to tell you so much! In short, what is very important to me and where we can certainly only do together, where we Austrians too can make a very important contribution: the fight against terrorism and organised crime. Austria alone cannot cope with this problem, here we need cooperation with Europe! [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need this cooperation, particularly in the form of the creation of a common legal framework, once again in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition, an improved cooperation between our police, but also the cooperation of the judiciary, says: the courts. It is only then that we are interconnecting here at European level and that we also have confidence in our partners in Europe that we can overcome these problems. I would also like to make a brief comment on another aspect. I am concerned about setting priorities during the Austrian Presidency, which we have jointly undertaken as a government. We are concerned with the prospects of the Western Balkans, i.e. the States of the former Yugoslavia. In this context, I can tell you that two days ago I made a trip through all these states with the aim of putting signs there during our Presidency, namely signs insofar as we want to offer assistance to these states in the area of justice in order to advance judicial reforms in these countries. You can believe that a well-functioning justice means security for Europe. A well-functioning justice is also the basis for every democracy and the basis for our economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why, as we have already done very successfully in Bulgaria and Romania, “development aid” is of particular importance in these countries – between quotation marks. Above all, we must not forget one thing: We have a common history with many of these states, and Austria enjoys great confidence in these states. We should benefit from this confidence and actively offer assistance here. The experience of my trip to these countries was that this assistance is also very much accepted and we can contribute significantly to reforms in the various areas. I refer here to the areas of basic book reform, judicial organizations, training of judges and prosecutors. I believe that these measures, the transfer of our successful judicial policy to these countries, will also make a significant contribution to the fact that Austrian businesses, whether banks or small and medium-sized enterprises, whether industrial firms, can also take a very good foothold in these countries, as is already the case. That is, as I mean, a right and good way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Europe is a challenge and that we Austrians should face this challenge. But I also believe that it is particularly important to keep an eye on what really needs to be solved at European level and what we should be doing in Austria, because this concerns our sovereignty. It is important to find the right balance here, for the benefit of Europe, but above all, for the benefit of our citizens in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1215	We are now going into the debate. I can remind you that each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes, with no speaker being allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes. Only motions for resolutions can be tabled in the debate. The debate now opens up to Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1243	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has recently been discussed in Austria about the meaning of this European Union, the meaning of international cooperation in different fields of politics. Some then suggest that there is no need for all of this, and believe that it would be best to leave this European Union because we can manage everything alone in Austria, the island of the Blessed, under the cheese bell. Well: Criticism of the European Union is appropriate in many areas. Much is resolved at multilateral level, which would be better resolved at national, even regional level. But others are rightly organized at this European level, sometimes even too little. One of the most important principles where we must recognise that this cannot be guaranteed at regional or national level is security. And the security of a country, the security of the population is probably one of the most basic needs of every person. We have an absolute interest in focusing on improving security standards on our continent at the level of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We know that international criminal gangs, drug cartels, trafficking rings do not stop outside national borders. These are perfectly organized, using state-of-the-art technologies, networked worldwide. There must also be an internationally networked legal system that is against it. There must be international cooperation, there must be a network of data, and there must be a clear commitment to the joint fight against these criminal activities. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am very glad that you, in the context of the Austrian Presidency, have also given real impetus to these negotiations. As a small country, which we still have Schengen external borders, we benefit from this. Security in Europe is also security for Austria, security for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, and Mrs. Partik-Pablé, too, have referred to the subject of asylum law. We're interested in it. Especially Austria is affected by illegal immigration, but also by other countries. We have just seen the conditions in Malta, where tens of thousands of illegal immigrants are stranded and you do not know what to do with them. In Italy, there is the same problem. There must be uniform standards. It cannot be that, for example, a country has this responsibility by simply saying that we are not interested in it, we all leave it somewhere in the country and they have the opportunity to travel and wander around the European Union. The proposal made by Mrs Partik-Pablé, that such reception centres be established outside the European Union, where it is checked whether the asylum seekers have real asylum grounds before reaching the European Union, is a very good proposal, which should also be supported at EU level. There must also be a burden compensation. For many years, Austria alone has taken over this burden in dealing with the security of the external border. There should also be support from the European Union, particularly in cooperation with the new Member States of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The fight against terrorism – also an important issue, which can clearly only be solved internationally: on the one hand, through the networking of intelligence information, but above all through prevention. And prevention means also ensuring stable and safe conditions outside the borders of the European Union. It is often discussed in Austria what we have lost in peacekeeping, such as on the Golan, in Afghanistan or in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if you know where the international drug groups are getting their drugs from, for example, Afghanistan, when you know where international crime is located and where it comes from, like from the Balkan countries, when you know where the illegal flows of refugees come from, exactly from these regions, then you know that stabilisation in these countries also means security for Austria. And we are interested in ensuring that the people of these countries, for example, through development cooperation, a future perspective for their lives in their home countries, so that they do not have an incentive to fall on tow bands and come to Europe, here looking for a future that they cannot find. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, we also support the development of common capacities for a European security and defence structure and security and defence. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, this also includes a common foreign policy, on the issues of justice, on security, on the issues of stabilisation in Europe and beyond, and we are still waiting for the joint initiatives of the European Union. Finally, one thing that, as I mean, is very important: We have also discussed in Europe what the basic values of the European Union look like. I remember the intense discussions and the outpourings, for example, after the cartoon fight. We have recently discussed this very intensively in a discussion with representatives of the Islamic faith. In this context, it is also necessary to say that there are human rights, fundamental and freedom rights in Europe, which still have restrictions, which are part of our culture and our social order and therefore unchangeable. There is freedom of the press, there is freedom of expression, there is a code of opinion and human rights to which we stand, wherever we demand that it be respected and respected by others on our continent, but of course there are also restrictions on these freedoms. Where the freedom of one intervenes in the freedom of the other, there are the barriers. But these barriers can only set the legal order, no one else can decide where these barriers are, but only the legal order given by democratically legitimate bodies and parliaments. Where a person feels hurt in his own right, he can and must take the right course. And if he gets right there, it's all right, and if he doesn't get right, he must accept this decision of the courts as well. This has been clarified here. That is why it is also so important that we support this European Constitution. In this context too, it is asked: What do we need that for? – If we insist that we have a system of values in Europe, a legal system with principles to which we stand, where we demand that new entrants of this legal system, such a system of values, should also be recognised, we must also define them. It is therefore so important that we come to this Constitutional Code, where there will be a catalogue of human rights for the first time, where there is a clear commitment to democracy and the rule of law. The democratic principle, the rule of law and human rights – this is probably the basic consensus we have here in Europe, from which we cannot go, because we are proud of it. We must continue to do so accordingly. The Ministers of Justice and the Ministers of the Interior are on this way. I hope that we will also be in the second place. Half of the Presidency is getting a solution to the questions in the European Constitution, because it would also be a sign that Europe is interfering in many things, where it would be better not to do so, but that there is no alternative in far-reaching areas of people's living together on this continent than the common solution to open issues and problems. This can only be done within the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1349	Mrs Fekter is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1370	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! EU justice policy is based on security for people, security in the EU for EU citizens. This means protecting against crime, fighting crime, fighting terrorism, fighting drug trafficking, against organised crime, but that also means fighting financial crime and, above all, security for civil matters. EU cooperation is necessary, because crime does not stop at national borders. We need a criminal register that is equally accessible to all countries. It must recognize the executive in Great Britain's criminal energy as well as those in our neighbouring countries or with us in Austria. This requires an intensive exchange of information. To this end, Europol, the European Police Station, and Eurojust, the European body to coordinate this exchange of information, have been created. In addition, to combat this crime and this criminal energy, there is a need for equal standards. The problem of different criminal provisions has already been addressed. It is necessary that all have to comply with similar laws, for it is not a matter of being criminal, for example, in Austria, but not in our neighbouring countries, where the same perpetrators are free to run around. This is why cooperation in the EU is so important. That is why we need the EU so much. We need the recognition of judicial decisions, for those who have been sentenced in us should be seen as perpetrators throughout the EU and not be able to move freely in another EU country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These standards and harmonisation work very well in the EU and are well advanced. In particular, we also have excellent cooperation with the new EU countries in the East. Standards, which mean criminal action, generally apply equally in the EU. Not so we have these standards in the Caribbean, for example. We do not have extradition agreements with all the countries in the Caribbean, where these standards do not apply, for example in the case of financial crime, where these disclosure obligations do not apply, and there is no recognition to the same degree. With EU directives, we produce these standards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: Liechtenstein: Foundations, financial services!]] We implemented an EU directive in autumn last year, where we tightened the balance sheet rules for banks – the SPÖ voted against – where we strengthened the supervisory board obligations for large companies – the SPÖ voted against. [[Abg. Neudeck: Aha!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Aware of why!]] The EU is equally clear about such directives what is right and what is criminal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Criminal activities in the banking sector are therefore not as easy as possible within the EU to comply with the rules. They are much easier in the Caribbean, for example in Anguilla, where those seven letterbox companies on which BAWAG has raised the funds. [[Abg. Oils: Liechtenstein!]] It is unfortunate that we have no access in these tax havens and that these standards are not complied with. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you can see how important the EU is with its directives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fight against crime, on the one hand, is about the protection of citizens directly, but also about the protection of citizens' assets, the financial contributions, the detection of drug funds and the financing of terrorism. All of this is much easier within the EU due to good cooperation. This is not as easy as possible in the tax havens in the Caribbean, because there you hide not only from the tax, but there is also the criminal energy at home. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is necessary that we intensify this work, that we work together in the EU to ensure that the fight against crime leads to greater security for our citizens and to the protection of our citizens' assets.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1473	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. He also wants to speak for 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1494	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Fekter, I actually had another speech prepared, namely one in connection with the EU, because the President-in-Office also called for fewer everyday topics to be devoted to today than EU issues. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have to explain this to people!]] But, of course, I would like to go into this after you wanted to break the debate at this level. I want you because You cut the BAWAG affair back here, maybe just two things say: This is what we find – we know since yesterday – that Grasser has long known about this scandal. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] And I really wonder why nobody did anything. - That's the first point. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance said that these are practices as we know them from all banks. – Please clarify You really do, and don't try so tight to get out of this topic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased when we talk about Europe, because from the beginning we are Europe as a reasonable, not only economic, but also social We have seen unity and, of course, we as social democrats are an international party. With great stress and regret, we are actually seeing what you, especially the Federal Chancellor, within this presidency, are really able to shape this potential and what you are doing from it – nothing! I would ask myself what would have moved a Kreisky, a Vrnitzky in the international society for Austria, and not what the Federal Chancellor is doing... – Mr. Molterer, you do not need to be so nervous, let me speak out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't happen to leave out the only one who has really had a presidency: climate you have forgotten!]] [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] I would like to have an objective discussion. If you jump around there and roar, it won't be useful. I can only quote: This is your party friend, who says, up to mid-term, he recognizes here in Austria a series of events, but no decisions that do a little bit further in the individual working phases. We're moderated around. We're not bringing anything else. The opportunity we had as Austrians to make progress in Europe has not been used. There's enough know-how! There's enough we could be proud of! This does not include the highest unemployment rate and not the highest youth unemployment rate in the Second Republic, which you have to attach to your flags! There are, however, many good approaches that we could have marketed here in Europe. Unfortunately, we did not. When we talk about criminal law policy, when we talk about different systems in Europe, how we can learn from each other how to implement the best-practice models, it is not possible, Mrs. Partik-Pablé – you said it yourself in the committee – to realize that there is unfortunately a development in Austria that is disturbing. You know that. Not only do we have the worst economic indicators, but we also have the worst crime rate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And I'm not happy with God that I have to say this. The figures are clear: There is an increase in crime by 22.7% between 1999 and 2005. And I didn't write that out somewhere, but I took that from the statistical figures. [[Abg. Rädler: Oja, from Vienna!]] There is an increase in crime from 22.72 percent, and at the same time the Enlightenment rate, ladies and gentlemen – and that is not something you can be proud of – has fallen from 51.4 to 39 percent. I wonder why you don't think about what improvements you can aim for in this regard, but just stand up to the speaker's desk and explain how great we are. [[Abg. Wheeler: BAWAG!]] I would like us to be great, I would like us to be an economic show country and not have the greatest unemployment in the Second Republic. And I would like us to have less crime and higher education rates, but this is your success, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to call it that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also tell you why. It is not true that there is no reason for this. Mrs Partik-Pablé, we have just discussed this in committee. The topic of asylum policy: There is no day when you do not declare that you want to have a better asylum policy. What is the subject in this context? We all know that we unfortunately have God's longest asylum applications, that is, the asylum procedure lasts the longest in all of Europe in Austria. They know very well – and this is the responsibilityless in the situation – that the organized criminals, when sending out their groups, which are practicing crime here – and this is organized crime – select precisely those countries in which asylum procedures last for the longest time, because the gangs can be most active. I can tell you that a very simple solution to this issue would be to simply build up the Bundesasylsenat, as all the experts tell you, and to shorten the time of asylum. [[Abg. Ellwall: We did it!]] Then you could get an improvement right away. You obviously do not want this against better knowledge, and for that you should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kainz: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: To the same extent that asylum access is difficult, the visa scandal, where visas have been sold in different embassies – I am still waiting for an investigation – has been established, and the price of the black market has increased to the infinite. The poorest of the poor are still being cast down! Minister of Justice, I appreciate You personally extraordinary, and we also know that you are making good proposals – alone, these proposals cannot be implemented. I have nothing of it if I am happy to announce something, and the next day the opposite happens. We've seen it again this week. The anti-talking law is about improving protection mainly for children, young people and women who are persecuted by someone who goes 20 metres behind them. That's where we suggested the opposition, and it's supposed to be the executive who's in charge of the police. That's what you asked at the beginning. The Minister for the Interior, however, the ÖVP has blocked! I would have liked to know what a German Chancellor's bowl is really about if he put on his flags that young people, children and women who are persecuted should not use the executive immediately. You should be ashamed of this kind of legislation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we would have been pleased if we had used this European Presidency to be an example in Europe. But the procedure we are experiencing in Carinthia with the local boards, a country captain who completely explains what he holds from the Constitutional Court, a federal chancellor sitting silently next to and trembling that his coalition does not fly apart – that is to be a European standard, a European standard? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great! It's enough now!]] Austria is becoming a mockery in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Federal Chancellor and thanks to your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we have no more time for God, but we come with more information. I would have liked us to have a place in Europe, as we had it under Vranckky, as we had it under Kreisky. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Austria under bowl – I have to say: I hope that this time will pass soon! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1673	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1694	Mr President. Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mr Jarolim's speech. Mrs. Federal Minister, I am pleased that you are turning to the former Yugoslavian states in their capacity as Austrian Minister of Justice and are offering something like help in expanding the judicial systems. This is highly appreciated by the Greens. We support all these measures, which are not new to Austria. This has also happened in the states of the so-called East Block in recent years. The only question is whether the initiative, and the relationship with the EU Presidency, is a little different from what it is all about in this area as regards the initiatives of the Western Balkans and the Presidency – and you are the chairman of the relevant Council – there are Austrian initiatives that go beyond that. I am now addressing something quite specific about thousands and thousands of Austrians who have or have their relatives in the Balkans, namely, visa policy. I would be very interested, Mrs. Minister, whether you have ever thought about what this means for young people, for example from Crna Gora, Montenegro or Serbia, who, up to about 15 years ago, were able to travel the same way we could across Europe, to look freely at Paris, Vienna, Prague, Budapest, London, because we are all Europeans. Do you know, Mrs. Minister, how this is today when you're a young person in Belgrade? – You cannot get out of the country because there is no European country where you can enter without a visa. I would have expected from you, Mrs Minister, but also from the responsible Austrian Minister of the Interior, who is also President of the Council and President-in-Office of the Council, in this EU half-year, in which Austria has the Presidency of the Council, that we, as Austrians, also have relatives there in the sense of such close historical links and of close connexe with the Balkans and also on the basis of this so-called overlapping population group – I mean the people who emigrated decades ago, and with whom this exchange is not possible – to take initiatives. That is what our citizens are interested in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This could be a real contribution, Mrs Minister, for Europeans to be brought closer together. But I have not heard from you today, let alone from the Austrian Minister for the Interior in recent months. But let me now, as it were, continue to do so and come to your remarks on asylum policy. Klubobmann Scheibner spoke again about Burden Sharing, it has to be distributed the loads. Yes, it's about sharing, it's about sharing something, but in the case of responsibility: Responsibility Sharing would be announced in the European Union in dealing with crisis situations associated with irregular migration on the one hand, but above all with conflicts that exist worldwide. Refugee movements arise, people must flee to Austria, but also to other Western European countries, because they seek protection from persecution. It would be a very clear case, Mrs Minister, that a country like Austria, which has something to show in terms of asylum tradition over the past 50 years, so to speak, across Europe. I just need to say: Tag Hungary 1956, then Czechoslovakia 1968, Poland's crisis, but also the war in the Balkans in the nineties, where the Republic of Austria and its population have demonstrated a performance in terms of aid that can be seen across Europe. . Now we in the Presidency would be exactly those who, when it comes to this common asylum policy, can also come forward. That's why I'm asking: What's the matter with you? You have not said anything about it, that is why I ask! What is there with regard to the asylum agency, which is on the agenda, is that asylum decisions should be monitored by the Member States, together with the UNHCR, which I strongly support, in order to decide guidelines for a European asylum authority. – I have not heard of it in recent months from the Austrian EU Presidency! I am very concerned, and it is clear that in the Austrian Presidency, exactly what we are doing is happening in Austria, that we are appearing everywhere where repression is concerned, where we are concerned, how to tighten up, limit rights, take rights. If it were not so, Mrs Minister, you should have taken a position here on the idea that Mrs Partik-Pablé has formulated here if it is said that regional protection programmes should be decided. We of the Greens have nothing against regional protection programmes, absolutely not. Such regional protection programmes are more than necessary. However, the questions to be resolved in the case of so-called regional protection programmes are as follows: Is it outside the territory of the European Union if, for example, shelters are formed in countries outside the European Union or if there are considerations about the Geneva Convention on Refugees? What about the European Convention on Human Rights? As is the case in such a way. Is asylum procedures carried out by the camps? How is repatriation organized? Is it possible for those in need of protection to enter the European Union? These are the points, Mrs Minister, which would interest us in harmonizing asylum policy and migration policy in Europe, but unfortunately I have missed any opinion from you today on such initiatives. Now I come to that point, ladies and gentlemen, where it would, as it were, be perfectly normal to have reactions within a Presidency: It is the daily refugee tragedy in Europe. Every day! People in the Mediterranean are drowning daily because Europe is not only harsh and does not allow people to enter, but because it refuses to help them. This is actually support, a direct support that people will die because they are denied help. In fact, last autumn, when there was great helplessness at the level of the European Union, I expected Austria to make proposals and say: This is not just a human tragedy, it is a political challenge. As the Austrian Presidency, we are initiating Fact-Finding-Missions directly on site! Let's take a look at the situation! Let us see how decent camps that are being set up are equipped! I would like to see a country which, in a sense, has a moral and historical right to submit, too, that we should now do so during the Presidency of the Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have not been able to expect it from other countries in the past, have not expected it, nor have these initiatives been set up. One last, Mrs Minister, because you have emphasized here the system of values that should be reflected in criminal proceedings. In this respect, I have very specific questions to you. You have been the Council President for three months now. The question is: What exactly did you do on those points that are missing in order to continue this mutual recognition of judicial decisions that you have spoken of, namely the minimum standards for judicial proceedings? – That would interest me because this is the missing link. That sounds so great when you say: Ah, punishment in the home countries! – This will not be so long, Mrs Minister, as long as there are no these minimum standards for judicial proceedings guaranteed in all EU countries. And Austria is blocking here, because Austria was a country that has refused approval in individual points. I really want to see this so that it does not give the impression that Austria is making so much progress. Nothing's gone on yet, Mrs. Minister! These are the points which really interest the judicial politicians in Austria, because that would be a result that one could actually show after the Presidency of the Council. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Minister, you have three months left. I hope you use it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1809	The next speaker is Mr Fauland. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1831	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in the first three months, especially our Minister of Justice has offered an excellent performance, and I also congratulate her on how well she represents Austria and the interests of Austria in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The need for people here in Austria and also within the European Union, as well as worldwide, is, of course, a need for protection. They expect security, and security is a fundamental value that every state has to offer across all party borders. It is protection against organised crime, terrorism, irregular immigration and, above all, asylum issues. The problem of asylum has also been raised by Mr Jarolim's speech. If he addresses the numbers of the elevated criminals here, I would like to note that 43 percent of all perpetrators who are in prison in Austria are not Austrians. Maybe you should think about it once, instead of freezing any statistics to represent a false picture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the backlog in asylum issues is concerned, this is probably due to the fact that there is still a part of the backlog to legislation among socialist ministers of the interior and that we have taken out the optimum with the new asylum law that we have made, as far as the international framework is possible. In particular, the Socialists were one of those parties that raised international conventions without external pressure in the constitutional rank, such as the European Convention on Human Rights or the Geneva Convention, which, of course, greatly restricts us in our independent actions. The reason for these conventions at that time was certainly another one. Today we need to talk about massive migration in the area of immigration. That was certainly not the reason to make these conventions at the time. Austria is certainly a model country in Europe as far as the foreign law package is concerned. For this reason, I believe that further development towards a common European asylum law is a necessary and important step in order to address this problem at European level. I would like to comment on the area of crime: Yesterday, we discussed the Prüm Treaty; a treaty within the European Union – without the consent of the Greens who once again had data protection concerns – which makes it possible for Austria alone to track 12 000 data in criminal cases in the DNA comparison, and it can be assumed that we will be able to resolve over 100 crimes only through this networking of the individual states' information at a time. Another, perhaps rather trivial, point, but one of my concern is, for example, cooperation on the problem of transport penalties. In Austria, we have the problem that Germans can race through Austria without being prosecuted. That is why it is a very essential point for all European citizens to be treated equally at European level, because it is not to be seen that only the Austrians are asked to register. The Germans and members of other European countries are also to be asked to register. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Very right!]] Another point that I personally care about is cooperation in the field of drug control. The fight against drugs does not stop at national borders – the fight against drugs must be a European concern! Our youth can be protected from drugs, because only without drugs does our youth have a future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a last point, I would like to point out that European cooperation is also essential in the field of new technologies when looking at online crime or cyberspace issues. Austria also has several million trade contracts with Ebay, each year in the meantime, every 30 minutes even a car is auctioned in Austria. It is necessary to protect consumers from the possibilities that this medium offers for criminals. I think we're on the right track. I also wish the Minister of Justice every good for the next three months and I am fully convinced that she will do the best for Austria and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1900	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. His speaking time is set at 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1922	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would just like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Stoisits and Mr Jarolim on asylum because we cannot leave some of them in the room, I think. It should be noted, however, that the resources, even the human resources for the UBAS, were very much increased by us. In contrast to you, however, we do not see the way in which we simply catch up with everyone and then spend as much staff as possible to check it all, but we also see the use of asylum. The vast majority of cases, which are not then allowed to control effectively, are already at the root. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned that a common European economic area needs security, above all; Security, on the one hand, in the form of personal security, security from war, but also from violence, from terrorist attacks, from attacks against body and life, as well as from intervention into physical integrity, on the other hand legal certainty, that is, security from criminal attacks against property, security that certain rules of play are also observed in private and in economic life, and one can simply rely on certain things. It is therefore also of particular importance that, especially in times when crime has long existed, in many areas cross-border and international, and, by the way, even trade unions and trade union banks do not hesitate to move money internationally and to disappear into dark canals in the Caribbean, as unfortunately we have had to be amazed and appalled in recent days and weeks, to note that in such times, countries in the fight against crime and terrorism jointly organize themselves – worldwide, but also, of course, and especially at European level. The European Union has therefore already decided in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1999 to preserve and develop Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice. In the same year in Tampere and later in the Hague in 2004, the Hague programme also provided for appropriate measures by the Member States. Member States have decided to implement this common area of security, freedom and justice. I am therefore particularly pleased that the important cooperation, particularly in the areas of the fight against drugs, the fight against terrorism, asylum issues, but also the very delicate issue of police cooperation, which naturally involves a gratification between good and efficient exchange of information between police authorities and, on the other hand, the important fundamental right to data protection, is being intensified, particularly in order to ensure that such work is carried out. The fact that this is also a priority for the Austrian Presidency shows the meetings already held, the EU Drug Coordinator Meeting in Innsbruck in February, the EU Council of Ministers for the Interior and Justice on 20 and 21. Two further Council meetings on security and justice in Brussels in the first half of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! As important as international cooperation on police and judicial matters is today is, however important it is, in my opinion, to point to the great importance and, above all, to the role of a rapid and unlimited investigation and a clean and transparent handling of large and prominent criminal cases, as last at BAWAG and ÖGB, also in Austria, in our country. For criminal law and a functioning judicial system should not only enable and impose effective law enforcement and subsequent punishment on offenders, but also, above all, to establish important rules of conduct for living together, as well as for conduct on legal and economic matters, and to ensure that these rules are complied with by a model function, but also, of course, by deterrence. However, it is not only necessary to do this, but, as I believe, it is vitally vital that political officials, political mandates, as well as large public organisations and associations such as the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and its representatives are particularly sensitive to these rules of play and to the rules of political and economic hygiene. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is particularly worrying and, in the sign of law-reliance and political cleanliness, also particularly counterproductive if in the last few days high and highest functionalaries of SPÖ, up to their chairman Dr. Gusenbauer, have tried to misuse the unlawful use of 1 billion € – let this be broken on the tongue: 1 billion euros! – to trade unionism, without the involvement of the relevant bodies, and to serve as a heroic hero. While every small club owner and every small club registerr who violates the club's ability is right to expect the full hardness of the law and draconian punishments, it is here pretended as if nothing actually happened and that had only been an act necessary for survival. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, especially you, Mr Gusenbauer, to make a clear and clear commitment to a clean and comprehensible handling of the contributions of more than 1.3 million trade union members from the Malversations at BAWAG, ÖGB, ARBÖ and to ensure a merciless and comprehensive Enlightenment!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e1977	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Your welcome time: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2000	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Back to Justice Policy! There are cases that go to a huge heart, for example, when a child comes, keeps the upper arm constantly, then we ask and see what the child has there, and have to notice that it has a deep burn added with a lighter, and then it turns out that it was the towder because the child just stole too little. Or: A child – also again; because it has stolen too little – has been fed to the prostitution and in turn hit a pervert that has bruised his chest. – These are cases where it is impossible to imagine which torments the people are exposed to by their torments. You certainly wonder, dear Ladies and gentlemen, what this is about. – This was a quote from Mr Ceipek, who works at the Office for Youth and Family in Vienna. He said this on Tuesday in the ORF report on human trafficking. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, some of you have seen this show. 20 807 towed persons were picked up in Austria, and among these 20 807 people were 2,497 children! That's a really tragic story. Something has to be done here, something has to be done across Europe, Mrs Minister! [[General condolences.]] It is no secret that trafficking in women and children is a massive problem of modern slavery – and that in the midst of the EU! It is estimated that 500 000 women are being dragged into Western Europe. These are facts, and that is objectionable! What kind of society do we even live in?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] 78 percent of the victims of trafficking in women are subjected to forced prostitution. There are no more young women in some villages in Moldova. The women are leaving where they believe that a better life is waiting for them. There are no women under 25 in some villages in Moldova. They come to Europe, however, the dream of paradise is not fulfilled, and often these women will have to sell body and soul as prostitutes. Lost is the self-esteem, the dignity of man is lost. The profits of dealers and holder rings, ladies and gentlemen, are now estimated at € 7 to 15 billion. Business with the good man is a good, a thriving business and has now taken third place after the drug and arms trade. And that must be stopped, ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing a successful judicial policy for the benefit of Austria and European security today, I ask you, Mrs Gastinger: Where in Europe is safety guaranteed for these women and children? Is judicial policy really that successful? Is it for the benefit of Austria, even if this kind of barbarism prevails with us? – Something has to be done here! If the Hague Programme of November 2004 sets out the objective of strengthening freedom, security and justice in the EU, I ask you, Mrs Minister: Is there not a huge contradiction between these objectives and reality in Europe? A number of conventions have already been discussed and adopted, as Mrs Fekter has just mentioned, on the subject of ‘human trafficking’; introduced by the UN, the Council of Europe, and dealt with in the Austrian Parliament. But apparently – I say that now – the efforts were not large enough, because security, freedom and justice do not apply to the victims of modern slavery. We from the Socialist Group have put in a demand catalogue in January of this year. This claim catalogue should be implemented as soon as possible. We need precise data, we need a co-ordination and coordination body. It is necessary to cooperate at all European levels with the countries of the Council of Europe. – That’s something important, that’s something necessary. The European Union and the countries dealing with children and women must cooperate accordingly. There is a need for action here, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the networks must also be smashed! I say – we have heard today via media that a high police officer has been suspended due to the suspicion of abuse of office –: It must be determined without regard to the person, whether in justice or the police, wherever such a suspicion occurs, and across all borders! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Scheibner – you were also a member of the Council of Europe –: I do not care what has been done here today by Mr Fauland. It cannot be doubted here that the European Convention on Human Rights must continue to apply. We must be proud that it is in the constitutional order, that European human rights apply in Austria, and that compliance with the relevant provisions is also exemplary by means of our standards. – This is something important, and I say that to you, Mr Scheibner; They were a member of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2065	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Your welcome time is 7 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2086	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I fully agree with my previous speaker, but would like to turn my speech in a different direction. Ms. Minister of Justice! I too, like my colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, am delighted and very pleased that you, too, have traveled as Minister of Justice to South-East Europe within the Council Presidency, focusing on the importance of judicial reforms, the creation of legal certainty, and the fact that there are also useful initiatives on this from the Austrian side. But an expectation that I have put in the Austrian Presidency has not been fulfilled, and I also follow the remarks made by my colleague Teresa Stoisits: In each of these South Eastern European countries, young people are constantly being told how important it is to adapt their country, their justice et cetera to European standards, but at the same time they have no chance to visit other countries, because they need a visa, and this often costs more than their parents earn in a month. There is one exception: Those who have Croatian passports, either in Croatia or in Bosnia-Her-zeowina, where individuals come from Croatian families, have the opportunity to travel the EU without a visa. Now imagine, you're young, you're just doing the Matura or you're an apprentice and you want to visit this EU with a group of friends to find out what's happening there, how the young people live there, what's so special about this European Union, that everyone has to say, you have to do everything to join, and then it says: No, you were born in another country – imagine that would be the case with us: you were born in Turkey, you were born in Switzerland or you were born in South Africa – unfortunately you need a visa for the EU states, and that costs so much, more than your parents deserve in a month. Unfortunately, your group cannot take this trip together. You have to stay at home, you can't afford it. Do you know what that means for so young people who have no prospects to do something economically, to have a job that will make them fun, an education that will make them fun, if they are not allowed to travel, especially at an age where you simply want to get to know everything and everything? Many of them may follow those who go towards extremism, towards nationalism, and that is dangerous – for these people themselves, for this country, but of course also for Austria and for the European Union. I have already told Mrs. Foreign Minister Plassnik – but she has never given me an answer –: It would be a good initiative to say now within the framework of the EU Presidency of Austria: Every EU country invites a hundred young people from a country of south-eastern Europe in summer, who are supposed to travel with Interrail or come on another way so that they can finally get to know this EU Europe, so that they know what we are telling them and also the elites in these countries! Why is there no such initiative? Why is that not? This is something I would like you to know, Mrs Minister, that this area of freedom and security and justice will also be felt for young people in the South-East European states. It's too little that they can only see it on paper. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, however, it would have to go in the direction of actually introducing visas for these countries, because they were finally and finally allowed to travel until 15 years ago, and now, at once, only a few and only those who can afford it can afford it. Another point that limits the area of security and freedom, this beautiful picture: What happens in Austria to people who have married people from non-EU countries and who have requested the residence permit last year? The relevant law has been amended, and now they are being postponed. Recently, such a case has also gone through the media: A Chinese woman married to an Austrian had to leave this country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She was illegal here!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé, what you do with your foreign right, that is, that you assume that all marriages with people who do not come from the EU area are so-called "shine". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: She didn't say that!]] That's racist! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why is that racist?]] Because you put that under your law, that's what it's supposed to be! These people must first prove that they love each other so that they can live here. That's racism! They assume that if someone with Austrian citizenship marries someone from a non-EU country who is a sham. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why? No one says that!]] They do not seem to believe that there are people who actually fall in love with someone who is from another country and do not believe that these people also have the right to live here in Austria – and do not have to leave this country. In Austria, it is now a shame to deal with strangers, and that is a shame for the EU Presidency of Austria. In a similar way, Mrs Minister, I was delighted to hear that you said that you had such a positive impression from the European Parliament. I'm very glad. You know that the European Parliament took place on 18 November. Those who vote in favour of the same respect, respect and the same protection as other citizens of a society, and are called on all Member States to finally end the discrimination that exists, for example in inheritance law, in rental law, in pension law, in the case of taxes? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are these people too? Thank you! What does “conservative people ” mean? Is that human beings, too?]] Now I know you're the ones who dared to be the only one in your party and in that government. They wanted a legal institution for same-sex couples. I was very happy. However, the problem is that neither your party – the head of the club Scheibner has plowed you back immediately – nor the government is behind you. Madam Minister, a “government swallow” unfortunately does not make a summer for same-sex couples for a long time, and I am always personally affected when people call me and tell me: What do I have to do now? I have no right in Austria to live here with my partner or with my partner! - This relationship is breaking. That cannot be the symbol of freedom and justice! Finally, Mr Scheibner and Mr Scheibner are pleased to mention that development cooperation and development policy are also important for stabilisation and democratisation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What else do you want to talk bad?]] The problem is also: Big words, but there is no action! [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] Austria is still in the lower field of real achievements for development cooperation, it is almost entirely at the end of the ranking. You said, Mr Scheibner, that this is a factor in the stabilisation and democratisation of countries outside Europe and that this is also in our interest. - That's right. But it is primarily in the interest of those people who live there. [[Abg. Scheibner: That you always go on me! I'm afraid I'm slow!]] It is their own right that they have life opportunities in their own country. And that's still different than if you're just looking for your own interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2249	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2270	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lunacek, you are actually making the move: They always try to make a law bad on the basis of any individual examples that may exist. It may happen again and again that there are people who are disadvantaged due to the current legal situation. That is true once, on the other hand, you can work to the best of your knowledge and conscience, and yet there will be. But on the basis of a few few examples, an overall package or the whole law, which is good, which is strict, which is understandable, which is especially in the interest of the population, to make bad, that is, I think, the wrong approach. One should not permanently question a good law with individual examples. I should like to address Mr Jarolim's comments for a minute before I turn to the real issue. Mr Jarolim, in the context of this debate, which is devoted to the issue of justice and security policy in Europe, held the local panel discussion. Mr Jarolim, I say to you once and for all: I'm putting myself as a Carinthian Member of Parliament likes to get out of here and tell you: I am very clear in front of my country and my people. It is immense that on every occasion you try to carry a dispute in Carinthia in a problem that we will solve very much in the interest of the population in Carinthia! In Carinthia, we will put a reasonable solution on foot in the interests of citizens and in cooperation with the communities and the citizens. The fact that you stand out here, and in the context of a European debate, I strongly condemn the Carinthian question of the placeboard as a negative propaganda. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Painful!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Puswald and Mrs Trunk, please touch your own nose and see how you can solve the problem in Carinthia! Her party president Gabi Schaunig-Kanduth was still unable to offer a solution. [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is a lie!]] We will offer solutions in this matter. We will solve the issue of the local map and thus prove that we have a good grip on our country and can lead it properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2324	Mrs. Trunk, the word “loyal” takes you back, right? [[Abg. May. Trunk shakes his head.]] You don't take it back. Then I'll give you a call for order. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I call Mr Scheuch.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2355	Now on security and asylum policy in Europe, one of my very important issues which my previous speakers, Dr. Partik-Pablé and Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, have already discussed. It is quite clear that we need to find a European Connex that, in the medium term and in the long term, we will only be able to solve the problems in the asylum field or in the immigration field and, in conjunction with them, the problems relating to crime and to the bandage sector in the European context. At the Austrian level, I would like to mention that, many good and right steps have already been taken, as my colleague Markus Fauland has already done. We managed in Austria under Minister Karin Gastinger to send a very good asylum law or foreign law on the journey. We have managed to hit the first stakes and to set up markers to which people can see that the new laws work. We have decided to make clear provisions, to speed up the procedures, to stop abuse, and to achieve a speedy postponement of the perpetrators. The Asylum Act has been made more stringent, and now the first successes are evident. For example, we had a 4 per cent reduction in asylum applications in January, and in February it was already more than 20 per cent. So you can see: If you make laws with a lot of feeling, but with the necessary hardness, you also serve the country in the final effect. But we must also use these laws to continue this at European level. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, we are a show country. In many areas, we are able to take the lead in Europe, for example in employment policy, economic policy and asylum policy – unfortunately also in scandalism policy, as now at the BAWAG. [[Numerous calls to the SPÖ.]] A scandal like the one at BAWAG is not a second time throughout Europe. The fact that a party with its trade union alliance puts billions of euros in the sand of the Caribbean is immense. [[Abg. Reheis: Top unemployment!]] Even here we are unfortunately at the top, but for this we have to thank the left half of the empire so to speak. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Top youth unemployment!]] We have done good work here, and we will continue to do good work! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude my remarks with a clear mandate to the Federal Government. As a parliamentarian, I would like to address not only the request but also the call to the Federal Government that those legislative initiatives we have set up in this Federal Government over the last six years be implemented at European level, because this model of Europe, which is being discussed very much, can only function under certain conditions and under certain mechanisms. I think that a good asylum and security law at European level will be one of the most important building blocks, yes, so that the model Europe does not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2423	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2492	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If an Austrian is abroad and you ask him: What do you miss most in Austria?, he says: the water, an intact environment, a top health care and safety. Austria is one of the world's few countries where you can ride the subway in the middle of the night, without having to fear. We're working on it to stay the same. However, we cannot do this on our own, and that is why cooperation at European level is extremely important. This applies equally to Austria's economic location. No manager – with this there is no company headquarters – wants to work in a country in which his children and himself do not feel safe. That is to say, the question of how many jobs are created in a country is directly linked to security in a country. At the same time, we face completely new challenges. There are the new technologies which, on the one hand, contribute to economic growth and job creation up to a quarter, but on the other hand they present us with completely new challenges in the creation of the appropriate legal framework and in the fight against criminal machinations. In this context, I remember the last cases of phishing where someone tries to access people's account data via the Internet. All of us have shocked cases of Internet child pornography. These are cases where hair-driving images are traded on the web. We can imagine how difficult it is to really grasp the criminals behind it. You certainly remember the attacks of Madrid, where bombs were fired by means of mobile phones that were bought anonymously. These are all new challenges that we must face. These new technologies – which corresponds to their most original being – are positive and negative. They automatically cross boundaries, of course. And there Austria cannot act alone. The European Union has established a legal framework for safe trade on the Internet, and Austria has implemented it accordingly. In this context, questions such as: How do I know who my contract or my business partner is? We also have homework to do in Austria. In fact, no single institute in all of Austria is yet concerned with questions of e-law. In the context of civil law, this is hardly yet to be taught. We need more people in Austria who are trained in this area. We need them in the field of justice, we need them at European level, and we particularly need them in the area of police and police cooperation in Europe. It is no longer a question of responsibilities and hierarchies – and that is where all our administrative and public authorities are in demand, but it is about the optimal networking of the European authorities. Then: The criminals are also connected and are not “competent” for something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As it is faster to be trained in order to be more targeted, as it is optimal to cooperate with the authorities of the neighbouring countries, the European States, it is of all existential importance for a safe life and economy in Europe. But we also have other challenges to overcome. Especially in the last few days, we all have no idea that economics and crime are far more difficult to suspect than the crime of the small shoplifter. It is immediately held accountable, while in the other case it is not so easy. It is therefore important that, within the framework of our EU Presidency, the Federal Minister of Justice should focus on the fact that Europe, with countries such as the Caribbean countries, with all the offshore countries, achieve better cooperation in the judicial field, because confidence in security means that not the small shoplifter is better caught, but that in criminal cases, where the amounts are worth € 1.4 billion, for example, can be determined and accessed in terms of amounts that can no longer be imagined. This is what the people expect of us, and we must work for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2563	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Maier. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2584	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some Members of the government have used these judicial debates to evade the Social Democratic Party. [[Abg. Wattaul: We only said the truth!]] I would like to maintain one with all the clarity here: The SPÖ strongly condemns the highly risky speculation transactions of former BAWAG managers! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is not the way to deal with the money of the savers! The debtors have to be – and the judicial system already determines – held to be responsible; they also have to make personal reparations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The SPÖ gives the money back!]] At the same time, it must be said: Since April 2001, Minister of Finance Grasser has had evidence of the speculation operations of BAWAG managers. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] But he didn't do anything. He did not comply with his legal obligation. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Karl-Heinz Grasser must assume political responsibility for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The SPÖ pays back what it got!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the area of freedom, security and justice. The question we have to ask ourselves is: Is there this area of freedom, security and justice? Let us bear in mind that some European countries have abducted European citizens from American intelligence services with knowledge of national authorities in third countries! Let us remember that European citizens were probably tortured even in the presence of national police officers in third countries. I ask you: Is that the area of freedom, security and justice we are seeking? With no exception, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. These events must be strongly rejected, and European human rights must be called into question in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, when we discuss issues of justice policy, we must not only discuss criminal and police matters, but also consider civil law matters. It is about the area of law, it is about standards that each consumer is confronted with on a daily basis, and it is about problems that we in Austria have to answer for ourselves, because we have not yet implemented the European rules on consumer protection. There is now a fundamental problem in European civil law legislation that neoliberal considerations play a greater role than the purpose of protecting the law. One sees it on the one hand at competition orientation, and on the other hand one sees it when certain fundamental rights are denied to people. But, as has been said, Austria is also not implementing precisely these European measures. Mrs. Federal Minister! Since January, we have had to have an Austrian consumer protection authority – a consumer protection authority responsible for the implementation of 20 directives and regulations. I ask you: Why do we not have this authority for the implementation of these directives? I ask you: Why is sloppy implemented? Why has the passenger rights regulation, which regulates when compensation is to be paid, not yet been implemented in Austria? It's the holiday time. International airlines refuse to pay compensation to Austrian consumers. This is an Austrian problem! But I also ask you: Why are certain people in Austria excluded from rights? Why is there not yet a provision that gives every Austrian, for example, the right to a current account? – The Socialist Party’s request for this is in the Financial Committee – for three years! –, he's never been treated before. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we need the area of freedom, security and justice, but one must be clear: These arrangements must not be adopted alone in the third pillar. The third pillar of legislation is contrary to the rule of law and democracy. We must ensure that all measures under the third pillar are also dealt with in the European Parliament, but also in the national parliaments. At present, it often appears that, whenever ministers cannot enforce themselves in national parliaments, appropriate arrangements are created at European level within the framework of the third pillar. A classic example of this is the storage of data that has been rejected by the Data Protection Council in Austria and yet – and we do not forget this, Mrs. Federal Minister! –: They have agreed to this regulation and have therefore not complied with the Austrian regulations that we have decided in the Data Protection Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2692	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 8 minutes' time to speak, that is also the remaining time of the Green Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2714	Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr President Khol, we are now debating security, but you are putting me in quite a bit of uncertainty – not because of your plant and casting tips, which today kindly smile against us from the “standard” but because of your calls for order for the word “lying”. Since then, I have been guessing whether it is a matter of gender, whether it is allowed to say the word ‘lying’ or not, whether it is at the age – which I would not give you as a convinced democrat and parliamentarian – whether it is part of an opposition or a government party or whether it is in geography. The word “loyal” must not come from the plenary session, it must not come from the speaker’s desk, but it must come from the government bank. – Maybe you can take this uncertainty on occasion and clarify me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2738	I'd like to do that, ladies and gentlemen. It is about the concrete accusation of lying to a particular person.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2753	I would like to read this in the minutes of Mr Finanzminister's speech. - Thank you. [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch and Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] One point, however, on which any uncertainty has been resolved, is the intentions with which the government parties address some of the issues of the debate. I believe that the word 'unhappiness' can be used by a Member of this House, Mr Fauland, here publicly complains that the European Convention on Human Rights and the Geneva Convention on Refugees in Austria are in the constitutional order. Does that mean that he would like to get rid of them with the simple majority of your government so that they can no longer comply with these annoying international agreements, so that they can pass human rights in Austria with a simple majority of governments, as you do de facto with your asylum legislation anyway? Was that the intention, or how else does one come up with such a pervasive idea of producing and regretting that human rights conventions are in the constitutional rank here? – This too is at least in need of information. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have drawn a picture here or give the impression that the big problem within the EU is that we are being overrun by human beings from all over the world and hardly yet know how to deal with them. And the only thing you think of as an instrument is repression, repression and repression. – That’s how you deal with people in distress. If you look at the numbers, they speak a completely different language. There were 439 000 asylum applications in the EU-wide in 2001, with 238,000 asylum applications in the EU-wide – comparable countries – last year. It is therefore a dramatic decline of almost half. And you are still standing here pretending that the biggest problem is the growing masses of people who will not have the EU. [[Abg. Wheelers: Do not close your eyes! They're closing your eyes!]] You obviously can't count if you blame me, I shut my eyes in view of these numbers. I just showed you that it has become much less. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: But still too many!]] The problem, which actually exists, is: How are these people who are applying for asylum – I am now only talking about people who are fleeing from persecution, from the danger of life, and who are applying for asylum? Are there common standards across the EU for dealing with asylum seekers in a decent manner with refugees? The fact that Mrs Prokop has remained totally guilty is that she sets out initiatives in this regard that go towards harmonising implementation and the same standard. It is only to be borne in mind that, while considerations have been taken into account in the directive discussions on how to handle the pushy and common charter deportations, it should be assumed that one can agree on how the standards for the deportation are pushy. There is a proposal across the EU to limit the delay to a maximum of six months. Now I understand why your government is not taking an initiative at European level: Because you have written in your Austrian law, ten months of thrust are also okay, because you are far behind what is being discussed across the EU. In a second area, I also believe that there is an urgent need for harmonisation. We only need to look at the reception directives and the Dublin agreement on how the Burden Sharing works, so how the distribution of the burden – because you always assume that asylum seekers are a “last” – is to take place on the State community. The existing directives allow three close family members to be divided into three different Member States. – I consider this to be urgently in need of revision and harmonisation, and I ask myself: Where is the Minister of the Interior in her Presidency? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I wonder that too!]] And finally, There are burning problems with refugee tragedy – my colleague Stoisits has already mentioned it to you – and there are reports again and again about how many people have come back to life in the attempt to come to Spain or Italy, for example, via the Mediterranean. – These are tragedies, although they are not hundreds of thousands, but human suffering quite specifically at the door of the EU! What is the EU doing? – She puts her head in the sand instead of going here and looking: Can we guarantee at least decent standards in the camps? What do we need on the spot? How can you better organize this together? In addition, the EU closes its eyes on a future problem in its entire policy of decommissioning and repression, which is also giving priority to Austria: How, then, will we have been positioned in five, ten or 15 years in order to regulate immigration that we will need – which we need for economic development that we need for our social systems – and to be able to compete with competitors like the USA in order to allow people from Southeast Asia, from India – wherever – to migrate to the EU and come to us – people we will then urgently need? We will then find out: Unfortunately, we have built up a reputation that signals decomposition and xenophobia, and therefore nobody wants to come to us anymore – not to Austria and possibly not to the EU. – Sleep here It is quite a development anyway. Finally, when we speak of human suffering and security. While they are still the most motivated to cooperate internationally in the pursuit and fight against crime, you also have glasses on it. Fade certain forms of crime You start from the beginning; the glasses close, you don't see that. This means trafficking in human beings, which flourishes and thrives, mainly affecting women. And this is once again a subject that is not important to you – Mr Ellwall shakes your head. It is only traded women who are tossed against their will and forced either to do housework or to prostitution. There is no subject for you, it is recognized by politics, it is now recognized in the absence of any initiative during the Presidency – whether by the Minister of the Interior, or by the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is something that has been drawn from the hair! Are you saying that the Minister of Justice is...? That's shameless!]] And it is also recognised by the legislation in the area you make in Austria: Asylum for gender-specific persecution – no, thank you! Protection against trafficking in women for the victims affected – no, thank you! Protection from persecution in general – does not necessarily have to be! They focus on asylum abuse. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Look at the Minister of Justice and tell her that this is not important to her! It's insanity!]] – Mr Scheuch, you could look at what reality looks like. In this sense, one can only summarize: What you understand under EU security policy is a very unilateral representation of your ideological interests, but certainly not what we need across the EU in cooperation for greater security.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2878	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Gastinger. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e2910	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased that I have once again the opportunity to make a statement in front of you; there were, above all, some interesting speeches to which I would like to respond. I would like to begin by saying that, of course, in the area of freedom, security and justice, the area of fundamental rights is also very immanent. I think it was Mr Scheibner who mentioned the importance in this context of the EU Constitutional Treaty, which was adopted here in the National Council with a vote against, as far as I can remember, because this EU Constitutional Treaty would have provided for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights also in the Treaties of the European Union, which is not the case at present. I think many people do not know that we in the European Union, which was practically based on an economic union from the time it was founded, do not yet have a common Charter of Fundamental Rights, because that would have been an important step. I hope that with this institutional reform and also with the inclusion of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in our Treaties, we can take another big step in the right direction in a very foreseeable time. We are also essentially – and this is directly my Council – the minimum procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings by Mrs Stoisits. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that is important to me. This was also an issue that we have dealt with explicitly during our informal Council in Vienna in January, because, as you know, this Framework Decision, as it is currently under negotiation, has come to a dead end before our presidency. The Austrian Presidency under my leadership is trying to ensure that we can take very important further steps in this Framework Decision. We intend to take this officially in the Council of Ministers in April and hope that we will continue a new step by June at the latest. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is good to know, however, that there is no political agreement at European level or that we do not want it, but it is about that, as in any other legal system in Europe, we can only act on the basis of our legal framework. With regard to this Framework Decision, some Member States have massive doubts that there is a legal basis at European level in order to act practically at European level. That is the point, which is why we are basically in trouble. There is political agreement that we need minimum procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings and that we need to move forward. We also agree with the European Parliament on this point as one of the priorities. Mr Maier has argued that there is this problem between the first and the third pillars. I would just like to explain what the first and third pillars in the European context mean, because I believe that many of our listeners may not know that. It is true that Community law is regulated in the first pillar. This means that we in the Council have a qualified majority in the decision-making process. driving means co-decision with the European Parliament. The third pillar means cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, by unanimity in the Council, but only means the right of opinion of the European Parliament, which is practically a lesser involvement of the European Parliament. However, I would like to say that the data storage of stocks so criticised by you has been dealt with within the framework of the first pillar. This was a directive and this directive was adopted with the consent of the European Parliament and with very close involvement of the European Parliament. At this point I can expressly say that it was an Austrian initiative – we had not yet the Presidency – and that we have been able to work very strongly to ensure that abuse provisions are contained in this directive. In particular, we have also noted that, following the internal Austrian opinions, in particular with regard to data protection, which is particularly important to us, the Commission has urged that we now also have a proposal for a European data protection regulation on the table, which we are negotiating in the Council in the working groups. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That was something we wanted from the Austrian point of view and what succeeded in enabling the Commission to continue to do so. – So far to the protection of fundamental rights, which is always particularly important to us. Especially in the area of freedom, security and justice, we must always ensure that we find the balance between the security need of our citizens on the one hand and the need for the freedom of citizens on the other, the protection of fundamental rights. This is a very essential aspect, which we certainly keep in mind. It has been discussed several times in the context of the debate on the whole area of asylum policy, although this is not directly a judicial policy, but, as I believe, an important area that is very busy with us in Austria. Hiezu I would like to tell you that we have already agreed at the Tampere Council, which was practically the preliminary programme before the Hague programme, which I first implemented, that we want to have a common asylum policy in Europe. The first stage of this common asylum policy has already been implemented, namely the creation of minimum standards for the admission of asylum seekers, and the Dublin II Regulation, which lays down that the asylum procedure must be carried out in that State where the asylum seekers first entered European soil. There are also the conditions for asylum status and the like. This has already been implemented, we have already transposed the asylum and foreign law already mentioned here on several occasions into national law, and I believe that we have taken a right step with it. As a second stage, the new structures for the asylum authority, the action plan, the protection programme and regional resettlement are currently being negotiated, with a view to establishing regional protection centres with European Union funds in third countries, practically in the vicinity where there is a crisis. There are already discussions with various countries, including, of course, the Austrian Presidency, including, of course, the European Commission. I believe that it is the right way to provide on-the-spot assistance, including through the European Union's resources – and not only with financial resources, but also with the know-how of the European Union, how to make this humane Tragedy, which is certainly very often linked to the crisis spots and, above all, to refugees, how to cope with this problem. It is also planned to set up, for example, a European refugee fund, also with the European Union's resources, so that there is also a kind of Burden-sharing in terms of financial resources. It is also important to work on a list of safe third countries. This is currently one of those areas where the Minister of the Interior is very much negotiating. Another important area – also mentioned several times, especially as regards the Western Balkans – concerns visa policy. To this end, I should like to say that it is the policy of the European Union that, before granting visa facilitations to different countries, we have also concluded the readmission agreement with these States for illegal immigrants. Negotiations are under way with several countries. This is a very crucial point, because it is also necessary to ensure that these visa facilitations do not allow for facilitated illegal immigration. – As far as this area is concerned. An area particularly close to my heart is that of trafficking in human beings and towing. To say here that we would not have done anything at European level or in Austria, I must respond with all appreciation: That's measured. Really: That's fair! We have implemented the framework conditions here in Austria. We have intensified criminal law in the field of towing. We have made improvements in the field of victim protection. Of course, it is important to have the tow straps, and, as recently, there is always investigational success of the executive in the field of towing. What is particularly important to us, however, is the protection of victims, and this is a very important concern to me personally. We have concluded a contract with LEFÖ – this is an association in Austria, which, as you know, deals very intensively with victims of tow products – after which, in cooperation with this association, we pay the psychosocial and legal trial support for victims of tow products from the Ministry of Justice. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, in our new foreign law, we have also provided for a residence status for victims of trafficking in human beings for a limited period of time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also planned to cooperate very successfully with Bulgaria and Romania in order to tackle the problem with the children. There are gangs of pocket robbers coming from Bulgaria and Romania. Here there are intensive negotiations with the Bulgarian government and with the Romanian government. There is also a Human Trade Task Force in Austria. This is a problem that we are taking very seriously, a problem which we are looking at in the longer term, hopefully will also be addressed in the medium term, especially in the interests of the protection of the victims. I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3032	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3053	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Responsible Security policy means recognition of the European context and commitment to international cooperation. A strong engine in the European Union for cooperation is Austria, is the Austrian Federal Government and is our Federal Ministers for Justice and Internal Security. What's our goal? – Our goal must be to make Austria safer. We know exactly when Europe is safer, then security in our country is certainly increasing, and people are living in greater security. We stand on the European Union, and we support the Amsterdam Treaty, which has already been quoted several times today, which defines Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice. We support their objectives of ensuring safe borders with appropriate measures, solving asylum and migration problems together and protecting our people from crime as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the direction of opposition: There is a demand for commonness and not a frontal opposition, which always comes from your side. We face major challenges, especially in the field of security. Criminals are organizing across borders. They use all technical possibilities and they rely on state-of-the-art means of communication. In the area of justice and internal security, we have come to appreciate in good time that we need more effective action to combat international crime: cross-border cooperation between national police organisations and national law enforcement authorities, joint contracts, as we did yesterday in the Prüm Treaty, exchange of experience, networking of data material and faster international mutual support in the executive field and in the judicial field. The European Union has identified in the Hague programme the way for greater security in Europe that we must go together. Here are the instruments that we need to achieve greater security for our people. The Hague Programme has the priority of developing immigration and asylum policy. We need a common European regulation in these areas. We need to get people out of illegality. We have to remove barriers where barriers are needed. We need a European burden balance and we need prospects for those who are really looking for protection and help and need this help. And we also need a clear regulation for those who misuse the free movement of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a very brief look at Mr Jarolim's statement that we have experienced increasing crime in Austria. - No, that's not true! On the contrary: In the last two years, we have achieved God's thanks to the turnaround; crime is falling by more than 2%, and we have an increasing education rate. Mr Jarolim is living in the past! – We have also increased the number of staff by 100 in the UBAS. These are all great progress, but this should have been avoided by Mr Jarolim. I would like to come back to what Mr Jarolim said, and to ask for one thing: May we really be excused from a Kreisky’s and Vransky’s politics, as it happened in the past, because it is linked to debt policy and also to bank arguments, because Vrannitzky was also responsible for the Landesbank at that time! The SPÖ should be one of clearly see: You can leave your hands on the economy and banks!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3114	Next, Mr Puswald. 4 minutes speaking time; this is also the total time left for the Social Democratic Club. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3135	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister for Economic Affairs! – The Lord with his back to me was also warmly greeted! – Ladies and gentlemen in the house! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you mean the oillinger?]] It is actually embarrassing and terrifying if one finds that even EU issues are misused by the speakers of the government parties to change political coins, but one sees it, style cannot be bought. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That’s where a quote from today’s “Kronen Zeitung” fits very well. “Very carefully,” says the “Kronen Zeitung”, “the black-orange government should be in its choice of words when it comes to the crises of banks. And especially the ÖVP should not forget how it was done with almost banking by black institutions in the 1970s when they were discreetly helped out of the patch at that time.” There you see clearly the style that distinguishes you from a state-bearing social democratic policy. [[Lively cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I'm glad you can still laugh about it. Keep your humor, you will need it after the next elections! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But while Social Democratic Finance Ministers were discreetly rehabilitating their black bank claims at the time, you have to change political small money here. But that also seems to be necessary to distract from the real issue. The Minister of Finance, for example, complained about all this offshore centre in the "Mitagsjournal" yesterday, as he calls it, and said that international action must be taken against it. He literally said: It is, of course, difficult because this is not a question the BAWAG has made alone. . So I think the Minister of Finance will probably have meant your black banking sector as well. That is why I have sent a parliamentary question to the Minister for Finance today, but may you, Minister of Finance, ask Gastinger, by handing you a copy of the fact that you, too, accept the subject, because we want to be informed, and we have little confidence in the Minister of Finance. The Federal Minister may be able to proceed further here. That you are acting with your stylistic break and your very worrying way of thinking about which you are more than just thinking, but for which you should also be ashamed, distract from the true topics, says your own party friend from Finland, the conservative former Minister of Europe. In a recent broadcast, he said literally: "At mid-term, the Presidency of Austria is developing into a series of (...) Events then to a real, decision-making work phase.” [[Abg. Lens: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Amon: Who?]] He therefore feared and expressed concern that, in his view, the lack of zeal in Austria would lead many major questions of open concern to the responsibility of the Finnish Presidency at the beginning of July. [[Abg. Amon: Who? Who said that?]] – Mr Amon, your educational emergency on this point is unfortunate, but your Conservative minister and former Minister of Europe is called Vilén. Maybe you'll remember the name if you meet him again. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not true!]] – They distract from the issues, that is understandable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Fassleven, this is understandable, too, because your tank story, in which you have put billions of taxpayers in the sand, will still track you if you haven't been in this house for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would just like to say the following: We agree with you on many points; only we believe that it does not need mere lip recognition, but needs to go on, for example on the subject of asylum seekers/basic rights. You are perfectly right to raise the prosperity of these countries of potential asylum seekers – but you should also come at your own door, and unfortunately, the figures of your policies in recent years speak a sad language: Thus, economic growth fell from 2.7 percent in 1999 to 1.7 percent in 2005; the inflation rate increased from 0.5 percent in 1999 to 2.2%; the real wage increase fell from 1.3 percent to minus 0.1 percent, and employment growth from 1.1 percent to 0.4 percent, and employment growth increased from 1.3% to 1.4%. [[Abg. Elf wall: Wrong! You don't even know that!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3277	Mr deputies, you obviously heard the bell: Your speaking time has already been exceeded. Thank you. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Puswald.]] The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 6 minutes speaking time; this is the total rest period for your club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3310	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already deposited my fundamental positions on justice policy within the EU as part of my first speech. I would just like to focus more on various contributions to the debate. I am sorry that this debate has been used by opposition speakers such as Jarolim or Puswald to really make small political money here and to excavat and dispossess the mud cubes again. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: scandalous! That's great!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your accusation, Mr Puswald, that political change has been beaten by the government side, is based on a completely false observation of this situation! Mr Jarolim has said a sentence that has, as it were, slipped him out: There's enough we can be proud of! – Mr Jarolim, that is right! There are really a lot of things we can be proud of in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are only recently, as was stated in the “Kronen Zeitung” – it has just been quoted, you believe everything in the “Kronen Zeitung” – on the third place an international view arrived, what economic policy, what unemployment problems and so on. So, as I said, We can be very proud of what has been created in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – Many envy us about our situation in Austria. But now I would like to address a number of other points of debate. Mrs Stoisits said: Thousands of people coming from Africa drown because Europe refuses to help because Europe does not support it. Mrs Stoisits, I do not want to leave these massive accusations in space because Europe is providing massive support not only for Africa but also for the Middle East and everywhere in the world. Each country in Europe is providing additional development assistance. – Other pleas They are always responsible for self-responsibility, and suddenly Europe is responsible for everything and everyone. Europe is not responsible for the entire asylum problem around the world – you have to take note of that! In addition: In Africa – recently also in the newspaper – 500 000 people are waiting for them to enter the European Economic Area. Mrs Stoisits! Should Europe indicate that all these 500 000 Africans, as well as Asians, should come to Europe? So I just don't want to. We may need immigration in five or ten years, but we want to choose the people who come to us. We need people who fit into our economic structure and also our age structure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Asylum, ladies and gentlemen, can only be obtained by someone who has asylum grounds. And we demand that our laws be observed in Austria. Today, the Greens have again demasked themselves with their asylum policy, with these accusations on Europe. I hope that they will never come to the government so that they can't implement any of their policies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Wurm, if you think that my colleague, Fauland, would have demanded that the Convention on Human Rights or the Geneva Convention be repealed: No, we don't. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Oh yes!]] Mr Fauland has made a complaint The following: In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, the Convention on Human Rights is not in the constitutional rank, so Germany has a much greater margin in the laws of foreigners, in the asylum law than Austria. We want these international treaties to be adapted to the current situation. The Geneva Convention was concluded in 1955; there was no use of asylum at that time. People back then were really persecuted, while we know today very well that the asylum laws are being used to achieve immigration. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's not all that you say!]] Mrs Weinzinger, you say it is not necessary to tighten the asylum laws because the number of applications has already fallen. – Why did she go back? – Because we have created a new asylum law, that is why! They demand that we deal with the asylum seekers in a decent manner. Of course you have to deal with them decently. But we also demand measures against criminal asylum seekers. It must not be admitted that people come to Austria under the title of asylum seekers and place criminal acts here to the detriment of the Austrians. That is where we want to have appropriate measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Lunacek, you want to stamp me as a racist. I know that's what you're trying to do. But if you say "Shams belong to thought," then it's not racism! I really think you should be a little more careful about this term. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: scandalous!]] I demand that the laws be respected and respected. And I think that is the right to even demand the duty of every parliamentarian to comply with the laws. And I would just like to say to the Chinese woman you mentioned: It has entered illegally, has repeatedly stated false identities, has made itself a youth, has failed to observe a residence ban, and then it has filed an asylum application when it has nothing more to use. That is what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! - I'll be right there. – Europe – and therefore all of us – is facing huge tasks. And we must not expect the ideal image of Europe from today to tomorrow, but it will take some time, and we must now, after the years of enlargement, see that this Europe is consolidated.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3447	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[12:18:18]] 2. Point New impetus for employment and growth policies in the European Union and Austria
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3474	We are now moving to the second subject area. I give the floor to Mr Dr. One. According to § 74b para. 3 GOG must not exceed 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3498	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! First of all, allow me an analytical preliminary remark: Where are we in Europe today? We have had weak economic growth in Europe for years, at least far too little to finally reduce the number of unemployed. We have a little better data in Austria than at the European average, but they are not good enough either. Again, growth is not enough to reduce the number of unemployed, to finally give people jobs again. Another word about what the Federal Chancellor said yesterday: The only federal state in Austria where unemployment rates have fallen last year was Vienna – not the other federal states. So exactly the opposite of what the Federal Chancellor said yesterday! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the euro area countries, growth is expected to be almost 2% this year, for which the EU-25 is one out of 2.2 percent. And that is where the Federal Chancellor speaks of “enjoyable growth ”?- Oh, my God! His claims are obviously modest. We want more, and with an appropriate policy it is also possible to do more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Looking more closely, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that Europe's large export-oriented companies, including in Austria, deserve a lot better from year to year. A key reason for this is that in recent years workers have been able to receive only small or no real wage increases, because the high level of unemployment, of course, also exerts enormous pressure on wages. It is also apparent that most small and medium-sized enterprises suffer very weak growth under these conditions. They do not export mainly, they need demand on the domestic market or on the European internal market, and that is not the case at present. [[Abg. Ellwall: They are mostly suppliers!]] In addition, many of the European initiatives in recent years have also slowed economic growth on their own. The constant reforms in pension security, in health financing, in unemployment support, in labour market policy have led to a massive uncertainty of many people, and people who are concerned about the future are also putting the last giants they have on the high edge in order to be assured in the case of the case in the future. This too is missing for the development of the European economy. I think that's where we need to be directed. What, then, does Europe need to finally move forward so that it goes up and up and that it feels all people and not just a few big companies? First: We need growth, economic growth in Europe, economic growth in Austria. What is needed for that? – To this end, it is necessary to make investments in infrastructure to improve the quality of the site. It is not enough if the Federal Government refers to the fact that more money is spent in the transport resort now than before. The main investors in Austria have traditionally always been the municipalities, and they have been “turned off the gas”, as they say so beautifully, they currently have little air to invest. We feel this on the domestic market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We urgently need investment in education and in the compatibility of work and family. Federal Minister Bartenstein has now also discovered that it would have been good if one had invested in childcare facilities, in all day care facilities, and has mentioned the example of Vienna itself. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Vienna with the highest unemployment in Austria!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this needs to be done so that women have a fair chance to participate in the professional life, and we have been in favour of it for years now! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Only this federal government does nothing in this direction. [[Abg. Felzmann: If the men would contribute a little more, it would also be...!]] We also need massive investment in education, in education. It is known how badly we cut off at PISA, and here too we need models all day long. But these are only moving very slowly. We need investment in research. There are some things that have happened, that is to say, but we also have to say clearly: Even if the increases in expenditure on research actually take place, research expenditure alone does not produce an economic situation! They are an absolute prerequisite for Austria to be able to keep up with international competition in the future – not a question – but to create work is not enough investment in research. That too should be said clearly. In order to strengthen the effectiveness of these measures, which we are calling for, which we have proposed and for which we can also draw up and present a programme, this programme should provide for gradual increases in investment through several consecutive years. This is how consumer confidence can be achieved, and this would help us economically – not only the consumers themselves who feel that it is going up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Restore the trust of BAWAG customers!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I propose here even seems to be the Federal Government, even the Federal Chancellor in part! How else would it be clear that, for example, in the decision of the European Council, which aims to ensure that all EU Member States undertake to increase their research expenditure annually, with the aim of having 3 percent research rate in Europe in 2010, the Federal Chancellor considers this to be the right way? The question is: Why only in research? – You can do that elsewhere, and it would have real economic effects. I think that there is the constant claim of the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, of other government representatives, who always say that the state cannot create jobs, only companies can do so. I've had the opportunity to go in a short time yesterday. What it's all about is not that the state can't, but that this government doesn't want the state to be able to, otherwise he could. People also know this, as we know from surveys. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What it is all about is that the state is doing the things that only the state can do, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – You can hold back, you may still have speaking time. What's that? – It is to create more child care facilities all day long, as is already the case in Vienna. [[Abg. Ellmauer:... Vienna has the highest unemployment! Double as high as in Upper Austria!]] Who's to do that? Is that what companies are supposed to do? – Then give us examples of how the company should do! – This is necessarily the state, and it would be right to do something there, not only because we find it, but also because the European Commission has criticized the federal government’s reform plans on this point, and rightly because the Federal Government has so far been guilty of everything here. [[Abg. Grossruck: Don't drive companies that bring taxes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need more forms of schooling all day long, because this is also necessary to ensure that children have a chance to complete class and leisure courses in a mixed form, and because it is also a matter of giving parents the opportunity to be working all day and to achieve an income from which one can live. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need – I mentioned this earlier – more investment in infrastructure, and in particular we need more room for communities to invest in infrastructure. The municipalities have been pushed and can hardly invest anymore. It is important to put accents there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also need more support for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example through investment benefits. The point is: The investment benefits have abolished this government! And so well it is that decisions have been taken at European level to support the greening of businesses – that is wonderful! – I must say that there are 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. What happens in their favor if I may ask? They need economic growth, ladies and gentlemen. They can't hire these 10 million additional employees if they don't do business anymore, because only that is the basis for them being able to hire people. I think they also need better support – to mention a last example –... – Mr. Scheuch, you may speak later, be quiet for a while! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Felzmann and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also need better support if they are looking for employees to find the right ones. Ladies and gentlemen! In a period in which we have 380 000 jobseekers in Austria, it is infinitely difficult for a small company to find out, among the 100, 150 applications, the 2,3 candidates that are eligible. Vienna has created a model here, the so-called "personnel finder" who is pre-screening, where one helps the firms to find the right workers they can need. [[Deputies Ellmauer and Amon:... the highest unemployment rate...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Why is this not implemented at federal level? [[Call at ÖVP: Because there is the highest unemployment rate in Vienna!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] So it's relatively clear: We need a change both at European level and at Austrian level of political conditions, which finally creates the upswing that people need to have to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3748	Mr Bartenstein spoke on the presentation of an introductory opinion. Your speaking time, Mr Federal Minister, should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3770	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dr. One of the two employers' presidents of Europe – he is the employer's president of public enterprises – at the beginning of this Europe debate, has devoted relatively little time to the issues of Europe and has shown a relatively large amount of public faith. I did not know today that someone else is still standing in Austria and says that the state is supposed to and can create jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! The State should set the framework for this – but jobs create businesses, employers together with employees! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Who deletes the teachers' posts? The companies?]] I agree with you in your analysis: Europe has a weak growth, it goes upward. Even in Austria, growth was not quite as expected and hoped for, but, at the heart of it, a good 2% growth in 2004, 2005, in 2006 probably around 2.5 percent growth, which is something you can work with. In the end, this also leads to tension on the labour market. And that's where the Federal Chancellor is right: The only state in Austria where unemployment has increased permanently by the end of February – I hope that it will continue in the next few weeks and months – is Vienna. [[Abg. Ellwall: 2 700 more unemployed!]] The increase in unemployment in the annual period in Vienna at the end of February has been more than the total increase in Austria – I give it to you in writing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: Vienna must have 200 000 Lower Austrian...! 200,000 commuters a day!]] What I'm saying is right, and I'm right about what I say. [[Abg. But since when is that true, Minister, what you are saying?]] Your friends have obviously kept this different in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But 18.5 million unemployed people in Europe are too much – trend is already falling, but not yet to the extent that we would hope for it; I assume that at the end of this year, under 18 million. That is why it is particularly important that the Federal Chancellor, together with his team, of course, the Foreign Minister – in my view not necessarily to expect and hope – has committed Europe's Heads of State and Government at the summit to making a commitment to create 2 million jobs a year through an economy in Europe that can do so. Only a few have expected it to succeed. One of the main results of the Spring Summit is the message to European citizens, to European workers: In the next few years, 2 million jobs are created per year. 1 percent increase in employment, which is possible. Today, Europe has 200 million jobs. – Thank you, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, you have done great things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Hot air!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Who's gonna make it now?]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Austria is located here in the upper field of Europe. We have had about 1.3% increase in employment last year, more than 40 000 new jobs. [[Call the SPÖ:Part-Time! Part-time!]] That is, 1 percent per year, 2 million jobs per year, which is possible and must be possible. Austria is progressing with a good example. [[Abg. Riepl: Why do we have so many unemployed people?]] It is equally important, ladies and gentlemen, that we also send a signal to young people at this summit, saying that what is natural in Austria, namely that school leavers receive a apprenticeship or at least a comparable training place, should also be implemented in Europe – now within six months, and from 2010 onwards, within four months. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: This is not a matter of course!]] In Austria this is possible in the short term. Here too, Austria is a model for others in the European Union! Mr. Dr. Een, you mentioned the middle class. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... do not have compulsory schooling!]] – Right, this is the backbone of the economy! I am glad that the formerly very large-scale social democracy has suddenly discovered the middle class. Wonderful! The middle class is the backbone of the economy in Austria and Europe, the backbone is ultimately also the innovation, the jobs of the future. And it was important that we have achieved at European level that companies can be set up within a week in the future. – In Austria this is the case plus/minus. It is important that medium-sized companies and entrepreneurs, if they want to start business, find the one-stop shop principle. And it is important that German Chancellor Schüssel has achieved that the Commission has at least doubled the so-called de minimis limit, i.e. from when support for medium-sized enterprises is subject to notification. Another great success of our presidency at this spring summit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Self-consecration...!]] On another point, I am quite sure of your opinion from the principle that research and development are the top priority here to achieve the 3-percent objective. But also say that it was Austria's Presidency, which for the first time brought Europe's Member States to commit themselves to national goals, after many in vain attempts from other presidencies. Now there's no longer just inside. 3 per cent European Union per 2010, but it stands inside: Finland and Sweden 4 percent, Austria 3 percent, Italy 2.5 percent. – We have achieved all of this, and this is now simply more concrete, which is what the increase in funding for research and development is about to happen – one of the most important prerequisites for creating competition and economic strength and, ultimately, jobs in Europe. In the first three months of our presidency, however, we have not only succeeded in talking about the European Union and its policies, but we have also managed to discuss the questions a little more: What about our Europe? How do we want to live? How does our European model of life look like? How do we want to strengthen the common interest of going to a social Europe? – Important issue in Villach at the Informal Employment Council, when I, President Verzellnich and Mrs Haubner, could still shake hands on the Draubrücke in our joint work for this common goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For a social Europe!, but one must also say how we are going in this direction. And there has been a proposal from Austria, a political strategy in Brussels so far, great success and great response, that is to say, the concept of flexicurity – not only to formulate a goal, but also to say how I get there. We need more flexible labour markets, but we want to achieve this by offering workers more social security, not always disqualifying social security as an obstacle to competition, but saying in Europe and in Austria: Social security, made right, is precisely the prerequisite for our workers, our businesses, our Europe to remain competitive and become even more competitive! – A concept that comes from Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and is gladly heard in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Multiple times together with employers' president A debate is under way at European level, and it is a good thing to have an important growth requirement for Europe: the creation of a common internal market for services. 600,000 jobs in addition, economic researchers say. Let's see how this comes, but we know that the implementation of this single market in services is the top priority. It is also a very common success, with the involvement of the European social partners – and no one, Mr Dr. Einm, you know, like Chancellor Schüssel under Austria's presidency, has so far included the social partners in the European decision-making process – since it is a great success that not only a large part of the social partnership – by the way also of the European Trade Union Confederation, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation! – but also the Social Democracy in Europe and also the Christian Democracy in Europe are behind a great compromise in the European Parliament on the Services Directive, where a two-thirds majority have achieved this, and the Commission has now clearly expressed its support, and we have the opportunity to complete this very, very important European project, carried by two-thirds of MEPs, carried by the Social Democracy and the Christian Democrats in Europe, under the Austrian Presidency. A very important project! I hope that Austria's social democrats and Austrian trade union representatives will ultimately share with us what Europe's social democrats and European trade union representatives welcome, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me conclude with a chapter that, of course, also stands for growth and employment – especially if you do not have it, it is very bad for growth and employment – namely energy. Energy is being brought to our attention as a top priority topic. [[Abg. Oil: Atomic energy!]] Mr Oellinger, listen to me for a moment. Maybe we're not that far apart. It's parliamentarism. I also listen to you, even if it may be difficult for me. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, climate protection, on the other hand, oil price increases and other energy price increases, and on the third – particularly striking for Austria – the turn-on gas tap on the 1st. ==References== We have been faced with the importance of this issue by those in it. On the basis of a Green Paper from the European Commission on the summit and now on the common position of the Heads of State or Government, it has succeeded in bringing together some of the things that go towards a more "common", a more coherent European energy policy, and that is absolutely welcome! It is also absolutely welcome that, of course, the choice of energy mix will continue to be left to each Member State in the future. So anyone who wants to work with hydropower, like Austria, who wants to rely on renewable energy sources, will be able to do so. What others do, they will decide for themselves in the course of subsidiarity. There is no one in Austria to interpret what is not in these European decisions. [[Abg. Marizzi: When was the last hydropower plant built?]] We are very careful to ensure that we are self-determined in energy policy and remain, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: When was the last hydropower plant built in Austria?]] German chancellor Schüssel, contrary to many expectations under our current presidency, was able to assert that Europe is stepping up a path that we are already taking in Austria, namely energy saving and energy efficiency. 20 percent increase in energy efficiency within the next 15 years is a really great success. The most ecological, cheap kilowatt hour is the one that is not even consumed. This is all the best of what is available, and in the end there is also a lot of research, development and technology needed. In this respect, we are not only an average in Austria, but also one of the pioneers in Europe and can thus develop start-ups and create jobs indirectly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Another important goal of the Europeans' commitment, which no one would have believed before the summit 24 hours before, has been successful. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has managed that by 2015 15 percent of total energy will come from renewable energy sources. Even today, Austria is already much better off, because we are 25 percent, including our hydropower, but Europe is still far behind it. 15 percent of energy consumption is to come from renewable energy sources. This is the basis for domestic value creation, which is the basis for an endogenous energy policy, and this is ultimately the basis for a reduced dependence on fossil raw materials such as gas and oil from other, usually politically unstable regions. Thus, these first three months of the Austrian Presidency have brought more to our policy on growth and employment in Europe and in Austria than we could expect and hope for in terms of energy policy and medium-sized policies. I'm very proud of Federal Chancellor Schüssel and our team. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4036	The next item is the report by Mr Katzian. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4057	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been following the debates yesterday and also this morning in the House with great interest. What surprised me a little is the concern that some Members have expressed, in particular, by the government parties, about the future of the trade union movement. [[Abg. Grill: You have to!]] I would like to say a few things about this. First: The new Director-General of BAWAG Ewald Nowotny, the team at BAWAG and the colleagues who work there with full commitment to their customers enjoy my full confidence, and I am convinced that they will bring the bank back in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, The ÖGB is currently working on a corporate governance catalogue. We also want to show how we deal with our property in the future. I think that's a step in the right direction. By the way, I invite all those who do not have such a thing, if we have done so, to follow this example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, The trade union movement in Austria was, and will remain, the reliable partner of the employees in Austria, and no one needs to worry about the fightability of this trade union movement, our movement, here in this House. That's what I wanted to tell you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For people in Europe, for workers in Austria, another topic is the focus, ladies and gentlemen, and this issue is work, not work in the form of jobs, but work from which one can live. There are almost 400,000 unemployed people in Austria and 32 million jobseekers in Europe – and Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi said that the summit has been as quiet as never before. He even used the word “consistency. ” I wonder, In view of this mass unemployment, how could there be agreement on the summit in view of these framework conditions? – Apart from hot language bubbles and promises for the future, in reality, no steps have been taken that actually create work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of young people here in the House, and we also need to discuss what the situation of young people in Europe looks like and what the opportunity of young people to get jobs from which one can live, from which one can build a future. If new jobs are created mainly in the area of precarious service conditions – these are the most diverse forms of part-time work, so-called new jobs, to minor employment conditions – then, believe me, ticks a time bomb in Europe. You can also read this in today’s “press ” in which this is clearly shown. If no credible signals are sent to young people in Europe, if it is not enough for young people to see, understand and understand that steps are being taken that will also give them jobs for the future, then we have to fight with a tickling time bomb. And finally, it will be so far that situations, as we are currently experiencing in France, will also take place in other European countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] 2 million jobs were formulated as one of the objectives of the employment summit. I have already mentioned and would like to underline, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not about statistical sizes, not about the other representation of some statistics, but about the creation of jobs, of which those who are now looking for jobs can actually live, which give them a future. The young people who enter the profession who need jobs should also have jobs that ultimately lead to their being able to build their lives and shape their future accordingly. And in order to achieve all this, a European investment offensive – a demand that the European trade unions have put on the table for many years – needs to be launched with the focus on research, education, development and trans-European networks. For the financing of such European investment plans, there are proposals on the table. The Federal Chancellor has also stated quite specifically that he can imagine implementing a Tobin tax to finance the corresponding programmes for growth and employment in Europe. We have heard the announcement, but what I miss is the concrete steps and initiatives to achieve it. I hope that today's debate can contribute to the fact that a corresponding step is taken by the Austrian Parliament, too, in order to continue on this issue in a sustainable way and actually implement the Tobin tax. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4125	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4146	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: He has the same tie as Minister Bartenstein!]] So many times close to SPÖ and trade union – we have just heard from Mr Katzian. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Unlike you, I don't need a whisperer. [[Abg. That's what the glass house says!]] I just wanted to get in there. It was his virgin speech, and in terms of content I think it is right that this is the central point. There are many young people here. There is a large conference on this subject in Austria, and today’s topic on page 5 in the “Press” is “Youth Is Europe’s Social Time Bomb”. 62 percent of Austrian young people expect their work to be worse in ten years than their parents. I therefore believe that it is quite right that the EU should be active in this area and that youth in the field of labour market policy among the priority target groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I also find the objective that at the age of 22, at least 85 percent of all young people should have at least secondary education and that every unemployed school leaver should find employment within six months by 2007. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to see what we are doing in Austria: The Economic and Social Committee, together with the AMS, has set itself the goal of finding employment for all the long-term unemployed young people, i.e. those who are unemployed for more than six months, and we are on the road very well. We have already found more than 1 000 companies to take up young people. We work with a coaching model and are confident that we can accommodate everyone who wants to. That means we're not just talking, but we're also putting action. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who is “we ”?]] I also think it is right that the objectives of the elderly are precisely the same. For example, when it comes to the employment of older workers, there is also a need for appropriate training. There too, if young people are not demographically strong, we will have appropriate needs. This too is a real goal. I also think it is important that the Services Directive has finally taken up the drive to implement it. I expect employment effects and I do not see the risk of wage dumping, because this has now been sufficiently prevented with appropriate restrictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I would now like to address what Mr One said in connection with the Lisbon strategy. Mr. One, yesterday you meant in the current hour that this was not at all an ambitious claim if you wanted to create 2 million employees in 2006 with an increase of 2.2 per cent, which is an automatic one. I think you have overlooked the fact that in 2004, we had a 2.4 percent growth and a total employment impact of 1 million. Therefore, nothing is automatic, nothing is simple, but it is a very ambitious effort that is being made this year to actually reach 2 million employees. I am also surprised, Mr One – perhaps you will listen to me briefly – if you mention in this context that the municipalities now have fewer resources available in the infrastructure sector. [[Abg. Eder: Yes!]] Would you have said that, at the last financial compensation, you actually tried to give the small communities more money. But who has prevented the graduated population key from getting away? . It was the great community, Vienna all ahead, it was. [[Abg. Marizzi: No, no, no!]] It is not very credible to prevent this on the one hand and to complain on the other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Further: I am really surprised and can hardly believe that you are now constantly talking about the 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises that you represent and which have to fight with obstacles. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] That's all right. Mr President, I think you have recognized that you have lost your credibility in the field of workers, so you are not talking about it anymore. Your speakers are no longer talking about employee policy, but believe me, in the field of SMEs you have no competence at all, there we have it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Jobs do not arise without appropriate framework conditions, without the entrepreneurial potential being properly revived. That is why I think it is right that we have the ambition to allow business start-ups throughout Europe within a week. We looked at the average time in Austria. In the case of free trade it is 15 minutes. This means that we have more than achieved there for a week. Further registrations are made in the company book within one and a half weeks. Only in the case of plant permits, one needs partly more than three months. That means there's a lot to do, too. As for the loans, large loans are handled within a weekend, but we also need to look at the small loans, so that they can be handled as quickly as possible. Therefore, the entrepreneurial potential will be raised to the extent that we need. I also hear we double the de minimis rule. This is very important for businesses because they do not fall within the scope of State aid law. But the question is: Do we now increase the existing legal framework from € 100 000 to € 200 000 or do we take up the Commission's proposal, increasing from € 150 000 to € 300 000? That's a serious difference. But overall, I think, we're on the right track. This is confirmed by a study by Roland Berger, a consultant who thinks that small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk of more insolvency, and the capitalization is bad, so we should do something in the area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Mr Puswald, calm down! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The insolvencys are as high as ever before and continue to rise!]] Insolvency is so high, but not because of the indebtedness of small and medium-sized enterprises, but because large businesses and various banks are making problems, and of course you need to improve equity capital. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: We have now finally found a lobby in the area of enterprise policy, especially in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's quite clear: I need someone who speaks for a group of companies, who then creates a corresponding image there, which creates the appropriate framework conditions and then creates the appropriate competence. You never did that before. There has now been a change in European policy, and I believe that the right measures are being taken at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4324	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Ladies and gentlemen, after 4 minutes I shall finish and you will be able to continue your speech after the part-session. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4345	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! The second EU issue today concerns jobs and the economic location – an issue that, I believe, is all busy; the statements here have shown this. I believe that all political groups are of the opinion that every unemployed person/any unemployed person is one or more too many; there is no need to discuss this at all. And every job we can create is a good job. But interesting was the virgin speech of fellow Katzian. We didn't call so much in between – young man's speech – because it doesn't belong. [[Ruf:Jungmannrede]] But I think it must not be forgotten that in Austria we have excellent figures: We have the highest employment rate we ever had, in Austria we have the highest employment rate we ever had! [[Abg. Riepl: We've never had so many boys without work!]] You can't and won't talk sickly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] – We have never had anything to come to – thank you for the keyword! – but to dramatize there would be the wrong access. You should be here... [[Abg. Riepl: You failed!]] We didn't fail! Do you know who failed? – The SPÖ has failed, the ÖGB has failed. That's really unique! They have lost any competence. If you are discussing unemployment and social hardship, the chickens are laughing in the stable. That's incredible! You have lowered € 1 billion in the sand of the Caribbean. You have destroyed billions of € with your preparatory organization, the ÖGB. Mr Katzian was here at the speaker's desk. It is incomprehensible to talk about the unemployed. That's a scandal! [[Abg. Gaál: The highest unemployment in the Second Republic!]] Mr Gaál, do you know how many jobs could have been created with this billion? Our Blum model – the Federal Minister will improve me if it is not true – costs about €10,000 per apprentice. This means that with 1 billion euros you could have created the 100 000 apprenticeships in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] 100 000 young people – and there are young people here at the top of the gallery – 100 000 young people who are legitimately concerned about their future have a job. But you have preferred that Mr. Elsner build a penthouse, that Mr. Flöttl resides in the Caribbean on Cayman Islands and assumes the ÖGB and BAWAG scandals that have never been there. [[Abg. Dobnigg:... Eurofighter, then you would have 200 000 jobs!]] – Whoever screams is not right, you have to take back unfortunately! Second story: If one had put these € 1 billion – the excitement shows the guilt – into research and development, ladies and gentlemen, then it would have created 50,000 direct jobs. 1 billion € investment in research and development – and there could have created 50,000 jobs. If it is calculated together – I come to the end of my first part of the speech – then it is said that you have destroyed 100,000 apprenticeships and 50,000 jobs. “Consum”, Bank Burgenland and so on, let us greet you! Your competence is zero!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4462	The speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch is interrupted – and the meeting is also interrupted for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4491	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, who will continue his interrupted speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make four minutes for you to arrive at the 8 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4515	I won't need that much time. I don't start from the beginning, just don't worry. Madam President. Federal Minister! After lunch break, of course, it is a little difficult to get into the discussion as you have left it. It also shows the unfortunately not very full rows, that some are still at lunch break. [[Abg. Steibl: But only at the SPÖ!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't always be so excited on the sides of the SPÖ! I didn't say to you, but I've generally meant that the rows are empty. The criticism was not explicitly related to the red half of the empire. [[Abg. Scheibner: Although it is entitled!]] Not always when the Uwe Scheuch goes to the speaker's desk, it's up to you. There seems to be a fundamental fear among you. Before the interruption, we talked about these knittings ÖGB – BAWAG and about the scandals that have expired there. I think it is important to repeat once again that, of course, this money would have been able to put in place a lot of work-place-effective measures. It would have been very possible to use this money effectively, and especially the ÖGB as the preparatory organisation, the professional representation of the small workers, the working people, could probably have been able to assume his responsibility differently here. However, we have managed very well to create a few jobs. I am thinking about the work of former Director-General Elsner. He got a job, he did it. After he was so to speak, when he was praised at the BAWAG for his good work, after he received a job of 50 million schilling, he obviously needed a new job, and this job was found. And I think it doesn't matter where you're politically at home: If you are looking for a new job for this “deserved” master and find him at the lotteries, with an annual amount of € 320 000 – that’s 5 million schilling yeargage! – shows that the SPÖ can also create jobs and that the ÖGB is very well able to create jobs for employees. Mr. Elsner was at least one who did it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But of course I would also like to address a few more approaches to solving the problem of employment. If you look at the unemployment figures in detail, you can see that there are a lot of... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you have anything to do with it...?]] I come to the question, Mr Gusenbauer; Unfortunately, you will have to endure this in the next few weeks and months! Mr Katzian stood out and talked about the BAWAG's reconstruction concept. – I do not know what this has to do with European growth policy. But this is a subject that moves people. About 20 percent of the unemployed are foreigners. In other words, we have a very high proportion of foreign unemployed people, and we must consider very well how we can create a new system here in order not to get more and more foreigners in the country who had a job, then become unemployed and thus impose additional burdens on the unemployment market. I think it's time to think about the system a little bit. One should discuss the quotas, consider whether it is reasonable to have quota-free and quota-separated immigration. In 2004, we had 5 000 quota entitlements in Austria, but 58 900 were not subject to quotas. These knittings belong to unflooded. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is family union!]] You should make sure that the draw is somehow different. You might also need to trust to think of new models. We from our group support the introduction of the Green Card. We want to create new models here, think of a Canadian model, such as the Green Card combined with a point system where people are specifically allowed to work in the country that is also needed. This means that training, language skills, professional experience, existing jobs play a role in this work immigration. And when you hear the criticism from the red rows, In England, such a new law was passed yesterday. It is thought that a point system should be introduced, that the introduction of less qualified jobs should be restricted and that it should go in the direction of higher qualified and also needed key workers. In conclusion: Of course, you will also have to think about taking a close look at the AMS – I have said this very often at this point. Is there any potential for savings? Is there any money that might otherwise be better used? It will not be possible to explain to people outside on the street or on the top of the ranks why they offer dance classes and cooking classes in the AMS to bring the unemployed to training. There is a need to put in place concrete measures to bring people out of unemployment to work and thus to further expand the top ranking, which Austria has on the European average, and to bring Austria to the top of Europe. This is the ambitious goal of this Federal Government – and we will continue to work on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4607	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes; that's the overall speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4628	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheuch! I think it's actually displaced that you've been talking about BAWAG for almost 10 minutes now. I am not against talking about the BAWAG, but everything at its time. Now we should actually talk about European employment strategies, but you have nothing to offer, and that is why you are fleeing the topic of BAWAG. [[In the case of greens, as well as in the case of the SPÖs.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You had to respond to the SPÖ, to the statements of Katzian! – And that was the only highlight of your speech now!]] [[Abg. Schöls: And he has put it wrong too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Schüssel said yesterday a sentence that I like to repeat because I want to underline him: We should open up to young people all the opportunities in this world! - A beautiful sentence! And I wonder, of course: What does the Federal Government do, what do the government parties do, what does Europe do to actually open up to young people all the opportunities of this world? I also ask that, ladies and gentlemen, because this sentence by Chancellor Schüssel obviously does not apply to all young people. I am thinking, for example, of young people in the enlargement countries, who are obviously excluded from these opportunities. Austria still wants to close its borders on the labour market. These people are allowed to come in, but not as normal, self-employed, equal citizens who are looking for a job or a job, but only as hospitals, as cross-borders, as seasonals, as interns, in other words under worse or more specific conditions. You know that, Minister Bartenstein! That is why we are clearly saying: The same right must apply to all! And we only have a chance to deal with the difficulties in the Austrian labour market, even though the people of the enlargement countries can only be employed here on the same and not at worse conditions and can, like our Austrian, domestic, young citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be the right answer, ladies and gentlemen, and we therefore also propose a resolution on the abolition of transitional periods on the labour market and a accompanying package of measures. I also say something about the accompanying package of measures, but I also need a sentence in response to Mr Bartenstein. You, Mr Federal Minister, have started a debate – I think this is exciting; however, it will not be possible to deal with it here in this short period of time – by replicating the statements made by the honourable Member One who has said that the State also has a certain obligation in relation to jobs. And you answered: No, the state does not, but the economy – but the economy! – Mr Federal Minister, you may like to replicate, but I can only very difficult to get the dialogue over the shoulder now! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, I didn't say that!]] In this context, I would like to quote another sentence, namely that of the German entrepreneur Götz Werner, head of the DM Group, who said he could no longer hear that the companies are responsible for creating jobs. The companies are responsible for making profits, he has said – you can also read it – but not for creating jobs. And I have to say, Unfortunately, Götz Werner is not so wrong. If I look more closely at the development, also the profit development of large Austrian companies in recent years, I have to say: They make record profits. They hardly pay more taxes – there are the relevant statistics as regards the profits taxes of these companies – and hardly create more jobs, at least not in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And what would your counterproposal be?]] That means: The framework conditions, which you, Mr Federal Minister, call for to relieve these companies that make record profits, of their responsibility to create jobs as well. And we should take a closer look at this, ladies and gentlemen. It cannot be that way, and in the future it will continue to be so that big companies will gain huge profits, but these large companies, as far as their tax obligations are concerned, no longer see any responsibility at all, because they are also relieved by the legislator in this respect. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No!]] - Don't say no! I can show you the statements on corporate taxes that exactly these large, partly Austrian companies no longer pay. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Make a counter proposal on how to do this without the companies moving abroad!]] The point is: How can we make it possible, not only at Austrian level, but also at European level, to restore a responsibility which includes companies, but, of course, everyone else? And since, ladies and gentlemen, I did not get any impetus from this Council summit in March and I did not realize at all that anyone was actually thinking about these issues that are crucial to Europe. Well, we now have a ‘Lisbon strategy’, but I have noticed, for example, that the goal of the old Lisbon strategy to promote social cohesion in Europe has been largely shredded out from the ‘Lisbon strategy’. You will no longer find it in the documents, Mr President Khol. If you work through them, you will find that there is nothing inside, which could actually promote social cohesion. I would just like to say one thing to you, because this is also an element of our request: If we do not go about providing first jobs for people who work and want to work, especially for younger people – I say something more concrete – but above all for those who actually work, to secure sufficient income from which they can live, if that is not guaranteed, if Europe does not make it, especially for young people, then Europe has lost its future. And I don't want that! I want young people to have a chance in this Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Rada.]] No matter if they are Austrian, Hungarian, Romanian or French young people: Everyone should have this chance! And everyone should have a certain degree of social security. But young people don't have that right now. That's a huge problem. If you compare our situation with that in France – one of the previous speakers has already mentioned this –: There young people have much greater problems to find a job, and so go on the road. When it comes to the French Government – that is the French Government’s proposal – they are not to be given the same rights as all other people in the employment contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Felzmann.]] At the same time, however, the government expects every European government from these young people – don't get so upset, listen! – at the same time, the government is expecting policies from these young people to bring young people back to the world. [[New call for tender Felzmann]] These young people today have no guarantees, ladies and gentlemen! We must try to give you this security so that they can cope with their lives in some way. [[New calls from the Abg. Felzmann.]] If there is a lack of work, if there is no income, if there is no appropriate perspective, then these young people do not have the security they need to organize their lives. [[Congratulations with the Greens and Deputies Dr. Rada and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Austria, too, did well to improve something. If youth unemployment has doubled in recent years – and that is the case – then this is an extremely bad signal that we give to young people and young people here in our country, and then the Federal Government must also increase its efforts. If young people are unable to obtain sufficient income from a job – and there are enough examples – then all efforts must be made to ensure that employment can actually achieve sufficient income. If young people with completed training – and this is reality in Austria – have to fly around for two, three, four, five years without a safe job – “Generation internship”: this also applies to Austria – then we have missed great opportunities for young people. And at least part of the responsibility you bear, but you act as if you were not responsible at all. That is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and also the responsibility of the Federal Minister and the Federal Government. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm sure we can't just finish the young people and say: We are not responsible for this; the economy will somehow judge you! That's too little, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4793	Mr Oellinger has just tabled a motion for a resolution which he has outlined in the key points. This application is sufficiently supported. On the basis of its scope, I leave this application in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to distribute joint ventures; he is also involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4897	The next item is Mrs Bures. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4919	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am glad that we have found a debate on the subject again, because I think that 20 million unemployed people in Europe are all reason enough to deal responsibly with this issue and focus on this issue. This is also because we in Austria – as you know – have the highest unemployment since the Second Republic existed. [[Abg. Scheibner: We do not let you dictate what we are talking about and what we are not talking about!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should start from the facts, and the facts are unfortunately that, as far as Austrian growth and employment policy is concerned, Austria is now at the end of the European Union in many key facts. For example, when it comes to public investment, all 24 EU Member States invest more than this Austrian Federal Government does. Federal Minister Bartenstein boasts employment growth, which is due exclusively to part-time work, and he does not say that even in employment growth Austria is at the end of the European Union. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Friend: Where did you get this?]] Since we heard today how much money you could have created like many jobs, I think: Why didn't you do anything? Why has unemployment been rising in Austria for six years? [[Abg. Grill: 200 000 more jobs!]] Why didn't you invest in employment? You have put billions in the sand by buying unnecessary interception hunters and making tax gifts to large corporations. [[Many calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor are realities to be laughed away! I'm telling you what the realities look like: For years we have only heard empty announcements! I'll tell you: In all the conversations I have with people, it becomes clear that they are tired: You are satisfied to hear from you that there is an employment guarantee. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The red felt is full of people!]] There are 70,000 young people – Mrs Fekter, you should be excited about this – who do not have a job in Austria, which is 10.5% of the young people who do not have a job. [[Abg. Schöls: How does it look in Germany after the red-green government?]] Hundreds of times we could fill this house – unfortunately – with unemployed young people. And the Federal Minister and the Federal Chancellor always say: Every youth gets a training place. – They are unemployed because of your bad and wrong economic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has the Presidency, and therefore we are also dealing with this issue. I think that the question is already legitimate, which many people in Europe are likely to ask themselves. Many people wonder how more jobs can actually be created in Europe if a German Chancellor is now responsible for it, who has ensured over the past six years that Austria has unfortunately left a successful path of full employment and that we have mass unemployment in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: nationalised, “consumer”, BAWAG – that’s how the SPÖ’s “economic competence” looks!]] He has driven unemployment to the highest level through his policy in Austria, and therefore he will unfortunately not be able to solve the problem in Europe, although it could be solved. I'm telling you, too. Many young people – there is the youth study, it has already been pointed out here – of course millions of young people in Europe are rightly asking the question: How is Wolfgang Schüssel supposed to fulfill the job promise? A Wolfgang Schüssel, under whose government youth unemployment – 70 000 – has doubled in the last six years. Double so many young people are unemployed! They took over government responsibility at a time when there was the lowest youth unemployment in Austria throughout Europe. Today unemployment is falling in 17 EU Member States, and in Austria it is rising. You are responsible for this increase in unemployment, and you are responsible for the fact that thousands of young people also say in the youth study that they have fears of the future and are desperating on this government policy. I tell these young people not to despair because it would not be necessary. We're a rich country. We could not use the money for tax gifts for large companies, but for youth employment measures. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the Caribbean!]] We could not put the money out of the window to finance interception hunters, but we could strengthen the purchasing power through tax relief. It would be possible, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But we can be confident: After the next elections, I can promise that there will again be a responsible policy, there will be social cohesion and the fight against unemployment will be the top priority. There is hope after the next election if you no longer bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5084	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5107	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just so that everyone knows: This was the leader of the SPÖ – so that it doesn’t go down – who here assumed “social responsibility”! – I think it would be good, ladies and gentlemen, for the Social Democrats themselves to take their noses. When the former Federal Managing Director of SPÖ, Mrs. Magistra Kuntzl, was expelled from her company SPÖ, you were not willing to pay her the claims for settlement and holiday money. [[Call the ÖVP:Oho!]] It had to try the Austrian Trade Union Confederation to assert its claims. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] That's in the "NEWS", ladies and gentlemen! This is social injustice! You have nothing to say to us from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is just too courageous – I would like to say almost mildly – that you choose the topic of growth and employment for Austria and Europe. I am actually grateful for this because, as a party responsible for government, as a People's Party, we certainly have one of our core competences here. If you look at economic growth in Austria in recent years, it has always been clearly above the European average. Mr. Federal Minister, this is your success, the success of the Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Every year, growth was markedly above that of the Federal Republic of Germany, which was led by a social democratic government. This too, I believe, is proof that social-democratic concepts cannot be used to make economic policies. Germany is breathing, since Angela Merkel and the Christian Democrats have been leading the government there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have record employment in Austria, even if you do not like to hear that. Never since 1945 have so many people in Austria had a job. At the same time, we have relatively high unemployment. And I am glad that the Federal Government has taken over €285 million to tackle this unemployment – by the way, an amount that you have given your consent. I would like to thank all the social partners for voting unanimously for these measures that are being taken today. And unemployment is falling: a success of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If Vienna, which is under social democratic responsibility, makes a little more effort, then unemployment will go back a little faster – that is what we all wish, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oellinger: Where did unemployment fall? That's not true at all!]] Or if you look at the ÖIAG, the state holding, which manages the interests of the Republic: When the ÖVP and the liberals entered the Federal Government, there were 80 billion Schilling debts. Today the ÖIAG is debt free! – That’s what responsible economic policy looks like, but you don’t like to hear that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A sentence on Europe! One!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: A sentence on Europe!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many banks and insurance companies and other companies in Austria have made excellent use of European enlargement, creating thousands, tens of thousands of jobs, but a bank has speculated billions: the BAWAG, the Bank, which is owned by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is in particular led by the Social Democrats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I would like to tell you that the Social Democrats have lost all social competence. Mr Katzian has today criticized the job creation of part-time jobs as minor jobs. However, if you yourself are the owner of trading companies in which mainly part-time jobs are given, you, Mr Katzian, should be very careful about this criticism of part-time employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One last because today the telegraphers are running that the 500 ÖGB members employed in the AMAG want to leave the Austrian Trade Union Confederation because the trade union leaders do not want to leave their property there because they are not allowed to sell their employee participation because the trade unionists and workers' chamberers are opposed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] President Kalliauer could not go because the executive could no longer guarantee his personal security – such a rage exists there among the workers against the Social Democrats! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mr Kalliauer, President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, Mr Tumpel, you finally shoulder your responsibility and step back.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5260	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – I’m looking for a little more peace, ladies and gentlemen! – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5281	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to follow up the remarks made by my previous speaker and would like to have an answer from the Social Democrats, from the Trade Union Confederation to the question: Why Refuse Are you so opposed to the sale of employee participations at AMAG? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] Have you ever let them execute? – This suspicion is close, because the saying there are chamberers and trade unionists and they do not want to sign. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Schopf, put yourself out here and tell the truth! – I don’t trust you anymore, nor do many others. [[Abg. Shopf: I said it anyway!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Katzian, that was your virgin speech today, and you should have apologised to the BAWAG employees for this abuse, which you are not completely innocent of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The BAWAG employees must be condoned daily for your ways of dealing, for your debt policy, with which you have put billions in the Caribbean in the sand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You are behind the employees of BAWAG – but the BAWAG employees are no longer behind the ÖGB, which must also be clear to you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger, what is stated in the motion for a resolution you have tabled here, you certainly do not mean serious, that cannot be true, something must have gone wrong. [[Abg. Parent: Read]] [[think – talk!]] Perhaps you made a request from the previous year or two years ago, because: On the one hand, you stand out here, Mr Oellinger, and demand employment for everyone, but on the other hand you want to open up the good seven-year transitional arrangement! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Listen, otherwise you don't know each other again! Do you even know what that would bring, what would that have to do with it? – If the seven-year transitional regime on free movement were opened with a view to the new EU countries, it was said that Czechs came from Upper Austria. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're already there anyway!]] The wage difference is 1 : 5. The Czech worker will be commuting daily, working in the area of Freistadt or Linz, can of course easily work around the collective contract wage, is viable in the Czech Republic. – The Trade Union Confederation has not been able to establish a collective contract wage in Austria, even for certain occupational groups, from which workers can live. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] First, the economy would look for cheap labour – that is the first – then thousands of Austrian workers would again be unemployed. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Listen! You're so nervous, you're guilty! The Czech worker would then travel to the Czech Republic with the wage we earned and invest this money in the economy there. Mr Oellinger, please withdraw this request! I know you very differently. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I'm coming to speak to colleagues, Caspar. Colleagues One criticises our Vice-Chancellor and says that nothing has happened in the infrastructure. – Mr Caspar Einem! You were once in the government, supposedly even ministers, and in your time nothing was done out of debt and disposal! You left us a debt of 174 billion euros. [[Abg. Riepl: Now we have 174 billion!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The taxpayers pay €100 million in interest! This money could be invested much better for young people, creating a job for everyone, and much more. This government has made employment programmes, economic programmes, three, four programmes we have made. [[Abg. Shopf: Yes, exactly!]] We have created an apprenticeship support – there has never been as much support as this government has done before. [[Abg. Riepl: But there are no teaching places!]] – teachers enough. Now the economy is required to give young people a chance. There's enough money. [[Abg. Riepl: This is an annual market talk you're holding here!]] For an apprentice, you will receive €400 for the first year of education, €200 for the second and €100 for the third, plus €1,000 per apprentice. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The one who screams is always guilty. – You've managed, we're up! I am glad that we now hold the Presidency in the EU. We have a good program, all look jealously at Austria and say [[Abg. Riepl: All right with us!]] How do they do that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, please, stop!]] - Who's in government? Our ministers and colleagues from the ÖVP. We are an economic party and an employee party! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: You are not a party at all...!]] We're on duty, you've been burdened! With Caribbean business, the waste of billions of membership contributions, the support of criminal situations, the turning on of others, and thereby making the perpetrator a sacrifice, you will not get through. As I said yesterday, I hope that parties with such actions will never come to the government again, for otherwise it says: Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5544	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Requested time: Seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5566	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of the EU Council, Federal Chancellor Schüssel proudly announced that by 2010 two million additional jobs were created annually, which the governments had decided to do. Ten million additional jobs in the coming years, the governments have decided. I wonder who should believe this when you look at what has been decided and promised by the governments in recent years and what has not been settled. You can best understand this in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is to be feared that this is another full-bodied announcement, which will not follow any consequences, and that little will change in the sad situation in the labour market, especially if you look at how little concrete is not just on paper, but actually implemented. You can look at this very well in Austria. Even the European Commission says to the Austrian programmes that they are “ little ambitious” and shows – even much better – how the government is doing here in many cases: The financial resources provided for these programmes do not correspond to the budget figures. In good German: In fact, we cannot imagine how what is on the paper is actually to be implemented. - That's what it looks like! You really have a credibility problem here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to present your lack of credibility in two examples. This is one example of women's employment. It is really a nice topic again and again, as you manage to show that there is a higher rate of employment in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: That's the fact! You're putting it out!]] - Wait a bit! One by one. In the EU section, the female employment rate is around 55 percent – in Austria, 60 percent, you say. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's been a little bit more. That means we're just lying on the paper above the average, but I'm calling you another number: In 2000, we had 86,800 unemployed women, and at the end of 2005, we had 120,300 unemployed women – a plus of 38 percent of the unemployed women. And now, explain to me how this corresponds to an increasing employment rate! In case you can't, I can explain it to you: It is true that you simply divide a large number of jobs that women had in 2000 full-time, simply split into lots of part-time jobs, precarious jobs, from which women can no longer live. [[Abg. Steibl: But admit that many women want it! They're pushing that away too! They're putting away reality!]] And then you're proud of that! - Have fun. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister first said that the government's responsibility is not to create jobs – there are always contradictions whether you decide on jobs or whether you are not responsible, at least you, Mr. Federal Minister, have said today that the policy is responsible for creating framework conditions, and that is, of course, your right. One of these framework conditions to change this disastrous situation of women in Austria would be a more child care. That's what the Greens in Austria say, that's what the European Commission says, you have it in writing from all sides – and what are you doing? Absolutely nothing! This is your responsibility and shows how you care about women's employment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, you have rejected many of the Greens' requests. We have requested more childcare, we have requested better promotion of women in the workplace, we have requested measures to push through the glass ceiling in women's careers, you have rejected all of this. And then you say that the European Union should ensure more women's employment?- Oh, my God! Then start in Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second example: energy; this too has been addressed by you, Mr Federal Minister, today. You have said that this is a very important area – we fully agree with you, of course, but there is also a very interesting field of tension between what you say and what you do. I am also talking about jobs in this context. Massive investment in renewable energy creates jobs. This has already been proved in Germany, and this has also been proved in Austria. In 2004, we had a total of 32 700 jobs in this sector and a value-added of more than € 1 billion, and it would be possible to create around 100 000 additional jobs in the field of renewable energy, energy efficiency technology, building renovation with thermal insulation and the like over the next 15 years. But here too, you do the exact opposite: They want to decide a novel to the Eco electricity Act, which again reduces eco-energy by 80 percent. [[Abg. Krainer: I don't think so! That's not right!]] That is, you talk in one direction and do something in the other direction. Eco electricity promotion is reduced by 80 percent! – Yes, you say so because you agree. [[Abg. Krainer: No!]] I can well imagine that it is unpleasant for you to talk about it, but the fact is that you are slowing down here instead of investing in the field of energy where there really are jobs. A new energy policy for Europe must set the right priorities. This was absolutely missed by German Chancellor Schüssel at the EU summit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] The expansion of nuclear power, which is now contained in the Green Paper, as well as renewable energy, is certainly not the right priority for Europe, both in terms of sustainability and in terms of jobs. And there, too, you failed to do the right thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5687	Next, Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5709	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that Mr Amon points out that the ÖIAG is debt-free. [[Abg. Steibl: gave a good speech!]] I would like to tell you that it has also become power-free. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Worth more than before!]] I would like to say to Mr Öllinger: Mr President, it is indeed necessary to comply with these transitional provisions because there is a great deal of pressure on the labour market, which is no longer to be maintained in the border. We would therefore ask the Federal Government that it should very well claim this three-year extension for Austria, and that I give you a right: The accompanying measures are to be implemented in any case, because a transitional period, no matter how long it may be, will end once and therefore need to be put in place preparatory measures. [[Abg. Amon: (a graphic showing) Mr Bauer,...!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make it clear that it is important to see what the problem is in Austria and also in the rest of Europe. It is a supply-oriented economic policy that leads to high profits, if you want, being also booming exports, but to fewer and fewer jobs being created, because there is a lack of demand orientation that would be necessary to create appropriate purchasing power, mass purchasing power in Austria and also in the rest of Europe. I believe that we all suffer from the lack of demand from people. In the case of studies carried out by economic research institutes, each year it is found that domestic demand is lagging behind, and that is an enormous area. I would therefore like to say that we do not need the policy of the constraints which are laid down here and which is applied so rigidly that it even suffocates positive developments. It is necessary to clarify once: We need public investment, we need to strengthen demand in order to achieve more consumption and an domestic level, which ultimately leads to growth and thus new investments. The real income, ladies and gentlemen, has fallen in all levels of the population, that is a fact. A comparison shows: Domestic demand has reached 2.7 percent from 1996 to 2000, while it has reached 1.3 percent from 2000 to 2005. This is simply too little to achieve that growth target between 2.5 percent and 3 percent we need. This leads to increasing poverty in Austria, to read in the poverty report, according to which 13 percent, i.e. 1 044,000 people, live in poverty, of which 460 000, about 5.9 percent, are in acute poverty. You can't discuss that away, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore believe that policy at different levels needs to be more interconnected, because I believe that, in terms of full employment policy, the EU is primarily required. It is therefore necessary to put in place those measures which are achieved through the linkage of national policies. This includes the financing of European transport networks and the supply of energy as a large area. Employment programmes within the EU must also be coordinated. I admit that it is a step forward that this new policy for growth and employment is now more demanding for national governments, namely, implementation programmes compared to the Lisbon strategy, which had a proper objective, so it was necessary, but which unfortunately had too little commitment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to mention how important it is that we in Austria understand one thing: It is always spoken of by the youth, of the genes­tions of the workers. It should finally be understood that Austria and the European Union need social cohesion. Therefore, it must be in all our interest to give young people the best training they simply need in order to be able to compete in the future. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We need full employment to be able to finance our social systems. That is why we need a common effort in the various fields of policy in order to achieve what we want, namely to live together and to achieve cohesion in a social Europe. In this sense, we have a lot to do, as I mean. We have to make our contributions here in Austria and should also be included directly, because many things we have also been guilty of in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5810	Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5831	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bauer's statements have once again shown what the SPÖ is about when it comes to illuminating and illuminating economic issues, because ÖIAG's wealth is much higher today than in 2000, while we are debt free at the same time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Growth and employment are essential to a positive development. Both are possible only if we create appropriate framework conditions. The Austrian Federal Government, as I believe, has created excellent framework conditions in recent years, through the growth packages, through the tax reform, thus finding a job of 33,000 new to the labour market. Of course, every unemployed person is one too much, we know. It is therefore very important that our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel was able to set clear objectives at the last Council on economic, social and energy issues. In concrete terms, this means greater investment in knowledge and innovation, promotion of SMEs, creation of 2 million jobs per year by 2010 or the establishment, not later than since the Ukraine/Russia dispute, where independence also plays an important role in the security of supply of energy, where our Federal Minister Martin Bartenstein has succeeded in ensuring a clear and rapid order of competitiveness and sustainability, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Eco electricity law!]] In turn, clear targets were set, in addition to the 2 million jobs per year clear targets also in energy policy, namely 20 percent energy saving potential by 2020 or increased the share of renewable energy sources. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you have a measure to take?]] I know you don't want to hear this, but Wolfgang Schüssel has succeeded: by 2015 increasing to 15 percent and increasing the biofuel from 5.75 percent to 8 percent by 2015, my dear colleagues. [[Calls for Greens]] Yeah, I know you don't think that's better. It could be that the SPÖ is even worse off taking 50 percent away in rural areas, for example, and thus putting 530 000 jobs at risk. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] This is economic policy à la SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, as I mean, has really been a great negotiator for Austria. While we can hold the funds for rural areas, Bavaria is getting 45 percent less, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oellinger: There's the CDU on the government!]] You have to say this in all the clarity in this house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That we have more and more unemployed!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government spends so much on labour market measures in Austria each year, as SPÖ, ÖGB, BAWAG have sunk in the Caribbean. This is what the Federal Government is spending on labour market measures. I have to tell you honestly, Mr Katzian, it was your virgin speech here today, but if you say it's none of our business with the ÖGB, then I can only tell you that this is not responsible for what you have said here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why we held back!]] We are concerned about this state-politically important organisation of the ÖGB – that is what I say as a farmer’s representative – so that there will continue to be a functioning social partnership in this country in the future. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Those who blame us, ladies and gentlemen, do not assume responsibility in the ÖGB. Mrs Bures, do not worry that after the next election you will have great responsibility in this country, because this will continue to be done by the Austrian People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5960	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5981	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures and Mr Bauer, I believe you have lost any sense of reality. Not only do you have to answer for mismanagement at BAWAG and ÖGB, but just look at Vienna, which is SPÖ-regulated! A comparison of unemployment figures shows: Every third unemployed woman comes from Vienna. The unemployment rate among women has only increased in Vienna, so Vienna has a declining number of women's employment, while it is rising throughout Austria. This is the reality in Vienna, characterized by a SPÖ-regulated labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we can expect employment growth of 1.3 percent this year, and this shows that it is also possible to achieve a growth of 1 percent throughout the European Union – but only if we take appropriate measures throughout the European Union, many of which have already been implemented in Austria. Austria is a pioneer country in the European Union. A brand new study shows that Austria has made the leap among the top 3 in the European Union as far as competitiveness is concerned. Mrs Sburny, this study shows that Austria has received a top score in terms of women's employment. We have the highest female employment in the entire European Union, even before Denmark and Sweden. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: How many times do I have to explain!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] This quota would probably be even higher, if one were to put forth more effort in Vienna. I have mentioned earlier what the actual unemployment and employment rates in Vienna look like. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU has also recognised that women are key forces in the future. Austria is on the right track, and it is very important that the compatibility of family and work is further promoted throughout Europe and especially in Austria. We are also a show country here, because we are a pioneer in the reconciliation of family and work, but we need to do more. There has to be better cooperation with businesses, better awareness-building. There must be a relationship, there must be a win-win situation on both sides, for businesses and for workers to create family-friendly jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of the issues that we have dealt with and have already implemented are included in the European work programme. The topic of research and development is a very important contribution to growth and employment. Austria has made a very great effort, and we are also at the forefront when it comes to presenting the rate of increase, because in 1999 under a SPÖ government, research and development were not an issue. We were miles away from achieving the research and development rate that we can show this year, because in 2005 this quota amounted to 2.35%, while this year a 2.5% research and development rate is forecast by Statistics Austria, which in turn means growth and jobs in the wider sense. High house! Austria is a pioneer country in the European Union, and hopefully it is still a long way from a catastrophic economic policy of this SPÖ. We hope that the successful path of this government can continue for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6036	As the next speaker, honourable Member has spoken. Hoscher.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6073	But you really won't determine that! If something doesn't fit you, you don't have to be in here! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The speed of my appearance is still determined by me and not you, Mr Wittauer. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon: If you are already going to the areas of economics in Vienna, I would ask you perhaps to go to Lower Austria as well. If you could make it clear to your head of state that he could provide a sufficient number of jobs for his citizens, then there would be no need for 200 000 Lower Austrians to commute to Vienna, for which Vienna provides jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, discussing employment and growth opportunities in the EU, you come relatively quickly and necessarily to an industry – thank God – which is one of the most important sectors in Austria, namely leisure and tourism. In the new Member States alone, the EU estimates the need for new jobs to reach around 3 million. After all, 12 percent of total employment in the EU is already in the leisure and tourism sectors, mainly in SMEs. There is no doubt that Austria has comparative competitive advantages. Nevertheless, it must not be forgotten that Austria is losing market shares in international tourism arrivals. In the period 1990 to 2002, they fell from 6.8% to 4.66 percent in Europe. Without wanting to dramatize now, I must say that there is undoubtedly a need for action. Not for nothing, Commissioner Verheugen noted at the tourism ministerial conference held last week in Vienna that, from a European point of view, the leisure and tourism industry is a key industry, and without questioning subsidiarity. Many aspects of the industry are related to the European level. These are issues such as holiday seasoning, international transport planning, Alpine convention, tax aspects such as the question of the reduced rate of sales, financing issues such as Basel II, the problem of the use of co-financing, where the local tourism industry has considerable need for recovery and great opportunities. For example, in the period 2000 to 2004, there were almost 80 projects with not even €10 million, which were used there. I think Austria should be the spearhead in supporting Commissioner Verheugen in his strategy to promote tourism in Europe. I would have liked the Austrian Presidency to have much more commitment than just holding a two-day conference. One of the specific problems that the EU is addressing in this area is the problem of successors to SMEs. And in Austria too, as we know, thousands of businesses in this sector are in front of handover in the next few years. The EU is thinking, for example, of national successor markets or of modern advisory systems. We, too, have tabled proposals, such as those on the trade order, which, of course, I would say, have been ignored by the government parties as always. [[Abg. Wattaul: Because you have no competence!]] Finally, I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr President. Mr President, in the context of the first reading on the Income Tax Act yesterday, Mr Stummvoll said that I would simply give it to the lobbyists of tourism. – First of all, I'm a tourist speaker, that's my job. Secondly, Mr President, I am proud to praise this industry. There are hundreds of thousands of hard-working employees and tens of thousands of equally diligent and successful entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: But no reds!]] That it has given up the ÖVP to lobby in this area is its problem. – Become me Don't stop them!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6147	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6168	Mr President. High house! Allow me briefly to make a few contributions to some of the contributions made by the Committee on Budgetary Control. (Parliament adopted the legislative I come back to the ultimate objective of our Presidency: to promote an action plan for growth and employment in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and, as a result, to contribute to more employment, especially in Europe. This is and must be our supreme command. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have said here that it would have been removed from the Lisbon Action Plan for more growth and employment, the promotion of social cohesion, you are mistaken. I should like to refer to pages 23 and 24 of the Summit Declaration alone, two sides of the European Heads of State and Government to promote social cohesion, where it is expressly said that it is about creating jobs, both in terms of competitiveness and social cohesion. Social is what creates work, Mr Oellinger. This has not only been true since yesterday, but European Heads of State and Government already said in 2005 when, in their mid-term review, they pointed out that growth and employment, ladies and gentlemen, are in the service of social cohesion. So there has been no change in the European Union's priority series. Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. If, moreover, you and the Greens of Austria believe in this country alone, that we could very soon abolish the transitional periods for the free movement of workers, then you would be unaware of that. But that's where I say Austria has been exposed here. We have the longest border with new Member States. The English have greatly appreciated what the Ministry of the Interior meant was that 13 000 Poles would come – 300 000 have come. We have a labour market that is not as pleasing as I and you would imagine. We therefore see ourselves forced to make use of these transitional periods in the area of freedom of movement for workers. It's no different. Apart from the fact that, of course, we are opening the borders in many areas, also in our own interest. There are no more quotas for key forces from the new Member States. Young people who complete school in Austria can stay and work here. There are border agreements and internship agreements with our neighbours. We will expand this step by step and as far as possible. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have missed the call of trade union representatives – but they seem to be dealing with other problems, I understand – once the Greens demand a legal minimum wage. – Yes, is that what we want in Austria? I know that elsewhere in Europe. But is that the failed way? - I think no. I think it is the social partnership wage-finding, namely at collective contract level, the better way. Finally, one is better able to take account of the needs of individual industries, of opportunities. If we were to meet here once a year to discuss a minimum statutory wage and increase it at the political level, that would certainly be the worse way for Austrian workers, but also for the location and jobs as a whole, from my point of view, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bures, it is a pity that you have taken the issue of youth unemployment as an opportunity to put wrong figures in the world again. include; They spoke of 70 000 on average in 2005. – This is far too high: It was 41 500. In February 2006, it is a little more seasonally, but you will certainly be pleased with me that youth unemployment has been falling for a few months now, as a result of measures that we have always taken together with you, with social democracy – you have gone everywhere. Social democracy, ladies and gentlemen Sburny, has also voted in favour of the second Republic's largest qualification package, which includes €285 million for the qualification of people in Austria. It is not at all true what you say that the Commission would comment on this, because there are few specifics in it. This is expressly highlighted by the Commission as a European best-practice model, praise and recognition are expressed for this because we have a relatively large amount of money in our hands here – and the effect is already evident, ladies and gentlemen. Tourism is an important issue, and I fully agree with Mr Hoscher. I would have liked to see you at this important two-day tourism ministerial conference longer, but you were still registered. Women's employment – all experts in the High House know this – is above average in Austria, and it is increasing. That is important, we support, that is also part of it. Overall, I can tell you that, in the end, this qualification package on the one hand and growth on the other, which has attracted a little over the last few months – and here Germany is of importance, since the stronger consumption in Austria is important, as the better performance of the European Union is important – lead to further relaxation on the labour market, so that I assume that the figures are getting better from month to month. At the end of February, I was able to tell you that the rise in unemployment is almost stopped – I expect you to be able to say by the end of March that the rise in unemployment in this country will at least be stopped. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6244	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A real correction to Mr Mag's statements was received. Hoscher: Vienna now has as many jobs as 1956, and I think we are writing today 2006! [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== March 2006 – I quote –: “Europe hardly gets away from the spot on its way to more jobs and growth, but within the Union there are gazelles and snails – Austria has been pushed up among the top three in the previous year”, a gazelle, with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] That is why we are just behind Denmark and Sweden. Best marks were also awarded to Austria, including in the category of women's employment, energy efficiency and school degrees. [[Abg. Oils: Were you inside the Commission? School degrees!]] – Read it in the “Kurier”! Perhaps the “curer ” is lying? Say that! Austria is also fourth in Europe with female unemployment, which has already been mentioned, behind Ireland, Great Britain and the Netherlands. And thanks to the Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and the employment initiative of Federal Minister Bartenstein, “Company Workplace” are made available to the AMS in addition to the basic funding. – This is the largest labour market package that is really unprecedented in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria with Wolfgang Schüssel is also more human! Take, for example, Germany: When the Socialists were still on the row in Germany, there were 1,000 jobs a day less, but in Austria there are more 100 jobs per day. Or Ireland: Although this country has the lowest unemployment rate – minus 4.3 percent – but a female employment rate of only 56.5 percent. Even if my colleague Sburny doesn't want to hear: Austria, on the other hand, has a female employment rate of 60.7 percent. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes, but the jobs are not full jobs!]] - I'm still here to inform you. Family promotion is also a matter of heart to us in Austria. I quote the “profile” of 27. March, not the title story, but a lot about it: “Children are expensive, which is why the state is deeply involved.” And when the little Paul comes to the kindergarten in the fourth year of life, almost €25 000 have been flown from the state to the parents' wallet. – I think this is a measure that can really be shown. We have also introduced parental leave. A survey by the Fessel Institute in the summer of 2005 revealed that 66 percent of those working part-time or low-time are satisfied with their part-time work, with women even 70 percent. And 80 percent of men and women working part-time do not want to be full-time for some time. – We must accept that! We do not have to determine fathers and mothers! [[Abg. Steibl: You determine!]] This is a free decision that parents make! If workers' chamber president Tumpel claims in an APA report that only 15 percent of them work part-time voluntarily because they do not want to work full-time, this is simply wrong and this survey – see Fessel Institute – clearly disproves. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Social is what creates work! We have also introduced the new “handling” and much more. But what did the SPÖ do, which is called the social party? – It criticises the pension reform and the family and social policies, does not want us to be at the top of Europe, it invests in Gagen and pension funds of its officials, it plays trade union funds in the Caribbean. The SPÖ has simply lost credibility in this area! I'll tell you: There's a child of concern, yeah! – This is the Vienna labour market with a socialist mayor. Every third unemployed woman comes from Vienna. Our child is the ARBÖ, where 700 employees could be put on the street. Our child is the BAWAG, the ÖGB. Our child is the mismanagement of the SPÖ – with a double moral, as it does not go on!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6357	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a very good position in the international comparison and within Europe, as I believe, and is well positioned: With all the key indicators, economic indicators, we are at the forefront of employment, and also with regard to the unemployment rate, we are well placed in international, European comparison, as well as in the field of research and development and investment in infrastructure. Despite this comparison, ladies and gentlemen, it is and remains a challenge for the Federal Government to continue to ensure that these further improve our economic data, that we take an even better position. – This is ultimately the result of the efficient reform work of this Federal Government. Now there is the now widely known SPÖ economic programme: Alfred Gusenbauer, with his SPÖ, comes up with the plan and offers solutions – solutions that require that it is time to share in Europe a redistribution through the tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about harmonizing corporate taxes based on a uniform basis of economic policy. We certainly do not want one thing: a European counterpart to the Soviet five-year plan. We do not want a plan economy in Europe, we say no to it! There are two reasons, namely: In order to be successful – as this Federal Government does – it should and must provide national design opportunities. In the past, we have proved that we meet the requirements by providing packages for growth and employment. This Federal Government has implemented the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. And, ladies and gentlemen, that is the second reason, we do not want national governments to have the opportunity to point out to Brussels their inaction, their inability to stop them, that they are the requirements of Brussels. The economic competence of SPÖ is also reflected – from the “consumer” argument to the ÖGB/BAWAG scandal with AK participation, at least if I take the supervisory activity of AK President Tumpel. Otherwise, of course, it was always the case that precisely this area – the ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers – was considered to be the precursor organizations of the social democrats, and child-moving is being committed today. Today, child mooring is carried out: We heard it today from Mr Maier, yesterday from Cap, from Puswald, from Wittmann, from Matznetter, and it is to blame as we could hear, Federal Minister Grasser. That is, there is an exchange of victim and perpetrator role. Apparently, the ÖGB has also taken a bond in Germany – one often looks across borders and looks elsewhere where it is supposed to be better – at least if one follows the reports of the media. This report reports that the trade union holding BGAG has now been sold. It was about the fact that this union holding had to ultimately make sure to bring the General MortgageBank Rheinboden, which was completely marod, to the man. To this end, corresponding funds were needed – I suppose, even those contributions from the trade union members. There was a fresh borrowing of €2.5 billion to avert the pleite, a further €2.4 billion the trade union has shot in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, another evidence of SPÖ's "economic competence" can be found in today's APA announcement. This is about the so-called sauna affair, about business relations of ex-Politics and about the Vienna criminalist Ernst Geiger. Business relations with the FKK sauna managing director were maintained by the former Interior Minister Mag. Karl Schlögl, just as Andreas Staribacher, now only, was on the 10th. March, apparently gave up his participation in the company on this private foundation, just as ex-State Secretary Peter Wittmann, who is unfortunately not in the hall at the moment. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] And then representatives of social democracy come to this speaker's desk and talk about the working conditions of women. If this, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, is your way of creating quality jobs in Austria, then I think, this is putting the floor to the barrel! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is the summit!]] I do not expect you in your practical or private activity to try to increase the female employment rate. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the European Council made clear decisions on the priority for employment and growth. I agree with Mr Amon, Mr Hofmann, Mr President-in-Office of the Council that this motion for a resolution has already been distributed. In this context, the National Council supports the summit results, which are to be consistently implemented in Austria. It is about ten million new jobs to be created within the EU by 2010. These are employment and training guarantees for young people. A focus is on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also about research initiatives, and it is also about continuing the successful path towards renewable energy and energy savings, as well as the involvement of the social partners at European level. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has taken the form of a reform government. We have done good for this country, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6424	Mr Amon, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann has been handed over in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6518	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6540	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hofmann, there is really nothing there is not – even in the new impulses for employment and growth policy. But there's also a great deal to watch out for. In the context of the Single Market, it is very clear that there are also new impulses of social dumping and distortion of competition. Why do I say that? – An example from my region, from the Inn quarter and from the border near Bavaria. That's not something I'm inventing now, but the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" entitled "Oberrösterreichische Nachrichten". March very large: “The Bayern threatens our jobs by free work”. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? What to watch out for? – A German construction company has won the call for tender for the construction of the Altheim bypass. In retrospect, it has been argued that the employees of the German construction company have to work twelve hours a month for the benefit of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, if this continues, what is going on? – Social dumping is threatening; everything is on the back of the workers, everything is on the back of the Austrian companies, who do not come along, who do not want to join them and do not want to join them. I would really ask you, Mr Federal Minister, that the Services Directive, which is now finally being passed in Parliament, be passed immediately and quickly here in the House a implementing law. To revive the Lisbon processes, that is to say to fill this framework, that is the task of the national states! And it is precisely this growth, ladies and gentlemen, who really play a part in the social dumping sector, that belongs to a law of transposition. There has now been a meeting between Austria and Bavaria. In neighboring Bavaria, it is already common for companies to leave the official tariff models, the workers concerned agree to work – no, rather work for a few hours for free than lose their jobs. And with lower costs in the back, Bayern will be putting our companies out and our employees will have to carry it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the Europe we want for our employees. This is not the Europe we want for our companies. We want a Europe that creates competition, social security and employment opportunities in the same way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6585	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6606	Mr President. Federal Minister! The debate on employment and growth policies in the EU has been reduced to the sauna and BAWAG in stages. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Of course, we should not be surprised if, as a general rule, there is no more effective agreement than only relevant questions, let alone the answers as regards EU economic policy.– That's not going to be further. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I have to draw your attention to something because it is up-to-date. The Federal Chancellor announced today, as I could see from television, on the occasion of his regular Council of Ministers PK, as far as the BAWAG is concerned – as we clearly agree, all four political groups – that it is finally possible to look at – from me, from the word “BAWAG” – what the auditors actually do in this country, in this case the bank auditors. Once again, the famous KPMG, which started from the EStAG – which is familiar to you anyway, yes thanks – is everywhere where it goes wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] This does not surprise me: if you look at how, for example, one savings bank after another is “knocked” in Styria, for the benefit of Mr. Treichl at the end – so everything remains in Austria anyway, only a poor region will be carried away under the back of the ass. It's always the KPMG. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That would be an interesting process if these things were examined, I would give the chancellor the right. Even more interesting is – because it concerns state responsibility – what these commissioners actually do when the day is long; there have been many days. And what about the banking supervision, the current financial market supervision, which at the time is still directly under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance – now there is another construction –? That is really a worthwhile question. If Mr. Vice-Kanzler Gorbach once again comes to the idea of asking for an investigation committee on this matter, he will probably insist that there is less to be found in the BAWAG – for there is no federal execution there – but that there is very much to be found in terms of what has actually happened in the Ministry of Finance and in the mandated central bank, where there are tests, which in fact led to the conclusion in 2001 that it has not been done with right things in the front and back. So thank you very much for the keyword “BAWAG”! I couldn't get used to using the speaking time now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the European question: We must be careful not to become victims of our own statistical players, just like victims of our own propaganda – something like this happens more often. Mrs Steibl, if it is the same as it is now in these statistics, then it would be great! Women's employment keyword: If there were to be three or two-hour employment relationships from the many ten-hour employment relationships or five-hour employment relationships, they would also appear in employee statistics, and then it would be even more so. So... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes, right!]] What's the matter? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Poor employees are not in statistics!]] How far are they going? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Poor employees – i.e. 333 € per month – are not in statistics!]] Yes, but according to EU statistics – that is, small employees are not recorded; I think you are reciprocating the even better Austrian situation here. But I know it is at EU level that we are being conducted in statistics at more than one hour, and there you can see where that leads. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! That's right!]] So we need to be careful – I don't take no one – that we don't even sit up on any statistical scrap baptism and then wonder about our analyses when we slip down constantly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now again on the EU level: If you think about what this so-called Lisbon process – “strategy” I think I could do in terms of overstretching – then you can always find that something is not in agreement here, either deliberately or inadvertently. In the first phase we had a wonderful wish list of goals. But this has not at all led anyone to want to pool adequate measures to that end. Anyway, that was my impression and also our criticism. In the second phase, it was admittedly better with the bundles of measures, even criteria have been invented – but keep in mind that the whole thing has got a clear impact! It is based solely on national competences, which is not wrong in certain things. Especially in the micro area, in the area of questions of regulation or deregulation – now Wursch, from which ideological side – this certainly belongs there. But where macro-measures are needed, of course, the Union as a whole is increasingly required. But nothing happens there! No, even under the word ‘Lisbon Process’, you are giving yourself a free letter that all national governments are finally to take action, and we must start here with us. This is also true in certain areas, but it only makes it easier for one to escape into this false idea that macro-policy could also be used efficiently in smaller open economies, just like Austria. I can't do that! This is even stated in every textbook, but this insight into the entire Lisbon nebula, which is constantly being spread there, is eroded. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I ask myself this a second time, and pretty slowly I really come to this answer: That can only be more intention! Because there are basically intelligent people at work, you want to assume, so it will probably be more deliberately so, and there the matter does not go together. Look, you're not bringing meat to the skeleton in all this Lisbon thing! Now you fold around with this thing and wonder why the jubilant stays out of the gallery. I don't wonder. In the end, it's also little obvious, and in reality, people probably know better than we believe what it would be all about. If macro-policy is needed, then where the EU could jointly invest! For example, in another energy policy: It does not help if we write “15 percent in 2015”. Yeah, that sounds kind of together, that's what matters in numbers, but there's no catalogue of measures! It will also have to cost a little, and this will require a different budgetary policy from the current one at EU level. All of this is left out – probably deliberately. The same applies to transport policy. There is nothing to do with this, either, when chancellor bowl – I come to the end of your pleasure anyway – turns up and, thoughtfully, there are meritful things of itself, namely, a tax perhaps on the sector of aviation fuel or shipping, to strengthen own resources – that has other good reasons why it seems to be reasonable – Tobin Tax the same. There are not even credible initiatives by Austria in this context, and that really saddens the conclusion on the point. We have made such requests here in the House, which are discussed in four-party proceedings in a way, and that is not the case. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know what's coming out? The whole thing only has a sense – it is now formulated by the ÖVP and, unlike the bowl, announced overnight – when it is addressed on the whole globe. That would be nice and desirable, but there we could wait for an interplanetary connection! For we do not have to wait for the USA in the next few years; at least Chancellor Schüssel will hardly convince President Bush of this in the remaining three months of his presidency. And you are equally persuasive with your announcements!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6744	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6774	Mr President. Federal Minister! I've been waiting for this thing with amazement. The fact that it comes from the FPÖ must probably be due to the fact that such things are located there – when you think of Kabas. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: There you can be excited...!]] [[Abg. Lens: Nothing can surprise us anymore!]] You said in your speech, Mr Hofmann, that I and a former Minister of the Interior would be involved in the “Sauna affair”. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] - I'm holding on: I'm not involved! I am not involved in business because there has been no business contacts in this affair, nor am I privately involved, nor am I in private contact with the managing director. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... in the sauna?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You weren't there at all?]] The fact is that he was the managing director of a company that Karl Schlögl and I belonged to, until November 2003, we separated ourselves from him in November 2003 and after that he left the company. Since then, I have not had any commercial or private contact with this gentleman, so this accusation has been completely out of the air. [[Abg. Murauer: Are you a co-owner or not?]] - No, I'm not. [[Abg. Murauer: Not co-owners?]] No, no, no, I think that's an honorable thing you're doing. I really think it is presumptuous in the extreme case, because because of this newspaper article that I was not even asked about, my two daughters, twelve and fifteen years old, have been plagued in school today. I consider this whole process of the newspapers to be an honorable and abbreciative process, and I am looking for you, also in the sign of fairness: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's how we do it all the time!]] Not personal interruptions on this level in this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6900	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on the abolition of transitional periods on the labour market and the accompanying package of measures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, colleagues and colleagues on priority for employment and growth – clear decisions at the European Council on 23 and 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. (E 177.) [[14:49:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-30-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6955	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 816/A to 819/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 4101/J to 4109/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 26 March. April 2006, 10 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
