ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e4908	I'm opening the 142. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 140 and 141. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Scheucher-Pichler and Wimmer. [[09:02:07]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e4942	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Friedrich Verzetznich has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr. Wolfgang Katzian in his place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the writer, Mrs Binder-Maier, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e4981	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5002	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5018	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5042	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for State Defence Günther Platterwill be represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwill be represented by the Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallat. [[09:04:02]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5081	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘The results of the European Council in Brussels, 23 and 24. March 2006’ First of all, Mr Spindelegger has spoken. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5111	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We want to start this National Council Day with a welcome topic, namely the analysis of the European Council, chaired by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. This day we will still have enough to deal with the scandals around the BAWAG and a red network in Austria. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a less encouraging chapter. Therefore, let us not first look at the Caribbean, but at Brussels! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We've got on 23/24 in the last week. In March, a European Council chaired by Austria, which, I believe, has also made very decisive points. I therefore do not understand – and may say so at the outset – that small opposition politicians today say that nothing has been specifically decided there. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, leave it! If Austria has the Presidency in Europe and really brings good results home, then leave these small settings! It has really been decided great things, and Austria has been able to profile itself in Europe. And we should all be happy about this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have already given a clear signal to the question that a Presidency has to determine, namely which issues will be discussed at such a summit: Employment, growth and energy. Employment and growth – these are the pressing issues that every Austrian and European citizen raises today because it is important to him that his children, that his grandchildren, and that he himself have a job in a work process and can be successful there. This is why employment and growth are the key issue that Austria has put at the top of the list of priorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Take a look at the concrete decisions on this. These can actually be seen. With regard to employment, under the Austrian Presidency, the body of the highest Heads of State and Government in Europe has decided that each year we want to create two million jobs, which, broken down to every Member State, means that there is another perspective there, that there is employment and that there are programmes for achieving such employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] That's not supposed to be a concrete goal? – This is a very concrete goal that gives many people hope again. I should like to explain how we have done this in Austria. We have already presented an employment programme. Last year we decided a package for more employment of € 285 million, in addition to for 2006. What's going on? – It is not only money spent; it is precisely tried to create work where work is requested by promoting training in the health professions by promoting training in the care professions by providing re-entry assistance. These are very concrete measures, which will now result in 25 employment programmes in a large European context, thus effectively combating unemployment at its root. That's what we want! And that is why this is a great success for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: Look at the specific goals for young people who may not have a job at all! By 2007 – as decided by the European Council – the issue of young school leavers being given a job will be given priority by setting themselves the goal of providing a job to a young school leaver within six months, within a year, to provide an apprenticeship, to provide a training opportunity. This means that young people get a very concrete perspective. That's not supposed to be a concrete goal? – Ladies and gentlemen! This is an ambitious plan, which must first be implemented everywhere, but within a year, until 2007, that must stand. I think that this is a decisive step forward for Europe as a whole and therefore I very much welcome it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What do we have to show Austrians in Europe? What have we done? – Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have specifically launched an apprenticeship offensive with the so-called Blum-Bonus. Each company that creates additional apprenticeships receives a special bonus from the state. What did that do? Today, we can all be pleased that 9 000 additional teaching places have already been created in Austria, i.e. young people have a concrete perspective. And that is particularly important to us. At European level, in the European context, this means that there will be such an offensive in 25 Member States. In 25 Member States, therefore, young people who do not have a job today have a concrete job prospects in the future, because national programmes must ensure that this perspective stands by the end of 2007. And that's what we want: Jobs for young people in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let's look at the topic of growth! If we in Europe today want to have an opportunity to prove ourselves on the world market, to succeed in this difficult competition, then we need concrete measures. In which sector? – In the research and development sector. We have a high level of education. We can play this card. Therefore, we must make every effort to make more money available in this sector. Therefore, there is the very concrete decision of the European Council that by 2010 expenditure on research and development will have to rise to 3 percent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are very concrete goals – and not any talk about the future. Each Member State must present an ambitious programme in order for it to be able to provide research and development, and for that purpose funds will be made available. And this also means that by 2010 we will spend €100 billion more on research than today. These are very specific figures – and this will also make a decisive contribution to the competitiveness of Austria. This is a concrete goal – and that is what we want in Europe: more growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let's look at the energy sector: At the beginning of the Austrian EU Presidency, we had to see painfully how much we depend on energy supplies from non-European countries. At the beginning of the year, at the beginning of the Austrian EU Presidency, there was an energy crisis in Europe, as 50 percent of gas supplies from Russia no longer flowed. But with all of us, as I mean, this has led to a phase of uproar – rather painful. And that is why the Austrian EU Presidency – rightly – took the issue of energy as a priority at the last spring summit. In Europe, we need to get away from this dependence, we need ambitious targets to promote renewable energy sources and to play a greater role in the energy process than before. – And: said, done! Look The results can be found at: Quite specific objectives have been formulated in this context, and an action plan on energy efficiency has also been drawn up, in which we will continue to save through technology promotion, especially where energy may be consumed to a too high degree today. Furthermore, there is the very concrete plan that renewable energy should have reached a brand of 15 percent by 2015. A very ambitious and perfectly right goal, as I mean. We in Austria have already done a lot about this: Look For example, you are only looking at our biomass projects; as is the production of energy with hydropower in our country! However, this also needs a European perspective. In any case, these concrete objectives show that sustainability is for the first time a major issue in Europe – and that is what we want to achieve in the energy sector: not to be dependent, but to promote renewable energy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen, this means that German Chancellor Dr. Schüssel has chosen the right topics with his EU Presidency – and that he has shown a Presidency that can really be seen. This must be brought together first that these concrete objectives will be implemented through decisions of the European Council. And of course these measures also bear an Austrian manuscript. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what we have done in terms of employment and the fight against youth unemployment, how we are trying to get hold of this! Look at what we have done in the direction of growth, research and development! Austria is in third place in the European Union today! It's a brand that someone needs to imitate us. Therefore: We have, as I think, every reason to be satisfied in this respect too. On the side of the opposition in Austria, it is criticized that not all that is a problem in Europe has been done. – I can only say, ladies and gentlemen: After three months of our presidency, no one can expect it either! Let me judge someone in the Austrian Presidency who is not considered to be a great friend of Austria. Jacques Chirac, President of France, said that the Austrian Presidency was excellent and very well prepared in terms of ideas, dynamics and leadership. According to Chirac, the summit had taken place under the best conditions and the concrete decisions were proof that Europe was moving forward. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel is not only a good Austrian head of government, but now also a statesman of European formats.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5226	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on a preliminary opinion. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5248	Mr President. High National Council! I should like to comment briefly on the European Council. At the beginning, many issues and objectives that we have set ourselves were very controversial. When we met in the main committee last week, it was true that practically all concrete joint projects were rejected by a majority of the Member States or have not yet been accepted. However, our team has succeeded in emphasizing for all our constant representatives to the EU now, Ambassador Gregor Woschnagg, the Foreign Minister, all the ministers of expertise, that is, the whole team, all the objectives we have set ourselves in the conclusions of the European Council. And that is something that has not been taken for granted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second one: We have made it quite clear that we want to raise the Austrian model of good cooperation – not always without discussions, but genuine, honest cooperation – between the various levels of government and social partners to the European level, so to speak. That is why, for the first time, we have drawn the representatives of the European social partners to the deliberations of the European Council. The representatives of European trade unions, Méndez, and the representatives of European employers, Seillière, together with the President of the European Central Bank – also a premiere – presented their ideas on how we can stimulate growth and employment in Europe. I believe that there is already the Austrian manuscript to be seen, something that hopefully makes school, because together we are undoubtedly stronger than when everyone acts on their own. So what has been agreed in these deliberations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all in the area of growth and employment, a subject which has also been discussed at this spring summit? – We are not satisfied with the presentation of the first six years of the Lisbon Strategy. But now we have a historic opportunity: a growing economy, and optimism in the large EU countries is growing. There may be a special situation in France, but otherwise, as I think, there is quite good expectations. We have done our utmost to re-establish two million additional jobs each year by means of appropriate measures, especially with regard to the framework conditions of the soon 27 EU Member States, which means employment growth of about 1 percent per year. This would result in 10 million jobs by the year 2010. A very important and concrete goal – and this is also achievable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, this is not to be created by the governments or by the Commission – as I am not changing my line at all – because jobs are created by businesses, especially by medium-sized enterprises, a subject which was discussed widely for the first time at European level. There are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU – and these are our hopes in terms of employment and additional growth policies, especially in terms of additional jobs. If we make it easier for these companies to work, then hope is alive. Again: It's an attainable goal! Take only Austria, one of the countries that is always referred to as a model, as well as Denmark, Finland or Sweden. Austria is one of these three, four EU Member States. In Austria we are expected to have an employment growth of 1.3 percent this year. So: 1 per cent employment growth for all can be achieved, with measures that we have long implemented in Austria. And many of the issues that we have dealt with are now in the European work programme. For example, 85 percent of all 22-year-olds are expected to have completed general higher education. By the end of 2007, every young European should be offered either a job, a apprenticeship or a training opportunity – even within four months by the end of 2010. Other objective: Reduce the number of school dropouts to 10 percent. In my opinion, this is one of the most important points that we do not forget young people in this growth and employment strategy, but rather – on the contrary – allow them all the opportunities of the world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the field of research, therefore, very concrete support, namely through the European Institute of Technology, although at first very controversial. There has actually been exactly the same discussion as in Austria: The European universities have feared that money will be taken away from them, the Max Planck Institute, for example, or other institutions, have expressed concern that parallel bureaucracies would arise, and so on. – We have reached a yes to the EIT, the European Institute of Technology, but: There must be no mega-bureaucracy, but it has to be a slim and powerful network. And we will be right today with the decision on the Austrian IST, the Institute of Science and Technology, because with it we have succeeded in following this European strategy, something that we have always proposed, as you know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The common objective is also very concrete: 3 percent for research. That was far, far away – we are now 2%. For the first time we succeeded – in turn a thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and the Minister of Education – that we have recorded in an Annex what each country has to do in order to achieve this common goal – an increase in research growth per year. In addition, we have also undertaken to move the middle class particularly to the centre. We want to implement lower fees, simplified reporting requirements in statistics, an important and at the same time annoyed issue for all small and medium-sized enterprises. We have given the Commission a mandate to present predictable and quantifiable directives on how to reduce the administrative costs for small businesses. This has been excellent for the Dutch, and we will consider whether we want to transfer this model, which is now also being examined by the Commission, to Austria. We want to allow a young businessman to set up a business within a week; we want to create a central point of contact, a one-stop shop by 2007. The Commission has even agreed to a longer period of resistance, the level of the so-called de minimis rule, below which no The Commission will review the internal market with a view to doubling it. Thus, a long-term demand of Austria is fulfilled for the first time. We have taken the European Investment Bank into account. It will now spend significantly more money on research, trans-European networks and SMEs, for SMEs and R & D €15 billion in addition, and for energy efficiency and trans-European networks €25 billion in addition. Quite specific measures that will help achieve the goal of additional 2 million jobs per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, the debate on the new energy policy was very exciting. This is a new topic, certainly also caused by the “resurrection call” at the beginning of the year when the gas supplies of Russia were halved. Federal Minister Martin Bartenstein has been able to restore the supply capacity to full within four days through very clever and prudent negotiations. It was a very good interaction with the Commission, with Russia, with Ukraine, with all areas. To debate this issue of the new energy policy, to strengthen security of supply, to increase competitiveness and to improve environmental quality, to improve and to improve environmental efficiency, was of course a very exciting discussion, a discussion initiated by Angela Merkel. We have set ourselves some specific objectives: First: Cross-border electricity trade is expected to reach 10 percent, which is an important issue because of the need to strengthen the networks, of course, because we can help each other better in a crisis case too. There have already been a number of blackouts, in Switzerland, in Hesse, in Italy, in Great Britain. So this is a very important area. Next goal: Strengthening and increasing the total share of renewable energy to 15 percent – very controversial initially. We are at the moment far away from this goal, but it can be reached if we, as it were, clear the brake gap and allow more power plants. In the field of hydropower in particular, huge reserves are broken. By the way, we can free up the possibilities of private capital to the €1 000 billion for the expansion of the networks, for new power plants and for pipelines. There are job opportunities inside, which can now be made easier with these decisions in the back. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have undertaken to significantly increase the use of biofuels to 8 percent. To be honest, I would have been even more ambitious, but I admit that there is still a lot of research to be done. The second generation of bio-fuels is to be expected. We need new engines. The current ones are broken if you mix more than 5 or almost 6 percent. But there is still potential in this area. Furthermore, a very important decision: Together we want to make an energy saving of about 20 percent, so that we can make the most of it. Ladies and gentlemen! For the next time – and this is still part of this Council – we have undertaken, especially now in the trilogue, to create more clarity through the new financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013. This is a very important issue. The Minister of Finance will hold crucial talks with all the countries, Parliament and the Commission during these days. We are preparing a subsidiarity conference to be held the week after Easter in St. Pölten, just under the Austrian Presidency. The enlargement debate, in particular the question of the European Union's capacity to accept, which the Foreign Minister has always called for, is now being accepted by everyone and is to be secured at a special summit of Foreign Ministers on the future of Europe at the end of April/beginning of May. We want not only to discuss the European model of life but also to write it down in concrete terms. And we want the 9th. In May, as a European day, such a broad discussion would be useful. We are working on the establishment of a European Fundamental Rights Agency in Vienna. Perhaps even the Institute for Equal Treatment – the “gender equality pact” – could be established there. And then, in summer, we want to present a choreography for the next steps in the process of the European Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a rich work programme! And we're not bad on the road, as I mean. Many things have already happened, such as this week's extremely interesting conclusion of European driving licence, European Road Costs Directive, issues that have not been completed since many, many presidencies, but: We still have a lot of work in front of us! We count on your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5451	We are now entering the list of speakers. First of all, Mr Dr. Stummvoll. His speaking time, like all the others who are now taking part in the debate, is 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5475	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the results of this EU summit under the Austrian Presidency, we have several reasons for joy, I believe. First point: The planning, preparation and implementation of this summit were marked by authority, dynamics and rich in ideas. – This is not the opinion of the government representatives, ladies and gentlemen; Michael Spindelegger already said: This is the opinion of French President Chirac, the Chirac, who was one of the main exponents of sanctions against Austria a few years ago. President Chirac also said: So far, Austria has held an excellent presidency. – Highly complimented by an opponent of this government in 2000. Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe the professionalism, the competence and the skill of your negotiation have also convinced the French President. We are again in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Similar voices came from German Chancellor Angela Merkel. She meant: As President-in-Office of the Council, Wolfgang Schüssel has set the political course for the future. Jean-Claude Juncker, a European first hour, Prime Minister of Luxembourg, has meant that he is very satisfied with the results and has impressed him very much, is the firm will of Wolfgang Schüssel to enforce the goals set. We know this from Austrian politics, but now also at European level: the firm will to achieve political goals. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is the merit of Wolfgang Schüssel, Ursula Plassnik and our whole team that we have put that issue at the top of the European Union, which, I believe, is most moving people today. We can see that the EU is seen as a security platform, as a platform for peace, as a platform of stability. But where people have high expectations, these are the areas of growth, employment and jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that for many years, including the opposition, it has been criticised that, for example, in the field of monetary policy, the Maastricht Treaty sets very specific quantitative targets, but that the same is not true of employment policy. For the first time, Member States have been able to take on a commitment to create two million jobs per year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge step forward, a quantum leap in European policy, to create for the first time quantifiable objectives in the field of employment, employment and jobs! It is similar in the field of research: the establishment of a 3 percent research rate as a commitment of individual Member States, the establishment of the European Institute of Technology, where we will bring in our Institute of Science and Technology. These are all objectives, ladies and gentlemen, which have not yet been realized before the summit. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: It is the merit of Austria that we first stressed the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. We have 24 million small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, which create 140 million jobs. And the bill of our Federal Chancellor was a very simple one, he meant: If only every second company creates a job, we have these additional 10 million jobs by 2010. Why can Austria go ahead with good example in Europe, ladies and gentlemen? – Because we are credible because we can prove that we have made a policy for small and medium-sized enterprises since the political turnaround in 2000. It was the departure from that policy that encouraged nationally deficient large-scale enterprises, see nationally-owned industry. It was a conscious approach to the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the job engine in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I could now mention a long list of the measures we have taken since 2000: tax advantage of the profit not taken, corporate tax reduction for the many small Gesmbhs, abolition of the 13. Sales tax and, and, A fourth point, ladies and gentlemen, I say this against the background of what is happening in France: Strikes, demonstrations, street fights: It was our Federal Chancellor, who, as President-in-Office of the Council, introduced our export articles to the social partners. With regard to all the problems currently encountered by the social partners, because a pillar is in difficulties at the moment: This Austrian export policy is a social partnership, which is a matter of putting together, discussing the problems together and discussing them together. The challenge is a European model, and it is the merit of our Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister and the whole team that we have implemented these issues: first employment policy as a priority in the EU, second, the introduction of small and medium-sized enterprises as a job engine and third social partnership, social dialogue instead of labour struggle. This is the merit of our presidency and will work for a long time over this half-year.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5570	To the speaker's seat, Mr. Dr. Cap. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5591	Yes, Federal Chancellor, what are you telling us here?- Oh, my God! You have more than 380 000 unemployed to answer in Austria! They have a so-called increase in employment, which is no one, because in the full equivalent it means a loss of 30,000! I wonder, What have you done in the European Union so far, before you were President-in-Office of the Council, where unemployment has risen to 30 million? What you have described to us here can have been at most the result of a five-hour meeting, because it is non-binding, it is inconclusive, and there is ultimately no obligation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That could be said by the bar! The “Strache of the SPÖ”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] They say even all the time, we have a self-obligation. So it's left to everyone whether he does it or if he doesn't. And that must also be told to the listeners and listeners so that they do not believe that these are fixed decisions. [[Abg. Großruck: (to SPÖ) You are work destroyers, not sheepmen!]] I can still remember how there was an employment initiative in the European Union years ago, where the Austrian Federal Government did not do anything. And I can well remember how the debate started on the relaxation of the Maastricht criteria, so that the money for employment initiatives can be used, and the Minister for Finance Grasser has moved around in Europe and said: Everyone who participates in this should lose the right to vote! – All of this under your tolerance, Federal Chancellor! Now, because the PR advisers have told you, a few months before the National Council elections, you need a little social rhetoric, Mr. Bundeskanzler, and operate social rhetoric, now you suddenly discover areas that we have been addressing here for years, but only rhetorical, without liability, without concrete implementation measures. [[Call the ÖVP:BAWAG! BAWAG!]] That's actually your result. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are otherwise so diligent when quoting international media. Why didn't you quote anything today? I can tell you why: because what you brought into the European Union as a result of a 5-hour meeting did not find any precipitation in the international media, because of notable insignificance. This is the problem because in reality this does not involve any liability. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: Energy policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] – Concentrate a little, and write along! – What you have brought in to energy policy, the Club of Rome said 36 years ago. Now you're discovering the energy saving. I wonder, What steps have you taken against nuclear energy, against the renaissance of nuclear energy? That's what you're saying: For God's sake do not touch, this should continue to be national! [[Call the ÖVP:Kreisky!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I know where the responsibilities are. But what are you doing in your capacity as President-in-Office so that we can counteract these renaissance efforts of nuclear energy, which are on the rise again? There's nothing you've done, and of course you're not willing to admit this, but it's the truth. Then there's another thing to do: Constitutional Treaty. You have not even begun the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, but you have already had a re-enactment on the Constitutional Treaty, because it was not agreed with the Dutch countries which immediately said: It's not gonna happen. – I still see the Foreign Minister Plassnik in front of me today, how she had to confess: failed! You say you have a target catalogue – you can naturally discuss many points of the target catalogue – but where was the preparation for this target catalogue, so that it is not just a target catalogue, but a concrete, binding implementation programme? – Of course not available. Again unprofessional! Read the “Presses”, there is a small but very interesting article: “Verhofstadt advertises for ‘Kerneuropa’”! They are forcing this enlargement process at the pace of how it is neither wanted by the population nor tolerated by the EU. You also say that you have invented the word ‘inclusion’, which is not true either, because the Copenhagen criteria have long stood in the way that if new members are admitted, they have to examine their capacity to accept. – What have you done over the last six years to define what the European Union’s capacity to accept is? You didn't do anything! They are forcing an unscrupulous enlargement process, and that is exactly what Mr Verhofstadt says in the press today: This will lead to a core Europe. That is, the EU will expand, expand, expand. A fine core will form, and Austria we will have to look for on the map. This is the result of your non-policy! And that is why those who have said that it is a Presidency of inadequacies and inactivity.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5716	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. – 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5744	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Cap blames the government and all of us on unprofessionality, I can only take this as a compliment. I agree with you that we are unprofessional in relation to your policy, because we are certainly not able to achieve such a professional service of plowing, bad luck and panning, as you have brought him together. We're unprofessional that's what you're allowed to do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] From ARBÖ via BAWAG to ÖGB, you have demonstrated your professionalism. We are proud of the unprofessionality you accuse us of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about Mr. Rosenstingl?]] It is true that this EU Presidency is inconvenient. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] – My God, Mr Darabos, my goodness! Are you asking us any questions of opinion?- Oh, my God! That's really funny of you. Let us wait for the election day when it comes to who rules this country in the future: Your BAWAG, your trade union officials, your SPÖ officials, who believe that the country is in their sphere of power, where you can do everything, from post office chess to foundations to Caribbean business – or this coalition, which has shown since 2000, against your resistance, also the European Union, how to conduct a country professionally and how to conduct an EU Presidency professionally. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You need to talk about post chess!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Before this decision, Mr Darabos, you must be afraid – not we! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This our EU Presidency is unagitated, but efficient. It is not easy to put as difficult characters as a Mr Berlusconi or Mr Chirac into a hat, and to make it clear that it is necessary, at European level, to deal with these important issues of labour market policy and employment programmes, that it is not just about making Sunday speeches, but also about making very specific measures, such as increasing funds for research and development. Here too, Austria is exemplary, as you can see right now: Today we have the Elite University on the agenda, and in this context I am very happy and very proud of it – it was also an initiative of our Vice-Chancellor and our science spokesman Bleckmann – that in the course of the creation of this Elite University – you were always against it, against and against it again – we said: Yes, we do, but at the same time we want to increase the resources for research. – € 30 million more for research in the context of the decision for the Elite University, which is also an example for Europe! In the mid-1990s, as a scientist, I still demanded that we reach 2 percent research rate – this was not possible under a SPÖ-led government. Today we are pleased that we are on our way towards 3 percent for research, for the future of the economy and the population here in Austria. You can be proud of that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The debate on future energy policy at this summit is also important in order to see: In Europe, in the European Union, we also want to solve these important issues of energy policy together! These are things that need to be discussed at European level! – For renewable energies, there will be a share of 15 percent in the future, which is good, but – and there, of course, we already have to raise the vote – as a country that thanks to God does not have nuclear power plants, we also have to follow the path that there must be a road map, a roadmap for Europe’s exit from nuclear energy. Above all, criticism must always be expressed when it comes to not expanding unsafe power plants, such as Temelín, in the new member countries of the European Union, but to discussing a closing option. We also promised the Austrians that, when we agreed to enlargement in this area, which is too far-reaching, but yet unthinking, and that is what we must do. And I am convinced that the Federal Government will also remain on this path. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also have to maintain a clear line in the enlargement strategy. In this respect, there is a real praise from international press votes, namely from Turkey. If it is criticised that Austria is here on the brake, that Austria is supporting in its presidency, that political criteria are also applied in the enlargement process with Turkey, and that is to be read as a comment in a Turkish newspaper: "From the point of view of accession to Turkey, however, the Austrian Presidency has so far been missing", we would like to take note of this "debt" because we insist that a country that does not meet the criteria for full membership of the European Union cannot reach this membership, and that we still assume that it would be better to make a partnership for Europe than to negotiate accession with Turkey for 20 years, which will not be possible anyway. There will be a lot to do in this Presidency: discuss the European Constitution, security policy, the Middle East conflict and the Balkans. The first half, I think, was unagitated, but efficient, the second half will also bring the corresponding dynamics.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5847	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e5868	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The key point in the German Chancellor's speech on the Austrian Presidency's balance sheet was: There's still a lot to do! – So if you subtract the flowery self representations, the lohudeling, the soap bubbles and reduce it to the measurable success and to the actually enforced, then little to nothing remains. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: But this is your view!]] They also do not take it very precisely with the facts! If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany speaks of Austria taking a leading position in low unemployment in Europe, he has clearly overlooked the fact that Austria has lost this top priority for a very long time and has seen an extremely worrying development, especially in the case of youth unemployment – and this, in contrast to other European countries, where the trend in unemployment now looks such that it is falling. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes, because she's so high!]] [[Abg. Großruck: If you understand of... what,...!]] Austria is one of the few countries where unemployment continues to rise! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With no word, Mr Bundeskanzler, you also have the self-esteemed goals, with which very high expectations have also been aroused in the Austrian population from your side. In autumn, there was still a big, full-bodied announcement that the anti-atomic policy will be a focus of the Austrian EU Presidency and that there will be an initiative for the European nuclear exodus and also an initiative to the EURATOM Treaty, which for 50 years has set out the completely unfair and anti-competitive promotion of nuclear energy in Europe. – Now I would like to know what has actually been left of this greatly announced goal at the summit in these conclusions! You have not mentioned this with any single word today, and the results are also relevant: There is no concrete result – Europe’s key word nuclear exodus. On the contrary: In the meantime, the Austrian decision, the Presidency, has adapted your policy so much to the Commission's policy that it is no longer possible to distinguish whether it is a nuclear supporter country or a different one. They are very close to the Commission position of Barroso, which is a declared nuclear advocate, and it is significant that you have referred to the opening ceremony of the German Chancellor Merkel, who wants to reverse the German nuclear exodus. That was your reference in your speech! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Sustainable energy policy, competitive, safe energy policy looks very different! You've been talking about new networks today, about security. [[Abg. Grossruck: Are you poorly prepared?]] They have said that at the beginning of this year, the ‘gas dispute’ call has awakened some, including the Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein. [[Abg. Großruck: You are poorly prepared! – Filibuster, this is a filibustery!]] I have to say that was really the last wake-up call you could hear somehow, because this wake-up call is there, I think, for 20 years. The problem of dependence on energy imports, particularly from geopolitically unstable regions, is a problem which, I think, should not be known to the Minister for Economic Affairs since Christmas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The strategy of the Atomic Lobby in Europe was very, very clear and also transparent. You have always covered this with beautiful words in Austria so much that you have said that we do not have to lock up Zwentendorf and have sold it as a success. That's not what it's about right now. At the moment, it is about how the European energy mix will look out, and this energy mix has, in particular, been implemented by the French with a strategy that is not at all refined, but that one should have fought – which you have not done – to sell nuclear energy as a solution to climate protection problems. And it is already in your conclusions of this Council under the cover name “Low Emission Technology” that it is preparing for a fixed nuclear ratio at European level. – The preparation for a fixed atomic ratio under the cover cover “Low Emission Technology”! – In France, nuclear energy is already clearly referred to as a source of renewable energy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a claim!]] With no word you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have mentioned neither the boom of renewable energy sources in Austria nor the opportunity that this area would have offered for the European level, especially the job opportunities that are anchored in this area. [[Abg. Murauer: But you didn't listen to that!]] If you look at this in Germany, you can see that the path prepared by the Greens in 2004 brought 150 000 jobs; this is already 170 000 jobs! It could be 300 000 jobs without problems. In Austria it is similar: In Austria there is a boom – but despite politics, not because of politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Hornek.]] Today, for the first time, more wood heating than oil heating has been installed. But oil heating is still being installed in Austria, even with public funding. Every price increase per barrel is taxed here by households – 250 € this year. This is an energy policy that Bartenstein does not intend to change in the least – and you, Federal Chancellor, as can be seen from your speech, obviously do not. Any additional euro spent on oil and gas will destroy jobs in Austria and the European Union. Instead of attacking this and proposing this strategy of renewable energy sources as a consistent European path, talk here about networks and somehow about security. I don't know what your strategy is. Maybe the new Nabucco gas pipeline from Iran? Whether this is your understanding of security, I don't know, but obviously it is. You didn't mention this with a word today. What hurts us very much is that the great hope that you have aroused in the Austrian population, namely in the area of European nuclear exodus, is that the Austrian Presidency not only was seen as a purely moderating one – in which one wants to look at nowhere and always tries to be very close to the Commission’s position – but was also disappointed once again. The French and the English laugh at this understanding of a presidency, where one resorts exclusively to a diplomatic position and does not even make proposals and initiatives, even if they are controversial. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They laugh at the maximum!]] You have completely slept in this area, and I can only appreciate it so that you simply don't even care about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6061	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6082	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on TV screens! First of all, the first speaker of the major opposition party: I understand that you are not really laughing at the moment, just: The Austrian Parliament does not deserve such a contribution! A destructive talk that is unfailingly geared to negative considerations – that is absolutely essential! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it's right what was recently written in a newspaper, namely: Austria has better! – Although not everywhere, because we have some construction sites, some self-established construction sites that are no longer able to repair even the ARBÖ drivers, it is now one thing, but I think we have it better in many other areas. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In any case, today's policy is better than it was years ago: We have a job, we have a proper government budget and much more what can be seen. We have been making a forward-looking government policy for years, where nothing is left to chance, but it is well prepared. This is the manuscript of Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel and his team! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And this has also led to the success of the EU summit – it is clear everywhere! This style was also recognizable, especially the involvement of the European social partners, the resumption of the President of the European Central Bank – all of this, I believe, can be seen, that is important, and this path has not only led to success, but has shown unity and demonstrated common ground and has thus been approved throughout Europe. That's what Europe needs! Europe needs strength, Europe needs position in world politics and in the world economy! Mr Bundeskanzler, the central issue was work – also in Austria a very important issue, and almost all the speakers in our group have already been concerned about the goal of creating about two million additional jobs. This is an opportunity for many small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in peripheral areas. It creates value added there, which is very important! I believe that this is also crucial because people need work because we have to give them hope and not let them wait until they get a supply somewhere. Above all, the job opportunities for young people must be of central concern to us, and it is clear from the position papers that a particular importance has been attached to this issue. I think that is important because work also creates safety. And if all of this can be achieved, especially in Austria, then, I believe, we will also solve many outstanding problems better – just as we were able to solve the question of the location position in Europe well. If you might give me a moment. Pay your attention to: From 25 states we have the third position here! - It wasn't given to us! This has been worked out hard, with a forward-looking and good policy. The next one is the energy industry. I think that at the turn of the year we were faced with a great crisis, that thanks to God not everyone was perceived, but it was time to act. And the reorientation to reduce dependence, to strengthen self-sufficiency and to make intelligent energy management, I am confident. If it is said that the share of renewable energy should be increased to 15 percent, then of course this is a major requirement. To implement this requires the participation of many, perhaps all of us. The share of biofuels is also to be increased to 8 percent. I think that this is not just a programme for the agricultural sector, but it is a programme for the Austrian economy, indeed for the European economy. This, I believe, is the things that we are to discuss today, as well as rural development. It is not a question of looking at this important subject with only one envy complex. This is about not reducing the funds, but securing the resources as we have succeeded, and thus creating jobs there, and this is important for the whole economy, which is important for the country so that the country lives so that the country flourishes! According to this policy of materiality, which is honest, which is planable, which uses time to shape, people are longing. If Austria is evaluated from outside, then – you could read it recently – says: ‘Austria’s success model: The Alpine Republic will take over the EU Presidency for half a year. The small neighbouring country shows it to all”, how politics and economy can be well coordinated and presented successfully for the people. Thank you, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6144	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr. One, I would remind the honourable Members that we agreed at the Presidential Conference not to call in plenary. I'm saying this on a given occasion. Mr Faul is not in the hall right now, but he has been calling for 4 minutes. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He called BAWAG!]] I just didn't want to interrupt the previous speaker. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6176	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You shouldn't blame us for not praising you too. Mr Bundeskanzler, a good feed user is called someone who eats little and still increases. They are one who has very little success to report and yet is so. I find that admirable how you do it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the second, Mr Bundeskanzler, is the following – I would also like to praise and acknowledge you in a second point: It is indisputable for the Austrian Presidency to carry out the organisation of the Presidency very professionally. We don't argue. And I also believe that the climate you are spreading in the meetings is quite positive, and we do not dispute that either. But what we are fighting is that what you have reported to us here as your project, and what you have reported to us as your result, would have been particularly demanding. Let me present it to two, maybe three Dringen: You yourself – I quote Federal Chancellor Schüssel – say: “The economy is good. If we work hard, we could create two million jobs a year.” Yes, it would be a great story if that were something, just: Do you have to put forth any effort for this, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – The answer is: No, you don't have to work hard at all! This is precisely what the economic researchers are predicting. You have set your goal exactly where it happens anyway, and then say: That was our demanding goal!, and if it should be solved then you say: That's us! – That wasn’t you at all! If it is redeemed, then it was the economic researchers who correctly predicted. You didn't do anything to say anything. [[Abg. Scheibner: The economic researchers create jobs?]] Let me address a second point: You have also said again today, and Mrs Foreign Minister has said in the press hour, and you have said again and again in Brussels last week, that the state does not create jobs, it only creates entrepreneurs. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] - Great! Only: May I ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, who is actually responsible for the things agreed in the Lisbon strategy? Who is that who pays for infrastructure investment? Is that the state or are these the companies? Who is doing this with the roads and with the rails and with the sewerization? Or let me ask you a second question: What about education, which is so important to save Europe's site? Who pays the schools and the teachers? Who's doing this with the universities? [[Abg. Grossruck: The taxpayer!]] Is this all the businessmen or does it make the State with the taxpayers' resources? Mr. Mayor, this is a little cheap! [[Abg. Großruck: And thus the economy again!]] So does it make the state or does it not make the state? – No, it makes the payers the main part of it. You're wrong, too! I'm just asking you: Does the state create jobs – can it or can it not? [[Abg. Rädler: That was the promise of the SPÖ: We create jobs!]] Who will finance basic research if not financed by the State? With regard to application-oriented research, the companies are of course active, yes – but in basic research, please don't tell me that this is funding the private! [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's why we give so much money...!]] – These funds, ladies and gentlemen, can be spent by the state if it spends them. The point is just: They don't want to spend it! The kindergartens have just discovered Mr Bartenstein. Amazing! They have done nothing for six years to increase the number of childcare places. Who pays for childcare places when it comes to their creation? Is that the state or are these the companies? Mr. Federal Chancellor, stay away from us with this ideology! What it's all about is that you act as if it were, and that's exactly what it says in the program inside: No money for all these measures! Businesses should do if they have. Let me say another thing: Support for small and medium-sized Also, Mr. Stumbling has not become tired to say: This government stands for support for small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] – A Schmarr’n, honourable Member, a Schmarr’n! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Lord, that's not what they say!]] The Federal Chancellor said he had invited the employer representative in Europe. He invited industry representatives to Europe, and he specifically told the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises that he was not allowed to participate. – “Great” performance! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You go to the level of Cap, Mr. One!]] The tax reform you have made with your government, Mr. Federal Chancellor, has led to the large companies being given €1.1 billion under the Köst reduction. What have the small companies got when I'm allowed to ask? – You even removed the investment advantage! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: such nonsense!]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Income tax reduction!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think the information you make here can be said with confidence: You didn't do anything! You've been here pretending it's great, and it's like what you're doing in the country. They claim that the number of jobs increases – in fact, they are part-time jobs, and if they are calculated in full-time equivalents, it becomes clear that more has been lost than has been achieved. – Mr Bundeskanzler, this is a poor balance sheet!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6374	In the debate, the Federal Chancellor spoke. He has, like any other, five minutes of speech. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6395	Mr President, this is an interesting question that you raise: Whether what is, what we have done or what we have done – by the way, by the way, that does not dispute anyone – comes automatically or whether this requires concrete action. – Well, of course that requires concrete action! Today, for example, we have been in the ranking – this has also been published this week, and the spokesperson of the ÖVP Group, Spindelegger, has also pointed out – for the first time on the “Stockerl” square – we have for the first time advanced among the best three of the European Union! – and if you think that has been automatic or is the failure of six years of government policy by both of us here and the government groups, I must say: [[pointing to himself as well as to the vice chancellor Gorbach sitting next to him on the government bank]] This is always a beautiful “favorable success ” if you have worked under 27 to the third place forward! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There we were never under your leadership – I say that very, very clearly. Second point: Mr. Dr. Een, you were infrastructural ministers yourself once, if I remember darkly, you know the numbers! [[Oje-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It was very dark!]] So, it's not automatic that we invest twice as much in rail and road today in Austria than at your time! It's not automatic, that's effort – although we kept the budget in order at that time, even though we made the greatest discharge at that time. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Just a small example: It is not automatic that we have business creation records every year, much more entrepreneurs... [[Abg. Dr. One: And the highest unemployment!]] Excuse me: 5 000, 6 000, 7 000 entrepreneurs fail in the year – and we have new creations of 31,000! Do you want to pragmatize every entrepreneur now? – Then we really end up in a kind of economy that can never work like that! Life and birth are much, much greater than the number of those who fail – and that is necessary in a living economy! Be proud with us that we have managed to have founding records that we have relieved the middle class by 1.4 billion! It was not automatically, Mr President, but I would like to express my express support here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or take the topic of research. There was once a research offensive trying to set in motion the Viktor climate and I. The whole thing has only remained lying, unfortunately it has just remained the elan of God. Since 2000, we have been investing – in common with the economy and the state – twice as much as before 2000! If you think that's automatic – with confidence said: That took hard effort! This required two reform dialogues, a complete reorganisation of the research landscape, the establishment of the Institute of Science and Technology – against which you were first, but where you are now thanking God – which I consider very important and out of dispute. But that was not a matter of course! We have the best indirect tax research funding internationally! - Automatic? No, Mr One, that was not automatic, even if you voted against it; this was also noted here. You didn't do anything to the automatic that you claim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another point: the labour market. – Please, it is not automatic that today, although we have a good economy, we spend twice as much on active labour market promotion as in time, as... [[Abg. Dr. One: There are twice as many unemployed!]] Do so many unemployed people double?! - Well, please! Mr President, let us take a look at the figures together, then you will be much closer to reality. [[Abg. Broukal: You are right! There's only 56 percent more!]] We have record employment – I expressly say here – and we actually have an increasing unemployment rate, and we are working to reduce it! We invest 300 million in these days and hope that this will also work! It's not automatic! And with the defeat of everything that has happened here, the situation in Austria will not be better. I say that with best knowledge and conscience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say something about this when you mention the young people: We made a special commissioner with Egon Blum, and Michael Häupl, Mayor of Vienna – I personally have a very, very relaxed and good relationship all these years – has now asked him to have an appointment for a joint discussion with Egon Blum. And I am very much in favour of this, because our child-in-law is, of course, the Vienna labour market. In most other Länder, unemployment is already falling, for young people, please, unemployment is falling by our measures! – It’s not automatic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Deputy One, you would also be well advised – you know that I appreciate you as an intellectual interlocutor and discussr – you would be well advised if you did not enter the pipe of general criticism – everything is bad, everything goes down!, sold’s mei’ G’wand, i’fahr’ in ’heaven! – vote in favour. - That's not true! Austria is well standing, and after this European Council, I believe that Europe is also a lot better if we are serious about what we have decided. - We take it seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6573	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6594	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Cap, as a follow-up speaker, the 5 minutes speaking time at your disposal would have to be far too valuable for you to address. I think your performance today is self-orientated; a few previous speakers have already referred to it. Before I come to Europe, another sentence on Mr Stumpfully. You have said, Mr President, since 2000 it has been uphill with this country, since 2000 the end of debt policy, and since 2000 there have been reforms in that country. – Now I wonder: Which party came to the government in 2000 so uphill that we develop so positively? Which club has made a leading contribution to the fact that after 16 years of black-red or red-black, no matter what one might call it, such a successful policy has taken place? – I can only thank my colleagues and our members of the government: The BZÖ and our club members are proof of quality! - Good. Europe. – The previous speakers have already shown it: [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Europe is an important issue. No question. Polarization speaks for itself: I believe that Europe, on the one hand, is of course important as a peace and economic project and is being questioned by everyone – we all know that we need a counter-policy to Asia, to America, to emerging economic powers, we have to oppose it – and on the other hand, the scepticism among people is great. We are still afraid of Europe, we are afraid of Brussels, we feel fear of centralism among people outside. And I think you have to do both in a dual system: I do not think it is enough simply to remove the successes of Europe that can be seen – in many areas, not in all! – I think we must take this concern and this fear of the people very seriously, and we must also ensure that the issues that concern us every day are dealt with. There have already been some projects and some positive things: The Europe-wide single driving licence system – a new visionary system that really creates uniform framework directives here – was mentioned, a road cost directive was discussed, which could finally be completed after years, and the Federal Chancellor also spoke about the fact that we were able to carry out domestic projects, such as the Brenner Base Tunnel. [[Abg. Oils: What about the fears of dealing with the fears?]] What the Federal Chancellor did not say about it is: What minister did all these important projects bring to the rails? Which Minister and which department have achieved concrete success here? – It was Hubert Gorbach’s place of business, our vice chancellor, and I would like to say thank you at this point. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] Mr Oellinger, we are afraid: The fear of people, I believe, exists because of the overall mood. I believe that the fear has to do with the EU Constitution, which, of course, has to do with the enlargement discussion – Klubobmann Herbert Scheibner has already talked about it – which is afraid to do with budgetary policy, which is one that cannot be tied to a small concrete issue, but the overall mood creates this fear. This overall mood, which we have seen in popular desire, which was held a few weeks ago, is still there, and these 260 000 people who signed must be taken seriously. Although the popular desire for polemics has been pursued, we must take it seriously. These people have gone and signed because that is their concern. I think that's where we're called for. We need to do something. Here we cannot see and wait for fear to continue to rise, the scepticism continues to rise, and at the end of the day an important and good project is threatened by not taking these things seriously. Budgetary policy, a subject that has been discussed very often. – I think you really have to think about this, here you really should find new approaches. Thank God, all the leading representatives are now also talking about alternative financing options. One begins to discuss a foreign speculation tax, at least one tries to renew a system that has been unchanged for decades. There are those who pay more than they get, and there are others who get more money than they do. Here you should really evaluate the overall system, here you should really try to find new approaches, otherwise we will land sometime in a dead end, and people are afraid of this dead end. And if the people in the villages, in the cities, are afraid of the European Union, this is a sign that should be taken seriously, because there is a need for action here. Finally, I should also like to draw up a specific section: the agricultural policy. Agricultural policy is a European policy, an area where policy is being made in Europe. Federal Minister Pröll has completed rural development, presented the Green Pact, where the total volume – Mr Donabauer has referred to it – is certainly cordial – one could secure a lot of money here – but the error lies in detail. The error is very clear here, and there are calculations of various professional representatives that farmers can expect cuts here, that there will be 15 to 20 percent reductions in funding, that in the area of organic farmers, in the area of extensive farms, 30 to 40 percent will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not be possible for agriculture! This will further lead to the fact that we cannot keep the farmers on the farms. This will make us more concerned, and we are certainly also called on here as a professional representative to act particularly on the fact that the system is being covered, that you may get more money in this axis, that you can link up the percentage distribution, that you make a cover. We must look for new approaches here, because I believe – my final sentence, Mr President! – we must fight for every job in this country. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] And it's also an important job on a farm, a job to fight for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6670	The last speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6691	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Spindelegger, claimed that the Federal Chancellor had chosen the right topics for this European Council. However, one of these issues, which would have been important, has kept the Federal Chancellor silent today. One thing he did not discuss at the summit, one he let go without resistance: That at this summit was fixed the first step towards a renaissance of nuclear power. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has kept you silent today, too, that you have unrelentingly agreed to this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are some who will ask: Why was that? – This Council Decision states that there should be a fixed quota for low-emission technologies. Let's see what low-emission technologies there are – oil and gas certainly don't belong to them –: Renewable: Wind, water, sun, biomass. [[Abg. Big truck: hydropower that you want to prevent!]] There's already a fixed quota for that, you don't have to re-enter it. So what's left? - The nuclear power. Mr Bundeskanzler, you also said at the meeting of the main committee last week: Each country has the right to its own energy mix. I know it is in the EU. It's still like that. But in other words, it means: Everyone does what he wants, what he just seems to be important to him. In an article in “Die Zeit”-online a journalist wrote, this own energy mix appears to him as a kind of national sanctuary. – Mr Bundeskanzler! National sanctuaries or sanctuaries at all have really lost nothing in politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does that mean? What does that mean?]] I would have expected something different from an Austrian Presidency in this regard. You have also said before the Presidency how important you will be to the anti-atomic policy, how important you will be, for example, an Euratom exit conference. You said that at the time. And do you know what you could have done back then? – They could have sought allies within the EU, with the other Member States; there are still at least twelve who do not want nuclear power. But where was an initiative in this direction? Have you ever tried to find allies here to say before the summit: No, for a European energy policy, nuclear power is not a line!Unknown term type: "%s".? Has She said: No, we really want to invest renewable energies and there more and a exit from nuclear power, as the red-green federal government in Germany has presented it!? – No, nothing of that has been heard! You just let that happen. Mr. Bundeskanzler, this accusation, also in “Die Zeit”, titled “Energic Lethargic”, you must make this accusation happen. You have not said a word of death about this Renaissance of nuclear power today, and the Austrian population will make it clear to you that this is not the way you should go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: And what is positive from the point of view of the Greens?]] Unfortunately, the small progress made in energy efficiency also fades. It fades behind this first step fixed here in the direction of a renaissance of nuclear power. Other promises have also been made at this Council – but only promises, not concrete steps. 2 million new jobs per year? – What programmes are these? Where's there something concrete? Whether the millions of young people in Europe who need and want jobs to have income, but also to have future prospects, will believe that? - I see a big question mark behind that. This is more than questionable for me in Austria too. Today, the ÖVP has claimed that 9 000 teaching posts have been created. The Ministry of Economic Affairs itself says that in 2005 it was 3 307, with 7 000 Blum promotions: That cost 33.6 million €. So nothing from 9 000 jobs – 3 000 places for apprentices were just there! And 17 000 young people are still waiting for apprenticeships. Where are the concrete initiatives? Of promises, Federal Chancellor, young people will not be satisfied, nor do they have income, nor will they have a life and career perspective that they could get through a job. [[Abg. Amon: Do you have a suggestion?]] One last one. They have recently shivered from the European model of life. Mr. Federal Chancellor, that sounds great. I know you're masters, so to speak, being shivering and working with new concepts. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Our suspicion – our well-founded suspicion! – but it’s about social reduction. And that's what you want to cover up with. Mr. Federal Chancellor, even if you have a beautiful term, those who actually live at the poverty line and in poverty, such as single parents, will not believe it. They won't believe you, and neither will these people be satisfied.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6795	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[10:18:15]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e6816	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7147	Before entering the agenda, I will also announce: According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4078/J by Mr Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the security of the Economic and Financial Area of Austria by means of complete clarification of the ÖGB-BAWAG scandal. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3751/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7169	I also announce that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 3751/AB to Question 3849/J by Mr Parnigoni, colleagues on incredible grants to the security executive by the director of the KHM by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:20:07]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7195	I also announce that the honourable Member is Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber requested that the Health Committee report on Amendment 717/A (E) by Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on national measures to protect against genetically modified organisms be limited to 25. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the proceedings. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7216	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 5, 9 and 10, 11 and 12, 13 to 21 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Mr. Pointner, could you be so kind as not to turn to me your most valued? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7250	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free Parliament Club 108 minutes as well as Green 117 minutes. The House decides on this speaking time. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – That is unanimously decided. [[10:21:50]] 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1316, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code 1975, the Rules of Procedure and the Security Police Act to improve criminal protection against persistent persecution and civil protection against interference in privacy (Anti-Stalking Act) Government template (1325 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Criminal Code, and the Government template (1326, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedures Code 1975 (1383, e.g.) 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1301, e.g._Other Organiser Second Protocol on the basis of Art. K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities and Declarations (1384, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1064, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements on cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the fight against fraud and other illegal acts affecting their financial interests, including final acts and agreements (1385, e.g.) 4. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1348, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of a Protocol on the Protocol to the Protocol on the Protocol on the Protocol on the Protocol on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the European Communities, 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1347, e.g._Other Organiser ==References== January 1998, the extradition agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Agreements signed between the European Union and the United States of America on extradition (1387, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7347	We now come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Weinzinger. Your welcome time is 8 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7374	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think it is extremely important and extremely important that Austria has an effective anti-talking law – but unfortunately this is not the case now. The law we have today is a law that has at best remained in half the way, at least it does not correspond to the four-party resolution that this House has addressed to the government, which called for effective protection of stalking victims. What can be read from this bill, and even more about the process, as it has so far come to this bill, is that the attempt to create an effective anti-talking law is a little lacking in seriousness and that, at the end of the day, only second-class protection is granted in an area where the vast majority of those affected are women, unlike other areas where the criminal code enters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The process of this lawmaking is characterized by things that – and you would like to call it almost that – remind of slutting, and of refusal of cooperation within the government. Let me also justify these accusations. First of all, after a long preparation phase, after long mouths about mysterious working groups in the ministry, where one did not know exactly what they were working on, there was a draft that was under review, in which the Ministry of Finance said only in the last minute: Hoppala, certainly not, we're putting in a veto, because that doesn't contain a cost assessment! Now, on the one hand, I wonder why this was not just attached to the law, but on the other hand I also wonder what the Minister of Finance has done all the time before, until he comes up with a lack of cost assessment. It then took a long time for a vague cost assessment to be carried out, whose intention was essentially, I think, a reluctance, according to the motto: It won't cost much! Interestingly, violence protection for women should not cost much – in contrast to other areas that are important to you, where you drive in with razzia with full calibre; the money does not matter. It should also be the case that crime will be effectively combated. In the area of violence, where the main victims are women, the costs are very likely to play a role for this government. I mean, it shouldn't be like that! Finally, Minister Gastinger then presented a bill, but at the last minute the Ministry of the Interior crossed and said: You can do that, but not with us! This is nothing for us as a police force, we do not provide personnel, no resources, so that this law can be effectively implemented! What is this supposed to be for a criminal legislation, which, in fact, also urgently requires a security police regime to be effective where the police and the Interior say: But this should be done without us!? – That’s what you’re saying to women, that’s your message! When it comes to violence against women – and stalking is essentially a form of violence against women – you say that does not matter much. Let me summarise the points of criticism: Stalking occurs in a variety of forms aimed at making a very unwanted contact with the victim. Whether this contact about commuting in front of the door, at the workplace, over permanent phone calls, text messages, e-mails and so on does little to the end. It is about unwanted contact, which becomes a form of psychoterrorism and in which, as we know from studies, serious health and psychological consequences have to be counted as a consequence. What would be necessary is to enter immediately in such a case and impose a ban on contact. The only effective means – and this is also known from international experience – is that the police can impose an immediate ban on contact and, for example, cause a direction. We have the best experience in the field of the right of designation. But what is particularly lacking in this bill? - Any form of a contact ban! They stop the immediate intervention of the police and once send the victims on the laborious way to the courts. Whoever is a stalking sacrifice, may first go to court and make a preliminary order there. That means in the clear text: It takes a long time to make it easier for people who are, in some way, legally migrated or who can afford to have a lawyer who usually have a certain level of education, to trust it and not to be afraid of the legal authorities. All the others who cannot go this laborious path will not be protected from stalking because you do not provide that in your law. I think that's a blamble thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also noticeable that there was a lot of criticism of the government template in the assessment, also from the city of Vienna, where experience has already been gained regarding anti-talking. But what was your reaction to it? – The law has been further watered down; instead of improving it, instead of supplementing urgent, important things, you have watered down the provisions once again. They say: With all the stalking forms, so to speak, which are carried out via telecommunications, there is no longer an official offence, but only one application offence! – In contrast to your own government template, Mrs. Minister! In the beginning, they thought it was important to anchor an official offence. But now you are even further weakening the situation and the starting position of the victims. This is the result of the reviews that you have reaped criticism. I wonder if this does not also have to do with a certain form of harmonizing, as we also know it from speakers of the interior resort, who have been told via the media salopp: You can't put someone in jail because he sends roses! – Excuse me, if he maybe sends roses daily and it is decidedly unwelcome if it is psychoterrorous to send roses, then that must of course be diagnosed! You think that's a cavalier's spirit. You're making a cavalier crime out of a violent act! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, in total, you can read that you are actually advocating the intrusion of stalking, because you are not treating it seriously and not seriously in the law and because it is obviously enough for you to have submitted the name according to an anti-talking law. The same pattern can be found in the accompanying novel of environmental criminal law, where you interpret the Europe Convention very economically and by far do not exploit what the Convention allowed, and wherever it is enough for you to change the name according to environmental criminal law. You think it's enough to do things by name – we think it's essential to do things right, serious and serious to the content. I can therefore only say to you: Your work and your templates are not enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7475	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Your preferred speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7496	Mr President. Mrs Gastinger, Minister of State! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on the issue of anti-talking from practice – and not quote the course of the law. I can begin with an example today; I was authorized by a person to explain it here today. About a month ago, I received a call from the advisory office, where a teacher described the following: She has received calls again and again since November – but the caller has not reported it. She'd become a little scared and scared. And then it was like someone around her family with her name entered the Internet – whether that was an idea or a real coincidence, was put there. In any case, a page in the erotic area with its name was then visible, with its telephone number. It was a photo montage. She said: I've been fixed and finished, I've believed, I've been raped. - That's how she felt as a woman. She first believed that it was a joke of youthful students, and indicated it to the Gendarmerie – it was persecuted and found that an ex-partner with whom she had a relationship that had been put on the Internet six years ago. Meanwhile she is married again, is also retired, but this ex-partner is at the same school as she is. She has explained that she has fallen from all the clouds because she and her ex-partner have met quite normally during this time, friendly appearance, no problem. – And then she learns. This school is in a small community. You can imagine that she didn't trust herself in this school anymore. The school authority did not respond immediately either. This woman reported that, the director has led all steps in the way, but she couldn't tell me until yesterday whether this colleague has been suspended or not. Lawyers told me it would have to be, but it wasn't clear yet. In our conversation, they and I have worked out that their protection is in any case a priority. She went to the hospital and started a psychotherapy. Thank God also supports the family, namely her husband, she very much – that is not the case with all the victims. This teacher turned to me because she's been with me before, because of mumbing. And now I come to the comparison: I think stalking is very similar to mobbing. It's about psychoterrorism, it's about harassous behavior, and in this sense it's about stalking about persistence – it's about mobbing that you're talking about bullying over a certain period of time. The essential thing is that the person concerned is really limited in their living conditions. This leads to health damage, sick people et cetera, which, in addition to personal suffering, ultimately also leads to high economic costs. That is why I am very glad that the Federal Government, under Chancellor Schüssel and the ministers Gastinger and Prokop, had the courage to present this law to us for decision-making. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner.]] We are moving in this area to new land. It is very much about feelings and feelings, and providing evidence in this area is not always easy. A committee was set up to evaluate the effectiveness of this law, Mr Weinzinger, in order to make the necessary adjustments in the light of new findings. I am also grateful for this step of greater justice for those concerned as a consultant – one often feels out of control.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7569	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7593	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mrs Gastinger! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If a rose sends, you can't lock it up for a year! – This is the significant pregnancies found by the Ministry of the Interior on the subject of Stalking this year. I think it was at the beginning of the year, namely in January, when the woman minister – in this case I have to say so – tried to put an anti-talking law in Austria on behalf of the National Council. Mrs. Weinzinger has already pointed out that it was a four-party resolution and call for the Minister of State to submit a law to the National Council. So: If a rose sends, you can't lock it up for a year! If one sends roses, one will actually not lock him up for a year, but, Mrs. Minister, one will be pleased if the one who sends the roses is the one who is also happy about – that is crucial! I do not value roses of people who want to hurt me through the gift of roses – you certainly not, Mrs. Minister – and not even if they are not even roses every day! The roses are now almost just a term that shows what is undesirable: permanent replication, permanent unwanted contact, whether in the form of roses or in other form, such as by SMS, phone terror or terror, as Colleague Riener described him, or also through the physical in-the-neighbour come, the pre-door stone, the pavement at the tram or the movement at the workplace or somewhere in the vicinity and in visual contact. If this permanent replication and this unwanted contact are there, then the stalking, ladies and gentlemen, is like psychoterrorism, and that should and will be punishable in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why are you against it?]] I am still very much with the Minister, even with Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, that is what I am still with you. The question is only, Mrs Minister: How does a affected person come – now I take this negatively into account, men can also happen that they get roses too often, but such cases are not really known to me – to the effect that if you want to – and this is the case in criminal law – you also offer protection? And this is where my criticism point is, which I repeat here again, and once again Klubobmann Scheibner also wants to bring to attention, so that he understands why the Greens are not satisfied with this anti-talking law, as is now laid down in the Criminal Code. The reason for this is, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, that it is not possible for victims – usually female victims – at the speed of preventing health damage to achieve action against it. This is the point of the whole story! If someone is so severely affected that it's a body injury and so you take health damage, then you basically don't need stalking regulations. Stalking is intended to prevent someone from harming his health, for example, that a woman is nervous by psychoterrorism, as Mrs Riener described it, so that she is no longer able to work. To ensure that this protection is guaranteed, however, ladies and gentlemen, it will not come in Austria, because in Austria the Ministry of the Interior considers: If a rose sends, you can't lock it up for a year! If such a thing comes from the mouth or from the APA ticker or from the typewriter or from the computer of the interior resort, I wonder how potential stalking victims in Austria can develop confidence in the executive, namely that the executive then enters to protect them before they are sick and fixed and finished. – That’s what we don’t like about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely the point that there is no possibility or obligation for the immediate intervention of the police that would result in the necessary protection and that criminal law provisions also work. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] That's the point! If this procedure is so that you first make an advertisement, go to the police and tell it in some way, long and broad and then have to make a preliminary order – you have to convince the judge or judge that this is a behavior harmful to health and well-being – then it will not be targeting. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you read the law?]] Only sometime, if this is already an incredibly long process, where you are almost fixed and finished anyway, may the police be able to intervene to protect the victims. This is not anti-talking law and effective protection of victims from stalking, as we imagine him! That is why, Mrs Minister, we reject the StGB provisions, because the corresponding implementation in the Security Police Act, which then promises to be really efficient and direct help...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7666	Excuse me, Mrs. Reder. – May I remind the people of the television cameras not to film in the documents of Members. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7687	Thank you, Mr President. – I am already at the end of my remarks. Ladies and gentlemen may now have understood that there is a difference between, so to speak, the year of election, which reads as follows: We have adopted an anti-talking law, and the specific need for protection of the individual victims, who may now believe, to be protected. I cannot say it exactly in terms of numbers, but 90 percent of cases are certainly confronted with stalking in the immediate, that is, closer family or former family environment. The most common case of Stalking occurs within partners or ex-partners, i.e. by people who have known or known each other who have had a close relationship with each other, as described by Mrs Riener. Just the late intervention of the police and the long and long-lasting process of victims in order to get protection from state agencies are the reasons why we are not satisfied with this anti-talking law, which we reject as insufficient. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the environmental penalties. Yes, each state has the opportunity to implement conventions, directives, so to speak, into national law, as is the scope allowed by the Convention. With these new provisions in the Criminal Code, Austria has Cases are very precise. However, the international standards that would allow Austria to develop and to adopt more stringent, more concrete provisions, namely those which are particularly affected by environmental practices – now I say a little salopp – in the field of business and business, were, of course, interpreted from the scope in such a way that they hurt as little as possible. When it comes to risking the population by gross, very arbitrary and grossly negligent environmental damage, the scope should now also be as narrow as possible in the sense of health and well-being of the population. But this is not to be expected by this government. That's why I'm hoping for the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7744	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7766	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The example of the roses, which has been mentioned several times here, distorts the look at what this is actually about. Therefore, as I mean, perhaps at the beginning one has to stress again: It's a lot more. It's about massive follow-up. Actually, it is always a kind of advance in many of the cases where we are then confronted with violence. It is a law of protection which actually begins at a time when we are constantly reading in the media about such cases, where then the individual, the individual, goes to the police and says: I feel threatened! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how you do if your daughter, should you have one when she comes home, says that when she gets out of the tram and goes home, ten meters after her, someone goes after her – not even, not twice, but that happens all the time. I don't know if you, ladies and gentlemen, would say: Well, that doesn't matter, it's a little thing, these are roses that you're going to be given! In that respect, you must say, Mrs. Minister: Although I congratulate you on having this law here at all, it is a social democratic proposal, it had its birth time in the Vienna Council, so it was of course not easy for you to enforce it here against your coalition partner ÖVP, so I congratulate you in so far, but it is unfortunately here God's Federal Chancellor and unfortunately also the woman's Interior Minister succeeded, which I find very sad, actually all that is still meaningful in a law of violence – for it is nothing else, it also means: Protection from persistent persecution – it would have belonged to taking out again and saying: Well, we don't use the police there! Take care of it yourself! If someone is persecuted, first he should go to court and make an application there! Then he'll have a decision on this! With this he can then go to the police, and then perhaps there will be a legal protection here! – Ladies and gentlemen, you all know how long this takes. You could've done a lot of that. The government of Schüssel once again shows how to make a lot of little. The fact that, especially in the case of a matter which is subject to personality law, self-determination, protection from violence, it is precisely during the time of the EU Presidency of Austria that we are dealing with it in such a way that it is It is very embarrassing to say that there is no way of acting in accordance with European standards. This is what I would like to write to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here. Examples have also been mentioned. We also have other examples, such as that example, where the divorced, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, also discussed it in committee, referred an apartment to that of his exgatin, put himself there, arranged a camera, set up a campaigner and lived there. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Is that all right? Is that what we want? Is that really what it is? Or should there be an appropriate protection? – We say: This protection is necessary! Therefore, it was also true that an initiative was launched in the Vienna municipal council under the councillor Brauner, three years ago, whose results we jointly – and this must also be said – have been included in a resolution in the judicial committee, which we have said: We, all the parties in the Committee on Justice, want an improvement! We also called for an amendment to the Security Police Act. That means: The executive should also be able to intervene in case an individual is in need and turns to it. I think it is really shocking, ladies and gentlemen, that just a woman, the Minister of the Interior, was the one who, when this law took his way and a rather ambitious presentation was sent by the Minister of Justice, then suddenly blocked and explained: Well, do we really need that? Do we need this protection? And the one who was their speaker back then brought the story of the roses. I would like to ask you: If a woman, for example your daughter, should You have one when she goes home in the dark, ten steps behind her someone goes after her again and again, can you really understand it as "give someone roses", ladies and gentlemen? If I look at who that was, I can find out: It was the current Head of Communications of the Federal Government, Mr Rauch. If this is your attitude to deal with the people of the country, and the one who has such a cynical approach to the protection of our children and women, now the spokesman of the government, ladies and gentlemen, then we can imagine what can really be held by German Chancellor Schüssel! I should like to speak briefly about a number of other legislative instruments which are being adopted today and which we also support. We think the privilege is that in the future the dangerous threat will continue to be punishable on its own, even if it is pronounced by relatives, for good reason. There must be no difference whether a person is threatened by an outsider, by a spouse, or by another relative. We don't want violence, no matter who they are. There is now also a change in the need for marriage and, above all, also in the misuse of authority. Unfortunately, it is God’s way that we must repeatedly observe that abuses of authority, sexual offences against young people, and children are not so rarely done by pastoral caregivers. That is why I also thank you here for the willingness of the Federal Government to expressly include these pastoral caregivers in the criminal provision. In this respect, we will, after we have also played a significant part in sending this law on the way to that. I understand the objections of the Greens, I would have liked more. I can say, Mrs Bundesminister: The fact that you do this to the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Interior I really congratulate you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7832	Now, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking to us – 5 minutes of welcome time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7853	Ladies and gentlemen! I still respect Mr Jarolim's factual statements, which were quite critical – it was surprising that they were factual. [[Abg. Shyker: Surprising!]] But to the Greens I must say: You always pretend you'd act so crazy for the women. But in this case, just because you do not fit some of the points of this law, you simply do not agree and would actually be in favour of us continuing without anti-talking law. – So this is really very contradictory. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Weinzinger and Mrs Stoisits, it is really all that you have said on the hair! They distort the real conditions. They claim that there would have been a mysterious working group in the Ministry of Justice. - She wasn't a mystery at all. The Minister has repeatedly said that we are only talking about the anti-talking law when the working group has come to a decision. They claim that the seriousness is missing. - Not at all! The Minister has repeatedly explained how important she is. I do not know how many socialist Justice Ministers or those who can be assigned to you have taken up this issue. Stalking has been around for decades, but no socialist Justice Minister or Interior Minister has ever taken care of it. Mrs Gastinger has done it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They claim that for women there would be only a protection of second class. – Completely absurd! They're just saying the police aren't doing this at all. So I'd be They really ask not to be insecure, but at least to stick to the truth! If there are violent practices, we already have the right to lead. For ten days, the culprit must stay away from the apartment. If a permanent direction is to be achieved, you go to court. Someone's getting a interlocutory order. I've never heard that there are problems with the time when the dishes are too sumptuous, but that works. It will also work to prohibit contact. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Green MEPs are pretending that there can be no intervention at all if roses are sent permanently or there are telephone calls or the nuisance by text messages. – That’s not true at all, but you go to court. Stalking assumes that there is a persistent, that is, permanent harassment. Stalking is not given in case of one-off harassment, but in case of multiple times. Now someone is being terrorized four times by phone. On the fifth day, the woman – mostly women – goes to court and requests a preliminary order. She just needs to make believing that she's being terrorized, and that's enough. There is virtually no consultation of the opponent. Then the woman is already under the protection of the executive. It's quite up to the hair if you say women don't have protection through this law, but – quite the contrary! – the law will help many women, but also men who are being set up, the executive will intervene, the courts will work quickly. The Minister will guarantee this. The procedure is not such that it can be extended. I wonder why, Mr Jarolim, you, too, say that there will be a long-term process on all the issues that I can confirm to you today. – That’s not true at all! An interim order is not a lengthy process, but is simply a very quick measure that allows the court to respond. I would like to mention some of the points that Mr Jarolim has already made, but which appear to me to be very important, which are covered by the anti-talking provisions. Firstly, it is an important issue, namely genital mutilation. So far, there have also been the normal limitation periods for this offence. Now the limitation period begins only when the victim is of full age. This has made an essential step in order to be able to take judicial action even after a lengthy trial and after the victims have been silent for a long time and to lead to a punishment of the perpetrator. The forced marriage and the related need have already been tailor-made. Now the need is no longer privileged; the family was privileged when it was needed, that is, lower criminal frameworks and so on. There is no longer any such thing, but if a woman – mostly women – is forced to marry, this is the criminal record of the need. It is very important that in the face of a dangerous threat, the empowerment, i.e. the issue of empowerment, is removed. We, in my capacity as judge, have experienced it all the time: On Friday the women were beaten and went to court, paid the man ad. On Monday, they were back there – the man was back in a row and reconciled them – and withdrew the empowerment. This has always been the case, but the men have never been punished. I think that's very, very important. Women may not go to court so quickly or not so often, but once they go to court, they must also expect that the man who beat them will also be held responsible. As I said, The whole of the provisions we decide today are influenced by the fact that we really want to avoid any pressure on other people and any use of violence. I am convinced that the anti-talking provision, even if the Greens do not vote in favour, will develop very much for the benefit of all, especially women.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7903	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7924	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two comments on the present package of legislation. Anti-talking law: I believe that, contrary to what we have heard from the Green Group, it is an effective law, an effective law that has been overdue for a long time, because the terrorisation of individuals by not saying a dangerous threat, but so close that it lies in the air, has always existed and exists. This has been reinforced and better possible in recent years by the communication forms SMS, e-mail et cetera. I recall the example that Mrs Riener brought with the Internet, where it was about ordering almost using personal data. This was either not to be known at all or the person concerned had to follow the laborious civil law path. Now the legislator is going to produce and puts all of these things under a considerable penalty, that is, up to a year of imprisonment. But it is not only about the threat of punishment alone – especially when it comes to the action of people who often act out of a mental extreme and special situation – but also about the possibility of effective intervention. What we are presenting here today is at the same time a change in the order of execution, so that all the things you have requested – the prohibition of contacting, residence bans, the prohibition of data sharing and so on – can be immediately expressed with intervening orders. I think this is a legally clean and effective process. The colleagues from the Greens and Mr. Mr. Jarolim must already be asked why in recent years, in the context of improvements in the Security Police Act and in the Criminal Procedure Order, you have not been included by your side because it is alleged that the police state has been encouraged, and you now want to get all these measures that we are taking today into the area of the security police. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Oils: Well, please!]] This is a contradiction in your judicial policy, which you must explain to us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, I should like to thank the Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the protection of victims – this one was mentioned by my previous speaker, Partik-Pablé. I think it is important and right that Austria, with the ban on the need for forced marriage, with the abolition of the exception of the privilege of the dangerous threat in the family circle – now it is becoming an official offence – as well as the extension of the limitation in the barbaric crime of genital mutilation, sends clear signals to pursue these things in Austria. I believe it is necessary that, in a debate between cultures, Austria, too, a clear signal should be given that, if necessary, the dignity of the person and the inviolability of the person will also be defended by means of criminal law for everyone and anyone who is in Austria. Overall, I think, this is a further progress in a number of important judicial reforms in recent years to raise legal certainty and protect the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e7986	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8008	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Tancsits, not all that is deficient, is a comparison. If you are talking about contradiction, I would like to point out another contradiction. On the one hand, Mrs. Riener brings a really tragic example where a woman is harassed via the Internet via email. Mr Tancsits, too, says that because of the new technologies, stalking has become more important about what we need to look after and to do something about it. At the same time, you do exactly in the area of exceptions, which means that it needs the interlocutory order again and the police cannot act on their own. In my opinion, this is a contradiction that has once been clarified! But the anti-talking law is a law that goes in the right direction. It's a first step. To remember: The starting point is that, according to a study in Vienna, every fifth woman becomes the victim of a stalker. Of all stalking victims, 80 percent are women. That means that it is urgently necessary to protect these women, and we need a right to be left alone. That's right now, and that's basically good that way. This law was introduced under Mrs Gastinger's Minister, but if we look at the chronology of law enforcement, then we can see that there is not this law because Mrs Gastinger is responsible, but although she is responsible, and only because there has been active support for SPÖ. You can still question that so often. The law would not exist if the SPÖ had not pushed on it so much and, above all, had done the preparatory work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we did it!]] In November 2003, at the initiative of the then Vienna Women's City Councillor Mag. Renate Brauner gave a conference on psychoterrorism. At that time, it was the first time in Austria to be placed on the political and public agenda, and then already experiences were exchanged and solutions were discussed. In July 2004, the current Vienna Women's City Councillor Mag. Sonja Wehsely at a press conference with the experts outlines a possible roadmap and a strategy on how this law could be implemented. It followed a unanimous municipal council decision at Vienna level in September 2004 – which was also done on the basis of the SPÖ initiative – in which the federal legislation was requested to take action. Then followed resolutions in the rural days of Lower Austria, Styria, Upper Austria, the Grazer Gemeinderat, the Linzer Gemeinderat and so on. This has always been done on the initiative of the SPÖ, and – and this must be mentioned positively – all the political groups have voted in favour. At the federal level, the SPÖ women were also under the chairmanship of President Mag. Barbara Prammer in preparation for the preparation of an anti-talking law. Among other things, a national campaign was launched in 2004 under the motto “self-determined life: Without violence!", the main requirement at that time was the introduction of an anti-talking law. ==References== On March 1, 2005, Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, with Dr. Jarolim and the green ladies Stoisits and Weinzinger, made a request on effective legal and other measures against stalking. At that time, ÖVP and FPÖ have already signaled that they could go along. Unfortunately, they did not go along with this request, they could not jump over their own shadows: a classic example of how party politics is taking place at ÖVP and FPÖ, just because the proposal came from another party and was working against the interests of those concerned. Finally, it is in the judicial committee meeting of the 19th century. An amended proposal was adopted on 4 April 2005 with all the votes of all the political groups. Although the request was not as optimal – it was, as you say, a rather soft request – and was not as far as the request we had made before, but we – contrary to how you always act – were just too important to insist on our status quo. Better a small step and a start than nothing at all. – That was our foreign exchange, and there was also a plan in the Committee at that time that the anti-talking law should enter into force by January 2006. In October 2005, a draft law was passed by the Minister of Justice, who was very weak. This has also been expressed in numerous opinions. He should have gone through the Council of Ministers in January 2006. Then the Ministry of the Interior has crossed, and also – not to mention – the Ministry of Finance. This has, at one time, doubted the financial viability and so on. All in all, this was not a professional procedure of the Minister of Justice. After many obstacles, a law is now being passed which is not quite the way we originally proposed it, but it is a first step and that is very important. I think the NGOs, the experts, experts working with those concerned, can live by this law. That's important. That is why we agree today. However, we must look at all cases of how this affects those concerned and then act quickly if necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8071	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8121	Madam President. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! Mrs Stadlbauer, you are acting as if the SPÖ itself had not been in the government before the year 2000! They had a women's minister, Mrs Mag. Prammer, and that's why I'm asking you: Why didn't you already implement this law then? Thank God there is now a BZÖ-ÖVP government, which has taken up and implemented this problem actively. Nor do we want to address and resolve problems that are presented. I would just like to remind you that last year, together with representatives of the SPÖ, we held a survey on the International Women's Day, in which we discussed this issue together, which is now being discussed in this bill. Mrs Weinzinger, Mrs Stoisits, you have always put your flags on making policy for women and making it your priority. And precisely when it comes to implementing measures when it comes to concrete action, you are not involved and say: No, we're not! We don't! Our foreign policy is not to lament, not to speak hot air, but to act effectively when it comes to improving the situation of women. They are primarily women who are affected by stalking. More than 80 percent of those affected are women, but of course men can also be stolen, and it is important for them to have access to precisely these possibilities that are now in place in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, with this anti-talking law, the clear signal is that we do not want any violence, especially against women, that we do not accept it. With this law, women for the first time have the opportunity to defend themselves if, for example, the ex-husband stands constantly at the door and listens, not physically suppressed, but through constant persecution, exercise psychoterrorism, which can lead to the triggering of a disease. So far, one has only been able to intervene when something really happened, has been attacked daily, or when the victim has an actual mental illness. So far, women have always had to cope with the fact that this situation has been ridiculed, they have been impoverished and they have been pointed out: That's private business, you have to deal with it yourself! The new anti-talking law allows the woman to call the police in the present case, which I have just described, and the stalker has to answer in court and in front of the police and can receive up to a year of imprisonment. It is also essential that this law provides that stalking victims are actively supported in their acute situation and that they have the opportunity to experience a psychosocial legal accompaniment through intervention agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to join a statement by the chairman of the Association Autonomous Austrian Women's Houses, which must have to do with the fates of women every day and thank the Minister of Justice Karin Gastinger for saying: Karin Gastinger is the first Minister of Justice to work so actively for a law that will help women in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8183	It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Gastinger to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8204	Madam President. Dear colleague of the government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to follow up on what Mrs Achleitner said: Especially when we legislate in this anti-talking law, we have worked very closely with the crisis intervention agencies, whether with the women's houses or the crisis intervention agencies of the city of Vienna. I can only say that this draft has taken place in close coordination with these bodies and that these bodies have informed me that this is a very important step in terms of victim protection and that these crisis intervention agencies are very satisfied with this bill. The next thing I wanted to tell you is the following: When we look at the European comparison of the Stalking rules, we see that there are these in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden and Belgium. These are the only four countries in Europe that have an anti-talking rule. In Germany, for four years already under Red-Green, an anti-talking rule was attempted. That didn't work out. It is still in the government program in Germany, but there is no anti-talking rule there until now. We have been able to implement a draft anti-talking regulation within a period of six months, as Mrs Stadlbauer has specifically stated here, which provides for a comprehensive approach to the protection of victims. I think that's a good solution. What You must not forget either that this was an area not covered by the government programme of this government, but that it was an additional project that we very much liked to carry out in order to protect the victims who, as you correctly have done, are women. If I listen to the speeches by Mrs Weinzinger and Mrs Stoisits, but also partly by Mr Jarolim and Mrs Stadlbauer, I would like to say that: We have provided for an official offence here! We have here provided for a new crime, where the police, when someone calls or when you, Mrs Stadlbauer, call and say: I'm being stolen! There's a man back in front of my door! It's an official crime. If you show, you have a body injury, you've just been beaten, then the police must also come. [[Abg. Stadlbauer: But it does not apply in all cases!]] That's right. It does not apply in the area where you have to deal with Internet or telephone and other contact. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me how the police are supposed to act if the stalking goes over the Internet! Please tell me! We have dealt very intensively with this. We have chosen the way – and I think that is a good one – that we have said that is an application offence. This means that the victim must collect these documents, especially as regards this sensitive area with telephone, text messages, internet and the like, because it must be a persistent persecution – that is, over a certain period of time with a certain intensity – and submit a request to the prosecutor's office. Then, of course, the police step back in. In addition, we have installed a victim protection. We have provided that all victims of the stalking that go to court have the opportunity to receive legal and psychosocial support at the expense of the Ministry of Justice. That must not be unspeakable either! You're pretending to be impoverished by the stalking! It shook me the most! I am sure that I am someone who knows this from stories of victims, as Mrs Riener has already said. I know it by a man who was shot. It hits men as well as women. I know how bad it is. And we have now managed to establish in our criminal code, in a criminal code that reflects exactly our catalogue of values, that we will not tolerate psychological violence against people in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is now a criminal record that provides for imprisonment for up to a year. You must imagine: up to a year because of psychoterrorism! We have also provided that there is not only the possibility for victims to start criminal proceedings, but also to impose a ban on contact with this interim order. I am not willing to say here that I personally would also wish that there would be a regulation under the Security Police Act similar to the Law on Violence. I wish I had. But I also tell you quite honestly – and therefore I am also pleased that SPÖ's speeches are going in this direction: I prefer it, I have what I have – that is really sophisticated and thought through what was possible – as nothing at all. I'll tell you that honestly. I do not intend to go the way that Germany has gone with red-green, namely to have nothing, because there has been no agreement. But that's where it is. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I want to have an anti-talking law, of which the intervention agencies also confirm to me that this is an important, right law. We have also - and you know that - provided that the High National Council will adopt a resolution which will evaluate this law, and where, in practice, the need for improvement should arise in one direction or another, one can certainly also be re-adjusted. I hope, anyway, that this law will take effect. I can only ask all victims of Stalking to contact the crisis intervention agencies and accept support. You don't have to be afraid of costs. We have also made sure that this is not a law for rich stalking victims, but for all stalking victims, because we have also provided psychosocial and legal support. If you're being stolen, I can only recommend one thing: Collect the evidence, then this law will become truly gripping! We are really moving here in a peripheral area – so it was so difficult to determine the state of the matter – where it is very important to collect the evidence. I believe that by this law we are taking a very important and right step towards protecting the victims of stalking, i.e. psychoviolence, and I am therefore very glad that we will decide today in the National Council. Other areas: It is gratifying that we have also been able to convert the dangerous threat in the family sector into an official offence. The area of genital mutilation is also very important. We have been able to make real progress across Europe, because there are very few countries in Europe that are as far as the legal framework as Austria is, particularly in the area of traditional violence, and especially in the area of genital mutilation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8268	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8289	Madam President. Estimated ministers! High house! The fact that the criminal code now includes a new criminal record, namely the persistent persecution, at last gives the parties concerned the certainty of being protected by law. It is indeed a good way, as we have just heard from Mrs Gastinger, who is being taken here. The anti-talking law is expected to enter into force this year, with 1. July. The term “stalking ” comes from the hunter’s language and means as much as“ panging at a prey ”; we say “wild people. ” Stalkers are indeed wild because they suffer from personality disorders and have a low sense of self - worth. Although Stalker is more likely to be classified as ill, the persecuted must be protected by law. Australian scientists divide the stalkers into five categories. On the one hand, it is ex-partner – that is the largest group – and on the other hand close relatives or friends who want to force reconciliation through a targeted persecution. There are also those stalkers who are in love with their victims and who, through persistent persecution, try to establish an intimate relationship. This group usually has mental disorders. There are stalkers trying to get a meeting with people they're not in love with. This group tends to self-esteem and is narratively concerned. For these stalkers it is not understandable why their victims meet with rejection. Anxious stalkers spread fear and horror through harassment. Often professional groups such as lawyers, doctors or teachers are persecuted by them because they believe they have harmed them. These stalkers belong to the category of paranoids. The last category includes persecutors who have set themselves the goal of attacking their victims on a daily basis. People affected are usually persecuted for weeks and months. Rape occurs frequently in this group. These stalkers always try to keep control, and tend to be too violent. Unfortunately, the impact of stalking on those concerned is considerable. We have already heard a lot about it; the example of Mrs Riener was really impressive. Two thirds of the victims are plagued by sleep disorders and nightmares. Nearly 10 percent report fear during the persecution down to panic-like conditions. This law finally ensures that stalking victims are not left alone and that they can also receive professional assistance through proven victim protection facilities. It is therefore incomprehensible and incomprehensible and a pity that the Greens do not go here.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8337	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8359	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That today this law against stalking can be passed, like, literally, a serious birth. In Parliament’s correspondence this is described a little bit more beautifully, as it says that the law “has finally found strong public attention. ” This anti-talking law has long been demanded by SPÖ. In particular, however, the Ministry of Finance and the Interior has granted themselves with hands and feet against this law against psychoterrorism, and at the pressure of the opposition and the public the government finally had to admit. This draft law goes in the right direction, but it is not what we imagine under effective, strong and effective protection. The main criticism is that stalking is not an official offence by means of means of communication, but can only be persecuted at the victim's request, which also weakens the victim's position. There is also a lack of effective protection for the persons concerned. That means that a change in the Security Police Act after the example of the right of way would be necessary. Without this police emergency protection, it is very difficult to defend itself effectively and cost-effectively without legal assistance from stalkers. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] During the women's emergency call of the city of Vienna, every tenth caller seeking help is victims of Stalking. Overall – we have already heard it – 80 percent of the victims are women and 90 percent of the perpetrators are men. 60 to 70 percent of the victims know the perpetrators. 80 percent of female stalking victims are stolen by their ex-partner and have already experienced violence in their relationship. 70 percent of the stalking victims are so heavily affected that in their further personal life, they are also restricted in their lifestyles, i.e., they avoid social contacts, they change residence very often, often also need to change the workplace or lose it and have problems in a new relationship. I think these figures illustrate the urgent need for action on this issue. That is why I can only say that my group agrees with this law, even if we are not fully satisfied with it. Ms. Minister Gastinger also admitted that there was a better variant – this better variant we are obliged to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8447	That of Mrs Magist. The amendment tabled by cup is properly filed, is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8530	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8554	Madam President. Mrs Bundesministerins! I already have to hold on to the following, and this is a need for me, because this is so true of the SPÖs: Mrs Becher, the government has certainly not fallen down on your pressure and has given up small contributions. Mrs Stadlbauer, this law has come about because there is a Minister of Justice Karin Gastinger and not, although there is one! I would like to stress this very strongly here, and Minister Gastinger would also like to express my thanks and my appreciation for it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 20 percent of the population are male. It is very often forgotten, however, that this is not just a purely women's issue. I know a case from my circle of acquaintances where an attempt has been made from outside to destroy a marriage. A former employee of the person concerned has tried by calling the wife, by e-mails, to drive a cone into the relationship through letters. She tried to cheer up the wife so that she might suspect her husband to have a girlfriend. Therefore, it is also very good from the point of view of men that there is this law. The case highlighted by Mr Riener is still to be mentioned – the Minister for Justice has already said that –: Of course, this type of harassment, as a consequence of the amendment of the Criminal Code, also applies as a consequence to a term of imprisonment for up to a year. Of course, this also applies – if you look at the explanations a little closer – to all the errors of this type by means of telecommunications, but also to the switching of incorrect ads, and an internet display in this way is certainly not excluded. Very difficult but especially in the field of the new media is the perceptibility. The way was chosen for the person concerned to explain how the text messages look like the emails in order to give the state the opportunity to intervene. That is, I think, the only way to go from the technical point of view. Especially the Greens, as a protector of democracy and freedoms, are always keen to show up at any time when there is too much telephone surveillance, are also thought to be constantly criticising if some providers are to make the data freely available to the judicial authorities. In this case, that would be a possible way. That is why I must say that I already miss your credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. It is like this once and for all, and that is not exactly what one understands as professionalism in politics. The area of the new media is not limited to Austria and the Austrian legal area. Someone who makes such a thing targeted and aware and professional will avoid a server that is located somewhere in the South Seas outside our legal system. Several predators and others are constantly being outsourced, for example, and so it is no longer possible for the Austrian judicial system to access them. In order to stop it, it is really necessary that the victim document everything, then go to the authority and submit everything. Then the authority in Austria can really act against the person concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8621	Mr Praßl, the next speaker, will be Mr Praßl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8642	Madam President. Mrs Bundesministerins! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would like to deal with the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code and, in particular, with environmental criminal law. A framework decision of the European Council, which has been in force for more than three years, was adopted on 27 July. January 2003, Austria undertakes to make a change in the National Criminal Code and in the Criminal Code. Articles 2 and 3 of the Framework Decision make it necessary to amend existing legislation or add new paragraphs. It must be said that these amendments only make it necessary to fulfil the obligations of international law. The requirements on the government template can be measured by the priorities of environmental crime in the Member States. These are, for example: Any damage or at least potential risks posed by environmental media, certain harmful to humans or the environment, or at least dangerous behaviours of illegal handling of hazardous waste or radioactive substances, and the operation of hazardous installations and illegal behaviour in connection with protected species animals and plants and with the ozone layer, if committed intentionally or grossly negligently. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The existing intent crimes will be adapted in terms of their scope of protection. For example, I would like to mention the extension in the area of the protection of monuments and other things. On the other hand, as already mentioned, negligence offences must also be inserted. New criminal provisions are created here; Criminal provisions against the negligent illicit use of nuclear material or radioactive substances as well as the negligent environmentally harmful operation of installations. It remains elements of the Criminal Code as dangerous offences or potential hazards, but are adapted and inserted in respect of the legal goods to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8683	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8704	Madam President. Mrs Governmentary colleague! High house! As Minister of Women, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to adopt this anti-talking law today. I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Gastinger for having done so during this legislative period, to give this law to Parliament and to get a majority for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I regret that the SPÖ cannot jump over its shadow here, especially since it itself says that it has long called for this anti-talking law. “Stalking” is certainly a new term, but so new is not the concept that it is not had already been known in 1995, and in the legislative period from 1995 to 1999, a women's minister Barbara Prammer, an interior minister Schlögl – perhaps he has defended himself with his hands and feet; Thank God Mrs Prokop has not taken hands and Feet fired – and given to a Minister of Justice Michalek. So no one would have prevented you from bringing this law to the Council of Ministers. Now, because the grapes may be too high, offended to play and not go along, I do not think that they are very democratic. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Gastinger.]] - Oh, I'm sorry! The Greens don't go with you, the SPÖ goes with you. That's from the old clothes collection. I am glad that this will be recognized! I take everything back and I'm very happy. That was a misunderstanding! I regret that the Greens are not going along, because I also believe that, as Mrs Federal Minister Gastinger has already said, it is better to enforce a law than to negotiate forever and then have no law. It will in any case be a major improvement for those concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also particularly like to thank Mrs Gastinger, the Federal Minister, for the fact that, in the area of traditional violence, she has achieved a strengthening of the measures that have made the genital mutilation and, above all, the question of forced marriage an official offence, ensuring that any advertising can not be withdrawn even by pressure on those affected. In this sense, I believe, we can now decide to make a significant improvement for women in our country, for women threatened by violence or psychoterrorism in our country. I would like to express my thanks once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8767	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8789	Madam President. Dear women ministers! I too am glad that this anti-talking law is finally presented. After Mrs Rauch-Kallat pointed out that the SPÖ had already had the opportunity to adopt this law in the years 1995 to 1999, I would point out that in 1996 we decided here on the law on the protection of against violence, which is intended to protect victims from violence in the family. It was not easy – perhaps you can remember – to negotiate this anti-violence law with you in government coalition. And as far as I remember, the FPÖ members were against it at the time. A single Member stood up at the time and voted with us. It was Mr Haller, I remember very well, ladies and gentlemen. The topic of “violence against women, violence in the family, family violence” was always a concern of the SPÖ and the SPÖ women. We have always been very active in discussing this and in taking appropriate measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Throughout Europe – including in the Council of Europe, where I am a member – the Law on Violence is repeatedly cited as a success story, and Austria is invited to present how wonderful it works. And if we are here today – thank God, I say – a further matter of law in It is only consistent and good and right that we decide on this area of violence. But let me also comment on another point: For me, it is incomprehensible why phoneterrorism and stalking should not be an official offence if they are practised via other means of communication, such as e-mail or SMS. The statements made by Mr Fauland are not clear to me when he believes that, so to speak, an SMS-stalker is necessarily sending off his SMS from abroad or from overseas areas. I'm convinced that this happens especially on the spot. At least it would be possible. But I am glad that we have the opportunity to evaluate this law after two years and then, if it turns out that it doesn't work to fix this defect and make an official offence out of a claim offence and then decide in this form. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgently necessary to note here in the House that, in the case of convictions on the basis of the case-law of “Stalking”, an extrajudicial case-law is excluded from the outset. That is, I think, something very central, because at Stalking, it would be counterproductive to restore contact between victims and perpetrators over the extrajudicial settlement. That is exactly what we want to avoid, and therefore an out-of-court settlement in these cases should not be possible. In this sense, we will agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8843	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8864	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the Criminal Code and in the Criminal Procedure Order 1975 other sensitive materials are also regulated, and I would like to focus very briefly on those who concern the environment. There are, for example, sanctions in the case of illicit handling of nuclear materials or radioactive substances, but also in those cases in which environmentally harmful installations are operated. Furthermore, there are sanctions in the event of environmental damage by intent and negligence or in the case of environmentally harmful treatment and disposal of waste. I believe that these sanctions are quite correct and necessary, but I believe that it is especially necessary in this area to take a step ahead of now, in the preparation of documents where the administration is required. I would like to give you an example from my closer surroundings: The Hungarian Water Authority has drawn the attention of the Burgenian authorities to the fact that high salt concentrations would occur in the area of raab. After a long search, one finally found the contaminant, namely the operator of a geothermal plant that has its location far upriver. This operator, who does something very commendable on and on himself, namely using hot water for heating houses, originally had the requirement to re-inject this used water. Since this is then very difficult as technical and has proved to be very expensive financially, a new notice has been made that the water used can be brought into the passing stream. You can imagine that 70 tons of salt daily and additional oil derivatives for this river and for the fish stock there, i.e. for the entire ecology of this river, have no positive effects. So despite a legal decision, there are major problems with the environment. We will not be able to do much with this law in this case, but we must be very concerned about the environment in this area. This is what I want to say: Care for the environment cannot be regulated by law alone, but must be taken in all areas, including in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e8913	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we now have a relatively long, extensive vote before us, and I would therefore ask you to take the vote with me in a calm manner. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Law on Criminal Law Change 2006 in 1383 of the Supplements. Mr Jarolim, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked for an amendment and for a separate vote on each part of this amendment. Another request for a separate vote is put to the vote by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the proposed amendment and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 7, 18, 19, 20 and 21 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for these parts of the bill. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Article 1(6). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – This does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. I leave immediately on Article 1 Section 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Mr Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(15). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to be given to this effect. – This is not the majority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on Article 1(15) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In addition, Mr Jarolim, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 3(1). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Second protocol on the basis of its kind. K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities, together with declarations in 1301 of the Supplements, to be approved. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Justice for the adoption of the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions of this Convention are to be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements on cooperation work between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other, to combat fraud and other illegal acts affecting their financial interests, including final acts and agreements in 1064 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I am now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice that the present State Treaty, within the meaning of Article 50(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, should be fulfilled by the adoption of laws. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We now come to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, that the Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions of this Protocol should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of a Protocol on the Protocol to the Protocol on the Protocol on the Protocol on the Protocol on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities and of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Communities, I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: ==References== In January 1998, the extradition agreement signed with the Government of the United States of America within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Agreements between the European Union and the United States of America on extradition in 1347 of the Supplements were signed on June 2003. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:53:54]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1299, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on Patient Affairs (Patent Supply Act – PatVG) (1381 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9141	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Worm. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9174	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! By redesigning the patient’s supply, clear and transparent arrangements are to be established to enable patients to refuse medical treatment even if they lose their ability to act. We too have long called for the possibility of establishing a binding patient facility so that, if the patient is still fully aware of his perceptiveness and judgment, he can determine which treatment he wishes to refuse. Patients gain influence by this possibility on their future medical treatment, and their will is still observed if they are no longer able to express it themselves. Although this draft law is better than the original proposal presented for discussion, it does, in our view, still show substantial flaws. The first essential defect we see is the formal obstacles or strict formal regulations. (b) the establishment of the same before a lawyer, notary or a legal employee of the patient's representatives. In addition, after five years the patient supply must be renewed. All these strict requirements – and it also sees the Caritas of the diocese of Innsbruck Tyrolean Hospizgemeinschaft – limit autonomy rather than extending it. Furthermore, it is feared – not only by Dr. Medicus of the Tyrolean Hospice Community, but by the majority of the experts who participated in the hearing in this regard – that this form of binding patient provision could, as it were, become a minority programme due to the difficulties of the form. As provided for in this government paper, binding patient facilities can also be set up before a legal staff member of the patient's offices, and in this context, my group is particularly lacking in the fact that the patient's offices in Austria have different structures. For example, the patient's attorney's office in Tyrol is only responsible for the hospitals, so it can't work for established doctors or for patients who have their diseases treated there or who want to establish their order there. Furthermore, the patient's offices are very different, both in terms of personnel and in terms of their field of activity. Another weakness of this government template is that the costs of establishing a patient supply are relatively high, on the basis of the fact that it is necessary to establish it before a notary or before a lawyer. They are estimated at 100 to 300 €. – My colleague Puswald will express himself in detail. In our view, another major weakness of this government template is that, in addition to the high cost of going to the notary or to the lawyer for many citizens in our state, it is not a matter of course, but it still means an obstacle or a great threshold for them, so that it will rather be neglected. As a last point, I would like to address the question of an appropriate register; a point that seems very important to me. It must be mentioned that this government template does not provide for registration of binding patient provision. What is useful to me, ladies and gentlemen, the best binding patient provision if it cannot be found? No provision has been made for this in the draft law. Even if the Committee advocated either making a note on the e-card or setting up its own register, it must be said that this bill does not yet provide for such things, and we know very well that if this law is adopted today, it will already be in force one month after it has been signed. We believe that the question of registration has not yet been resolved is one of the biggest weaknesses in this draft law. That is why we cannot agree with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9230	Mrs Fekter's next speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9251	Madam President. Dear Mrs Gastinger! Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I've been President of the Justice Committee for 11 years, and I have to say: I've never been so emotionally burdened by a law like the patient's provision. It was terrifying for me how easily decided in the discussion about the life of others. It was terrifying for me to hear from the mouth of a notary that he would have a client whose father has been staring at the ceiling for weeks, and what else to keep him alive, so that the patient's provision would finally have to come about. It was also terrifying for me to hear in the hearing from a university professor's mouth, but the legislator was supposed to set up a catalogue of treatment methods that was automatically abandoned. - High house! The ÖVP strongly rejects such nonsense! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every man and woman has the right to treatment, and no one – really nobody! – may appear as a judge over life-worthy or non-life-worthy life! As a legislator or here in Parliament, I do not want to contribute to a society that suggests to the elderly and the sick that they should refrain from treatment. No development should be created to put pressure on older people, for example, according to the motto that they would fall at the expense or cost too much. Therefore, it is the wrong access to enable all patients to be provided easily and, as far as possible, to all patients from the outset. We as legislators have the task of preventing this. I also did not want a law whereby heirs and other beneficiaries, beneficiaries – which can also be home guides – decide on life and death, according to which coma patients can be “disposed” so that heirs can come to their money. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All of this was to prevent this law. Therefore, we have not made it easy to access, but with careful consideration we have also formally expressed it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The legislator has to protect human dignity until the very last, and a disposal society in which easy-to-understand devices are to be signed in order to save costs to avoid as much as possible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The provision of patients is a declaration of will by which one refuses medical treatment. This will generally be life-saving and is therefore an enormously serious decision and a serious decision. There is a consensus here in the House of God that we do not want active death aid and will never allow it. The field of tension in this law is marked by medical prescription, but on the other hand no doctor must treat against the will of a patient. As long as the patient can articulate, this is not a problem either: He can refuse treatment, and the doctor has to stick to it. But if he can't articulate himself anymore, for example, because he's in the coma, then he's a stranger. This foreign provision must be examined very carefully. It must not be pre-determined in advance. That is to say, if you decide in writing, you should be legally advised and you should know from the medical point of view exactly what you are refusing to do so to prevent abuse, because no one can so to speak wish for a patient supply or demand it. The relatives must not stand around the bed, according to the motto: Now, at last, subscribe because therapy costs so much!, the home lines may still demand patient supplies, according to the motto: Don't give up this treatment so you can get a home! – We have provided for a penalty for such pressure. We don't want a society that allows such a thing. I hope that this instrument will not be applied easily, but rather that it will be handled very carefully, and that the new instrument will lead to greater sensitivity to death in dignity.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9317	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Puswald. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9339	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and on the Tour! I am in very large parts with you, Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Wittauer: You might say a little bit about the BAWAG!]] – I'll be right back to that, my dear colleague. I am glad that you want to widen the subject so widely in political self-debtedness. But back to Mrs. Fekter. . In fact, we agree on the content across the borders of the political groups, including with regard to emotionality and, as you have said, that it is not easy to talk about life, that we should not be overly possessing it. All this is theoretically possible now. In medical and legal practice, patient facilities are often established, and it is undisputed that the patient has the right to declare certain treatments and actions in advance according to his will. However, there are massive legal issues that you, as you have said, wanted to address with the necessary clarity and transparency. According to the hearing that took place in the last judicial committee with the participation of many experts, we believe that precisely this clarity and transparency has not been established. It is probably really about the most delicate moments in the life of a human being, about which man should decide either in healthy times or then already drawn by diseases. These are so differentiated situations of life that we, as an outsider, cannot imagine God, but can understand with some sense. That is why I believe that this law should have dealt with a much more detailed and precise subject and should have had the courage to discuss the cost question openly – that has already been mentioned. It opens up the possibility – and here I am also with you, Mrs Collaborative, that you should require the competent Council to be medically and legally mandatory. But if you say A, you also have to say B: Highly qualified advice, if it is paid in a serious and sufficient amount of time, costs something! What costs nothing is well worth nothing. However, these costs should not lead to the possibility, at all events, of preventing those affected by such an appalling emergency, because they lack money. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to discuss this question in detail and also with the representatives of the notaries and lawyers regarding the costs to conduct clear discussions, because everything to beat about a performance and to say that it will cost between €100 and €200 or perhaps €300 will not continue us, because that is not true, it can cost much less. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The patient attorney's office costs nothing!]] The patient attorney's office is another subject. We are now consciously speaking – and we have discussed this in the Committee on Justice – about the costs that will and must arise from serious technical advice. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Worm and Dr. Fekter.]] In particular, it concerns cooperation. It will be necessary for doctors and lawyers to carry out the consultation together, and this will cost money; by the way, money – and this should not be brought to the meeting now – which may be saved from the state by expensive treatments if the patient has what he intends to have. But then you must also have the courage to say who is paying these costs. For example, it would be right and cheap to ask the question of whether these costs should not be incurred from social security, namely not only for the medical part, but also for the legal part, because ultimately the whole thing goes into the health resort, and here a decent discussion would have been necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... no patient supply! That's not an instrument for everyone! That's supposed to be an exception!]] They have broken down this discussion, although we are in the heart, in the emotion and also in the matter of opinion, and have stopped it in half ways. Therefore, unfortunately, we do not come to a consensus which is to be regretted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9408	The next item is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9429	Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: What Mrs Fekter said about moral and ethical aspects certainly has a very great right. It also surprised me that neither in the public nor in our expert hearing has actually been criticized that one is working on such a patient supply. On the contrary: There was unanimous agreement on this patient supply. But I do not believe that the motivation is the one that is discussed about the value or unvalue of life or the cost of what a sick person costs, but rather that we do not want to look at it today, or how people who are suffering in reality would no longer exist, because their physical or mental functions have already been exposed, if there were not the possibilities of modern medical technology – modern medical technology is not likely to succeed today! – and in reality one would say: Actually, one should have let man die in peace! – I think these are the reasons for patient provision. As I said, we had an expert hearing, and the experts actually approved it through the bank – it was representatives of the hospice and various associations such as the Senior Council and so on. The only thing that has been criticized is the strict formal regulations, and they mean: There is no need for strict formal regulations at the will! – I am familiar with these strict rules of form, because the will is only about the wealth, but it is about the patient provision of life. It's about: If I can't decide for myself, do I want to continue to be nourished, breathed, and so on? – In my opinion, this is far more satisfying than just having my jewelry, my house, or anything else. That's why I think it's right that we removed this obstacle that patient delivery can only be established before a notary, a lawyer, or a patient lawyer. First of all, anyone who makes such a decision about his life should consider well the following: Do I really want to? It should not happen from a momentary situation. Secondly, it should also require the doctor. I'm really against the patient's will being interpreted by the doctor. The doctor should know: This is a binding patient supply, I'm bound to it, no matter how I think about it myself. If I have and require such a form requirement, then it is also ensured that there are clear formulations, then there is no uncertainty for the doctor, but then, in the cooperation of the patient's experts, can determine exactly what he wants and what he does not want, because it is not the task of the doctor and not the task of the court to investigate what the patient actually wanted, but should determine for himself what he wants and what he does not want. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Dr. Grünewald.]] In the hearing, a patient attorney's representative meant that the threshold should be as low as possible. That meant that every note or anything that is critical would be binding; for this there is a non-binding patient provision, which the doctor can then explain as he wants, but for a binding one that is really too weak. The doctor would have to do whatever is possible, even in hopeless cases, to save the life of man, even if he did not want it at all, because he made the oath to save life. That is why, as I said, it is not a market economy, but rather a strict form code! As far as the cost is concerned, Mrs Wurm said that it would be a minority programme because of its cost. Mrs Wurm! - Yes. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Zupancic, Vice President of the Austrian Senior Council!]] It's meaty who said that; You mentioned it here. I believe that binding patient provision will be a minority programme anyway, because who would like to determine what happens to him if he is no longer able to think? Don't everyone think: Maybe if I get artificial food, I'll get a little more.Unknown term type: "%s".? Is it happening if I have left the rest of my life now? – I therefore believe that this will be a minority programme anyway. For those who really think it is serious, I do not think that the cost argument can be suffocating. The President of the Bar Benn-Ibler said that it would cost about €100 to set up a patient supply. That seems to be quite realistic. Perhaps notaries, lawyers and patient lawyers will also be able to reach a uniform solution. At any rate, I believe that it will not fail for those who really think it is serious. Mrs Worm, you also mentioned the registration and meant that it was important. I'll give you the right. I think it would be the best thing to say the patient in the e-card. There are also discussions about this, namely whether the main association of social security institutions may not make an understanding when the deadline expires so that patient provision can be renewed. In my opinion, this would be a very good regulation. Registration must be available in all cases. Finally, I would like to stress that the legal provisions concerning the prohibitions of participation in suicide and killing on request, i.e. the so-called active death aid, are not affected by this provision. These illegal acts are still threatened with punishment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9477	Next is Mrs Mag. Becher in word. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9498	Ladies and gentlemen! Modern medicine has more and more means and ways of treating diseases, extending lives and saving lives. Most of us are very grateful for this, and many patients, relatives and doctors consider this to be a very great help. But there are also situations where people who want patients no longer want to take any treatment, and no longer want to add life-longening measures. They want to be self-determined and to hold their specific ideas in a patient's capacity. Unfortunately, from our point of view, God’s present presentation is problematic and defective. Unfortunately, we cannot agree to this proposal. Some of the arguments that have been put forward against them have already been put forward by my colleagues. From my point of view, the financial obstacle is a very serious argument, as I feel it is socially unfair for people to be prevented by a “presiding self-determination” – as the German National Ethicism puts it – and to be put in the way of monetary beatings. However, it is also envisaged that legal persons should be consulted in order to provide such a patient; this is provided for in § 6 and also in the materials. I spoke about this with an employee of a Catholic hospice, and he meant: Why many legal persons do not manage to create a prefabricated form that addresses many different needs and wishes which allow for filling and certifying with medical advice and in which a withdrawal can also be noted? In this sense I also understood Professor Barta's contribution to hearing. He has put this into practice, and he means that the rule, a lawyer or a notary, creates a barrier, which could be brought into the institutions and made easier by it. Of course, registration is a very essential point. With proper registration, however, it is also the self-determination of a patient to be taken seriously. This was also criticised in the hearing by the Vice-President of the Council of Seniors, who said that in many cases it would not be possible to find a patient in good time. The e-card would be a way to bring another option would be to bring a reference card, which could also be a good registration variant. Last point: For me, it is still incomprehensible that there is no transitional solution for the many patient facilities that already exist and which have no further validity in this form. I think that these self-determined considerations of these people are not taken seriously. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this proposal from the above points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9549	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9571	Madam President. Ladies, ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike the Socialist Group, the Greens will vote in favour of this bill. – This will then be explained by Professor Grünewald in detail, not only because I consider him more competent on this issue, but also because, as a doctor – there are only two doctors among the members of the National Council, Dr. Rasinger and he – so to speak, he has different access to this subject and a different look at it. We Members of the National Council, who have other professions and who may also be recipients of this new law, are pleased that this law is being passed today. - We are not only affected as a patient. You can be a patient if you're not sick yet. As soon as you go to a doctor, you are a patient, even if it's only about consulting and you're still healthy. We are glad for a very specific reason, because in the course of the discussion, which was not too excited in the public, the intermediate sounds that have existed, but which – now I can say – have remained silent to God, have also gone in a different direction, namely not to allow a patient delivery law, because the concern – which can be seen positively and negatively – of a possible abuse or also a possible approach to the discussion about active death aid in this border area is a legitimate one. I somehow felt in these discussions that if we do not end the matter, it could also turn back in the other direction. I am now also speaking from experience as a member of the Austrian Con- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the experience I have gained in many long and intensive meetings within the framework of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, where we have clearly and unanimously rejected the death aid. Only in a few points were there such clear consensus as on the rejection of active death aid in Austria. We have discussed this for a long time, but not only among the members of this committee, who, as it were, may be all patients, but also with experts who have participated in the hearing we have carried out in order to obtain more expertise, To that end, the hearing in the judicial committee, which was carried out shortly after the decision-making process, was also very informative to me, because it confirmed me in those points where I am also opposed to this law with mixed feelings. I thought that if I noticed that and if that is confirmed by people who have had to do with patient activities in the past or who have to do with them in the present, then that will probably be right. At the beginning, I would like to clarify the following: The person who, in my opinion, is most intensively in contact with the topic, alongside the representatives of the Hospice Movement, was the representative of the Patient Prosecutorship, Dr. Bachinger. He said something that Mrs. Partik-Pablé completely misunderstanded. He spoke of it in the hearing – I have once again chosen it from the correspondence of Parliament – that he pleads for as low-sleep access to the instrument of patient provision as possible, and has of course seen his institution as the one that also brings a great deal of experience. This is one of the points that we are also expressing in our motion for a resolution, which will be distributed because of its scale. Mr. Bachinger expressed it much more beautifully than I could. He said that it had to be avoided that patient facilities would become an elitist programme for a small group, that is to say, the obstacles to access. One of the obstacles to access can and will be – hopefully not too intense, but I fear that it will be one – the question of costs. This question was addressed not only by Dr. Bachinger, but also by Mrs. Mag. Teushl from the Caritas Socialis, who now has the most intense experience in their active professional life with patients who are standing at the end of their life and who need or seek death accompaniment. She has expressed this concern that there are two obstacles in which it is not yet clear how they will be taken with the new law. The first obstacle is the cost of medical education and the second the cost of establishing patient care. President Benn-Ibler spoke of 100 to 200 €, the notaries also called sums. I'll tell you: If a lawyer speaks of €200 without obligation, the bill is €400. – That’s my experience, and I’m not quite wrong. I'll tell you: My concern, which I share with Bachinger and many others, is that this instrument will remain what Mrs. Dr. Fekter said: an instrument used by a few. But she meant it differently, in the sense that you do not meet too early on about the end of life That's still far away. Here I am quite with her that this is to be observed. However, if the establishment of a patient’s supply at a cost of €200 to €300 for the legal part, while the costs for the medical education unit are still completely open – it is also completely open to anyone who pays the medical education: Does it pay the social security? Or are the private fees of doctors? Or are you going to the Caritas Socialis, which so to speak has already been offered?So it's not quite clear: Is it free of charge, or is it included in the care area? – then the obstacles that do not fulfil the very purpose of this law are because they will exclude poorer and financially less well-informed sections of the population from this new instrument, which I consider to be correct, necessary and finally legal. This is also the content of our motion for a resolution, which I would like to read now, where we are submitting to the Minister for Justice the idea and the proposal to include the courts in the establishment of patient provision. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If that were added to the law, at least my concerns and fears would be discouraged, then it would not be an instrument – how did you say that? – a minority programme, but rather a targeted instrument for people who are in autonomy – namely, in financial autonomy! – make a provision on the dignity of farewell to life in advance. That is what we want to achieve, and there is no one to prevent the costs from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9687	That of Mrs Magist. The motion for a resolution tabled by Stoisits is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9765	Mrs Frau Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9787	Madam President. Mrs Gastinger! High house! First of all, a few words about the history of this law: In response to the legalisation of the death aid in Holland, Austria has also made a clear confession – a four-party confession – against the active death aid, but for the death accompaniment and in this episode also carried out a parliamentary survey in May 2001 in order to demonstrate solidarity with the dying and to discuss aspects of a human death accompaniment in Austria. As a result of this survey, a four-party application was made in December 2001, in which the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was commissioned to develop a draft law. At that time, Federal Minister Haupt immediately set up a group of experts, which has taken place from 2001 to 2003. Following the amendment of the Ministry's Act, the Ministry of Health has adopted this group of experts, completed a draft law and sent it into review. Further, we have discussed and debated very intensively in particular with the Ministry of Justice, with the Minister of Justice and its experts, but also with the representatives of the Hospiz movement, the organisations that have been working on building up the death support in Austria for years now, and with the Ethics Commission, we have tried to further develop this draft law on the joint Council of Ministers of the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Health. What was that about? – Patients were also possible so far. However, they were only remarkable, not binding. It is especially thanks to the Caritas Socialis and Caritas, who have developed the instrument, written information brochures, but also made drafts for patient activities. On the whole, however, all of this has moved in the right-hand room to this day and has naturally led to uncertainty among patients, as well as doctors. In this legal regulation, it was important for us to make a clear distinction, in the field of tension between patient autonomy, that is self-determination, and the prohibition of active death aid and, on the other hand, the obligation to make medical decisions, the obligation to treat and also the need for medical treatment, because the patient autonomy limits the obligation to take medical care. – It cannot, however, require active death aid. The debate in this field of tension has been very intense in the last one and a half years. We really didn't make it easy. We have intensively especially with experts who actually with dying and heavy have worked and worked with doctors, but also with lawyers to find the best possible solution. The previous speeches have already shown that each one of us was very affected, also with regard to the question of how abuse can be prevented, how to ensure that dying people are not so to speak driven into the binding patient supply by pressing heirs. Therefore, there was the need for intensive medical advice so that the patient could actually decide, and the need for formal conditions for the binding provision of patients and also for the time-limitation of the binding patient's provision, which is nevertheless at any time revocable by the patient or by the patient himself. – That is, as long as the patient or the patient is able to articulate, he or she may, of course, withdraw a binding patient supply. The written binding provision of patients is particularly valid if the patient or the patient is no longer able to articulate when he or she has lost consciousness. If binding patient provision has already expired in this phase, it is still a considerable patient supply – a highly significant one, for we know that there is a wide range of liability to be decided by the doctor or by the doctor in his or her responsibility. I believe that this law has enabled us to achieve the goal – namely the creation of a clear regulation for patients and also for doctors – and that we have created a wide range of instruments with the distinction between binding and significant. A considerable patient supply does not need this form condition, therefore is not associated with such costs, and we know that in the meantime the Caritas has already completed some 130 000 patient facilities with patients who, of course, continue to be considered significant, also in the sense of high attention. What's important, perhaps, is: Of course, handling in emergency situations is also regulated. The law does not affect medical emergency care provided that the time spent searching for a patient would seriously endanger the life or health of the patient or the patient. Of course, we should also consider, for example, a note on the health card – on the e-card – or subsequently on the electronic life-accompanied health certificate, so that the doctor or doctor has this information available very quickly. I would like to thank you very much, especially Mrs Gastinger and her house for the good cooperation in this law. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Maria Theresia Fekter, who has accompanied us for a long time, including in the development of the draft Council of Ministers, and for Mrs Partik-Pablé, who has also accompanied us, but also for all the members of the opposition for the serious discussion in the Committee, of course also among the experts who have accompanied us on this path. I think that we can now adopt a good law, which will certainly allow for possible improvements in two or three years' evaluation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9878	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9899	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, I find it extremely difficult to accept this law. - I have to say that. But I will agree and will also explain why. Why is that hard for me? – I think that is – and many previous speakers have already said it – the most delicate and difficult decision I have ever made in this Parliament. It is a law that ultimately concerns us to let patients decide whether their lives are still worth it or not, at a time when they do not yet know how they will be when they will not be able to decide. This is such an incredibly difficult matter that no other law has ever approached me as close as this decision-making. We give the patient the full responsibility by this law. Whether we also strengthen patient autonomy, that is the question. This has to be carefully examined, and I have great doubts about it. The patients are naturally accompanied by people who are not at all affected by it in accordance with the law to be adopted today. In contrast to some others, I have not experienced hearing as positive as it is because, in the first place, things such as the costs have come to light; also, patient lawyer Dr. Bachinger has literally said that this regulation should not be a minority programme. It's clear to me, of course, that he basically meant something else. However, he did not respond to our demand until what he actually wanted to do with his statement that it should not be a minority programme. I can already follow him, of course, but I find it very worrying when an expert comes up in a hearing and proves that it is not a minority programme. That must be a minority programme. Nor should it be primarily the question of costs to determine whether the law is suitable or not. Mrs. Wurm, you're making it too easy in your rejection. Costs do not play a major role in such a decision. On the other hand, we have of course built in obstacles – and for the outcome of the negotiations I am expressly grateful to Maria Theresia Fekter and Mrs Collaborative Partik-Pablé. We have built in lawyers and notaries, but also the patient lawyers, and they cost nothing. Therefore, a patient’s supply is a leader for all. Of course, not an elitist programme should be made from all over the world. In this respect, I already understand the patient lawyer, but that it must not remain a minority programme, it cannot be. In preparation for this law, I have also looked very closely at what has been done in the context of the review, including what has been said by the churches, and I would like to critically question that here. The Austrian bishops have published the guideline “Life in Abundance”. They have also dealt with the patient supply and in fact formulated: The idea of a patient supply based on the recognition of certain principles, namely the inavailability of human life, is generally welcomed. – But we just have life with the patient provision! In so far as I understand what the Austrian Catholic bishops are saying to us in this letter, not quite. That is why I would have been very fond of a deep discussion in this case. I agree with the law because I believe it is better than the current state, which is very much in the grey area. It is very wise if there is a legal regime here. I also agree because we have decided to evaluate it in three years.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9958	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e9979	Madam President. Dear ministers! High house! I would like to address a few speeches. First: The title of this law, Mrs. Fekter, is called patient provision, not available to family members. He also says that he is not available from home managers about home insassins and also not available from doctors to patients. – It must be clear once. Secondly, Can we perhaps agree that, apart from a few embarrassing exceptions, not all Austrians are encouraged by this law or are just waiting to shorten the lives of their parents, grandparents, aunts and ebonies, just to get on their spasms and on them? That would be a life setting and a consideration of the society I do not want to share. Provision is made for individual cases in this Act. There are obstacles and thresholds and also very severe penalties to prevent them. I think it's just time to think about it once: What are the patient's concerns? My experience says that they don't come to the doctor or to the hospital and then fear to be killed there because they don't take their suffering seriously, because they don't take their lives seriously, but they're mainly afraid that there can be situations where their suffering is unnecessarily prolonged against their will and they can do nothing about it. And I'm taking that seriously! As you know, every injection – even one under the skin, it doesn't have to be in a vein at all – is a body injury in court and I as a patient can say no to that. A woman can say after diagnosis breast cancer: No, I don't want anti-hormonal therapy because my psyche, my life, my dealings with people can affect my self-esteem. I don't want my breast amputated, even if this increases the risk of shortening life. - That's bitter. I've already experienced such situations. You can try to convince the patient, but there's a point I have to say: Yes, if she does this in full possession of the knowledge about the risk, I will not be left with anything but to accept it. So that we might get a little closer to the subject, a very short story: I once had a nearly 60-year-old factory worker who was suffering from acute leukemia. I probably knew the man almost a year. Many treatment attempts were crowned with success, but only for a few weeks. The acute leukemia has come back. Everyone knows that after the fourth relapse, the chance to intervene here again in a favourable manner almost goes against zero, that a treatment attempt through the side effects of massive, severe, the body's disincentive therapy means death to 50 percent. It was pretty bad for me, for us, for his family. The woman of this patient fell into a river with suicide a few weeks ago. He had two adult children. They came to me and said: We want to drive with our dad again to Jesolo, where we played with him as children. My boss has forbidden it because it's too risky. And now I'm saying something that maybe I shouldn't say. The boss then went on vacation. I talked to the children again and I said: Okay, go! They came back after ten days, the patient came back to me and then died after three days. I was there until 4:00 in the morning. In addition to the whole grief of the children, the joy and satisfaction of being there with the father, where they were already children. I didn't do any therapy either, and this probably contributed to the reduction of life. This is what it is all about: that patients, once they are not able to wish for themselves that someone can say that they can then have it. I consider this order to be available to this desire about my life for no attack against the divine will. If a life is given to me, whoever – you can now look at it religiously or otherwise – you can return a gift. They have gifts on their own, otherwise they're not a gift. If the autonomy of the patient is to be undermined by people who say that's all I care about, in addition to the right to life, I also want to give the patient the duty to live, then I say: We should not presume to help other people have a duty to live over their heads. That is why I find such a choice necessary and good. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is a first step, a careful step. Many compromises, through many critical, legitimate and, in part, very unwarranted comments, have led to this. They have watered down a lot. We Greens therefore agree only in third reading and also bring in an amendment, whose motives I have already indicated and which I would like to make briefly. What I don't like: If I want to determine my life autonomously – it is not just about death – I also want to influence as a living person – my life is a value – which therapy I want or not. It's everybody's right. You can also say to the dentist: Do this or that! Why should it be suddenly banned in sensitive cases? We are supposed to experience the sick as a partner and not as subjects and the system out of power. This is no longer an attitude, even if it has not yet been enforced. If I consider this free wish of the patients to be a fundamental right now, it seems strange to me that a fundamental right of citizens must first be bought by paying with the notary, lawyer or elsewhere. Fundamental rights must be of course and have no price. They're free of charge. I can also express my opinion free of charge. The next time I make a request, I can only say my opinion if I pay something; perhaps the President of Parliament or a club. Where are we going? So that should be changed! Minority programmes back or forth. A fundamental right cannot be a minority programme. This is a contradiction to and for itself. Few will do so because few deal with death or critical situations of their lives. Okay, that's their right, it's also a human right. There you can ask yourself – this is perhaps the worst thing I can say now –: Why should medical advice, which I support in principle, also be mandatory for anyone who does not believe in school medicine? Some believe in the shamans, in the dancing Dervise, in brook blossoms. That's also her right, which I have to accept somewhere. Why not? Why is there so much fear? The patient's attorneys are a nuisance that federalism brings us. This should also be acknowledged if the countries now write in their opinions: We do not bear these costs. We don't equip our patient attorneyship so they could advise people on how to provide a patient or not. I also think it is a little critical to write in, this right or the liability of a decision is ineffective if the state of medical science has changed significantly. If you know how scientists argue, what the state of science on the one hand and what a significant development on the other is, I always find levers to the patient's will so to speak... – I understand that too. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a classic error! Then he will be wronged if he can be healed.]] But the law says: If decisive changes occur in science when conditions have changed. But you know, I've also experienced transplanting a leukemia disease bone marrow. He was in the sterile tent. He then got a heart attack through the therapy, and all of them were free with his street shoes and revived him. He's bleeding out of his eyes, ears, mouth and nose, and he's scared. You have to see that too! Of course, we might have let him live for four or five days. But these are border situations that some people don't understand. Why should patients not also think about such border situations and be prepared for them? Also as a healthy one? So that can't be a minority programme. In short: We nevertheless agree because I fear that, I am not saying dark powers now, but that very conservative circles keep people away from something and place suspicious moments where they are not to be feared to this massive extent as they are pronounced. We are voting in favour of this law because it is a step and we have been able to negotiate or negotiate amendments and findings from the Committee, which allow for an evaluation of the law on strengths and weaknesses, and then perhaps allow wider, more free access to it and allow some improvements that I consider necessary. But overall I also thank you for taking this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10034	Mr Grünewald has just tabled the amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues in his key points, explains, so that it is also properly introduced. It is also sufficiently supported. On the basis of its scope, I leave this application in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed to all Members. He is also involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10169	Mrs Mag. Gastinger. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10190	Madam President. Dear Mrs Israël. Ladies and gentlemen of the High Authority Houses! From the previous speeches, we already see how sensitive this issue is, and basically the discussion we already had in the expert hearings that really took place on this matter continues here again. I have seen the expert hearing carried out in the judicial committee as very informative. I also have to say that my impression was that the patient provision in the current form, as it is proposed and as it was prepared by the staff of my house and the staff of my colleague, has largely obtained the consent. There have already been a number of points on which one can certainly discuss, because access to them is a different one. We have now seen this from the discussions. I would like to address Dr. Grünewald, who has just very clearly explained the life story of a very sick person, or also Mrs Wurm. It is, of course, true that one can certainly discuss these thresholds, but I am firmly convinced that they are right – I expressly say this again, because we have had a lot of thoughts about them – for the reason that it is also the right thing to do, because it is about allowing a binding patient provision to take hold at a time when the patient can no longer express himself. As long as the patient is unable to express himself, so neither lies in the coma nor is mentally confused – that can be the case – he can say at any time, I don't want a PEG probe, I don't want a syringe, I don't want my breast amputated, I don't want it all. – This is possible at any time, without form, as the spoken word suffices. More difficult, however, is the situation when the patient can no longer express himself. That's exactly the point that it's really about. It has not moved there for five years until we thank God today at last so far that we can decide on this law here. That's exactly the point. The patient can no longer express himself, can no longer reveal his will. After numerous discussions, we have come to the conclusion that formal regulations are necessary for the safety of the patient so that he is aware of the treatment he rejects and what consequences this has. This means education by the doctor, education or counseling also through a legal advisor, a lawyer, notary or patient lawyer. This makes sense that this expression of will is so clear that it is understandable to everyone, especially to the doctor, in the situation in which it is intended to grasp. That was exactly the reason. Those who sit in the Committee on Justice will certainly be able to remember how a very experienced family judge, whom I very much appreciate personally, Dr. Mauthner, has reported in the Committee on Justice, how difficult it is often to interpret wills where the deceased meant, he makes it quite clear and the afterworld will know very well what he meant. There are often many years of legal disputes because man was unable to express himself so clearly that then it is really clear what he meant. But here the deceased has already died and basically it is about money for the descendants. I mean, that's also bad, but it's, of course, negligible in relation to life, I'd say once. But that really strengthened me that it was right for those areas of which we think that this should be absolutely valid also for the time when someone can no longer express himself, to provide for formal regulations. And I also believe that this should not be a cost question. That is why we are quite aware the patient's offices for legal advice, which, as Dr. Bachinger said, should be free of charge, and thus corresponded to the wishes of the patient's attorney. So I think that was the right way. What is certainly still in need of re-adjustment – that is what I see, and I am very glad that the High National Council will adopt a resolution – is the question of registration. There are different models of how to handle this. This also requires technical implementation and, above all, feasibility analysis. This will certainly be a question that we must consider even further. Whether it will be the e-card, as the honourable Member has pointed out, will be a card that you will always carry with you – I mean, you can do it now – or whether it will be a register with the notaries – the representative of the Notarial Chamber has also stated that this would be possible – then you will certainly have to consider what is most useful; but that will certainly be the case. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like briefly to refer to the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Grünewald, friends, who were brought in earlier, which includes the involvement of the courts. I didn't support it. I have expressly said in committee that I cannot imagine involving the courts. That must have been a misunderstanding, obviously I spoke out there in vain. I would now like to make this clear. I mean, the courts are not responsible for carrying out legal advice. The courts shall make decisions. The courts decide whether something is in conformity with law or not. It is not the task of the courts to carry out legal advice. This is the task of the legal professions and we have now provided for them in this patient provision. I think that's the right way. I also believe that the courts – as much as I am really convinced that we have an excellent judicial system in Austria and can rightly be proud of our justice and our courts – would be overwhelmed by this question of legal advice, as proposed here, because it simply does not fit in with their image. I wanted to do that very briefly. This is a very sensitive matter and we have done very carefully, consciously very carefully in this regard. At this point I would like to express my thanks again to all the employees, including the experts who have made very important contributions to us, that we are so far today that we can decide on this law; and to you for your attention. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10273	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10294	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am very glad that, in particular, thanks to Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, at least not all of us here today have, in a similar way, been able to continue the partly unfair debate in the Committee. I do not think that we would otherwise have given a good witness if matters such as this patient service were primarily about costs and formalities. What is it really about? – It is about a similar sensitive border area, as we had it here in Parliament, before my time, in the context of the deadline solution. It's about the border between life and death, it's about the border area of what medicine can and can do. Each of us knows that every day human lives will be held. It is provided by doctors to extend life, but also to shorten it at all times. I believe that the only thing that really justifys this law is that life will already exist today. Then it is better for every human being to have his own life and death before that time, at which else only he can be held. In this sense, I am very grateful for the formal restrictions that have been imposed on the binding provision of patients. It is not a question of having to be advised by a lawyer about what forms of treatment there are – because that has already been said. That's what the doctor does. But it is important that a lawyer, who is also able to formulate the client's will accordingly, is involved so that it does not lead to misunderstandings. And it is important that one also has the opportunity to go to a lawyer, to a notary, to a person of his trust, and not to any institution or authority that is held responsible for it. Finally, this law will not be able to solve all the problems that arise. It is clear that there will always be doubts in the event of inaccurate formulations even if there is a clear patient presence. There will always be situations especially for doctors in which they have to decide whenever a person is allowed to die in dignity. Most old people in those countries in which there is already the opposed active death aid are afraid of lying in the hospital at some point, connected to equipment – that is, the body lasts very long, very long; these are possibilities that were not yet available too long ago – and not to die in peace and dignity. I believe that we have also made a very sensitive contribution to the death of dignity and fear. And I appeal in particular to the doctors to deal carefully with the decisions they have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10345	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10367	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The consultation we are now conducting leads us to an issue that is certainly one of the most difficult, even though it is an in-depth one. In reality, as several speakers have already mentioned, it is not a question of resolving things, such as inheritances or covering cost factors. It's about people at the end, it's about finding a way that people can express themselves in full possession of their senses and powers, how they might imagine the most difficult time, the crisis period of their lives, or how they wanted to design them. Patients are told that certain treatments are rejected in the event that the patients are no longer able to see and judge at that time or can no longer express themselves. We have had to deal with this issue in the Council of Europe. There was a presentation on the euthanasia of Swiss colleague Dick Marty, who pointed out that this was applied in some countries, such as Holland and Belgium, and that he would have wanted to get rid of a movement from the Council of Europe on this issue, so to speak. We were able to prevent this from happening; I am very happy, very grateful and also happy for every hour of discussion, for every contribution we could make there so that this issue was prepared and rejected. We are not the only ones taking action in this respect, the French National Assembly and the German Bundestag have also made similar decisions in recent months. We would like to give an answer to or a proposal for a solution for a situation which we can present in a short time: We have a higher life expectancy today. We have other social environments today. There is a medical development that not only means blessing, but also, for many, if they experience it, is a burden. And you're trying to answer that. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think there's been a lot of success. I would like to express my thanks to Maria Fekter, who has been exemplary and committed to many experts. I'm just trying to get it to the point, as I said in the Council of Europe: We have everything to do that people may die in the hands of people in the future – and not have to die by the hands of people. We want to achieve that. If we can make a small contribution to this great decision, then, I think, this is a good template that will of course find our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10427	The next speaker was Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10448	Mr President. Dear women ministers! As a representative of a nursing profession, I would like to say something about this patient supply for 30 years now. In principle, I am in favour of this instrument. For me, it is the framework that will be created for both doctors and caregivers, that a structure will finally enter the whole. We have always had border incidents, with a certain structure being helpful. Death and death were often a taboo theme, it was not talked about, it was not accepted. However, I can no longer confirm this. When I started my work, dying were still in baths, today a person dies in the hospital or in an institution like at home. You don't take him out of the patient room either, although this is always required. I think death belongs to life, just as life is dying. It is also necessary in medical and nursing care very much knowledge, skill and also responsibility. Dr. Grünewald has partly taken note of how sensitive this issue is. I would, however, also sometimes see the acute situation Compare with the normal situation, because it looks very dramatic when you mix it with each other. Of course, it must also be accepted that, despite this provision of patients, there will continue to be open questions. I don't think we can do everything on the spot and on the side, because for that we simply have the life of every single one of us too much. If we look at how diseases can develop, what procedures they can take, or even if the forecast is quite different, then a disease for the individual often goes quite differently. We also need to calculate this sensitive area. I also think that the circle of those who want advice with regard to patient care will increase, because especially members of the medical and also the nursing sector – no matter where they work, whether in the acute hospital, in the nursing home, in the mobile care or simply at home in the care sector – have to deal with these things, if the law is, and this also affects them. In the future, I really need to ask the doctor in his doctor's certificate if there is a patient's provision. There are already patient supplies that can be made about the hospice. It also points out to everyone that he has such a thing that a doctor and a family has signed it. After all, these 130 000 existing patient facilities are no longer in secret, but they are being talked about very openly. That's why: I believe that this provision of patients with their legal limitations, which I think is good, offers security and stability to anyone who wants to do this. You don't have to think about possible abuse at first. I must personally say that today I would be unable to make such a patient provision for myself, even though I have been working in this profession and field for 30 years. I don't want to have to decide for myself right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10504	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10525	Mr President. My dear ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In principle, this is a very serious law that we are going to advise and decide today. I would like to say that I do not agree with the definition of Mr Grünewald on many points. I think it's simple to think that a patient's presentation is also about talking about a subject and not about being afraid, but about reducing fear of removing fear from the treatment rooms. I also believe that in the future we must take very seriously the content of this law, which we decide today, that we must observe very closely how it develops and that the evaluation will give us the opportunity to reconsider this matter in certain areas. We owe modern medicine and technology to the fact that a much longer life expectancy and at the same time an improvement in the quality of life have occurred. Many people today are still unsure and wish themselves quality of life, but also dignity and respect for their will until the last. I should like to point out that this is, in fact, a European issue and that these new orders are being debated and discussed in many countries. I think we should take into account the wishes of the citizens and the doctors, but we should really be very concerned about how these patient facilities develop. In this sense, I would like to ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10567	The next speaker was Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10589	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! With regard to this patient supply, the costs have been discussed several times. I contributed to the discussion in the Committee by mentioning the family advisory services that ultimately have doctors and lawyers. After questions with experts, however, I have come to the conviction that the actual establishment of the binding patient presence in front of notaries, lawyers or legal staff of the patient's representatives should be carried out, as stated in the law, because it is about the establishment of a certificate and therefore also about liability. However, family counsellors and other counsellors can, as before, also assist in preparing a binding patient provision. In particular, the psychosocial aspect can be developed. My colleagues Maria Theresia Fekter and Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer have already explained how delicate this law matter is, how sensitive this decision is and would be to each of us. It's about deciding about your own life and your own death. To decide something in the future with the experience of the past is almost superhuman. Those of us know how they or they will feel in certain situations and what needs will be present at that time. After all, the drive for life is one of the strongest impulses in us and usually becomes felt only in life-threatening situations. A need seems to me to be present with everyone, Mr Hakl has already mentioned it, namely the need for the dignity of life and death. That is why the experience report is to be welcomed after three years, because this aspect... [[The microphone is out of place and the speaker can no longer be heard in the plenary room.]] [[Call the ÖVP – towards the Bureau –: The tone is gone! Voluntary Time Limitation!]] That is why the experience report is to be welcomed after three years, because this experience report will be a mirror of our civil society to what extent we are able to take into account the actual needs of patients and not just the social environment. We of the ÖVP will always focus on this ethically high claim.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10626	Mrs Turkovic-Wendl, the next speaker, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10650	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It has happened to me at committee meetings for the first time, in the short time I have been in Parliament, so that I had the impression that a law is really in our heart here and that we are looking for a decent solution. I mean the following: Can one put feelings, fears, concerns in a very decisive, perhaps the most crucial moment of his life in a law? - Then the answer will be no. But we must strive to find a framework that contains as many conditions as possible that lead us well at this moment. This expression of will per futuro is something we probably cannot foresee. If I consider: If I had to determine a patient assignment now, I would hesitate and probably not make it. It must, however, be made if we are able to see and judge, so that it can help us at this crucial time when we can no longer determine about ourselves. I am therefore very grateful for the fact that this law, which we are trying to do today, allows for a binding and a considerable order, that we can have a very precise information from the doctor in the course of the mandatory procedure, and that we can also take time and deal with this delicate moment in our lives. I also think it is right that, if we have decided, this will take place in a proper form – secured by lawyer or patient lawyer. There are very many delicate moments in it, such as the desire to reject the diet. We need to distinguish here between care, i.e. if the manual administration of food is carried out, and artificial nutrition. All these delicate points address this bill, and I believe that the law will help to support the self-determination of patients and to protect them decisively through good medical and legal information from abuse of the patient.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10693	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10714	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very comprehensive counsellor, a book, one can say, to the patient's provision of the Lower Austrian patient and care attorney's office, and this contains a striking subtitle, which reads: The patient's forward-looking self-determination. Today we are dealing with a very delicate and sensitive issue – that has already been explained by Maria Fekter in detail – because this self-determination must be guaranteed without any influence. People want quality of life, dignity and self-determination until the last. In the event of loss of self-determination, decisions should now be taken in a binding manner, which treatment measures should not be put in place – except, of course, active death aid. What problems of patient provision have been there so far? – Up to now, the applicable legal status did not contain any precise instructions for action in the treatment of doctors and other stakeholders such as nurses and relatives. Special problems arose in detail such as the formal and content standards of patient provision, the ratio of patient availability to other legal framework conditions for medical treatment and the effectiveness of patient provision, i.e. the duration of validity. On the one hand, these legal shortcomings caused patients to be insecure, and on the other hand, they asked the treating doctor or the treating doctor about complex, ethically difficult issues that she or he had to decide on in medical responsibility, for example, regarding judgment and decision-making capacity. Finally, family members were affected, who were often burdened with insoluble problems in addition. I think this new law on patient care is an important step in our health care, and I would like to conclude with a quote from our Mrs. Federal Minister, who said: With this new law, we are guiding Europe. I would like to thank all the institutions, such as the patient attorney's office, the doctors, the hospice movement that has conducted this dialogue in recent years, and above all I would like to thank the two Federal Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10760	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10781	Mr President. Dear ministers! For example, if you look at the situation in Israel with former Prime Minister Sharon, who for months after several brain operations seems to have been in a coma irresistible, then the question is: Where does medical art end, where does medical must end, and where is the will to be considered? It is quite clear according to criminal law: The doctor must use the maximum. If he does not use it, he can be displayed by anyone at any time, and if he also shortens life by only one minute, he is due. I think, however, that is not the wish of many patients who often feel that their suffering is pointless, and I think you have to give the patient the opportunity, at times when they first understand what they are signing, and secondly, to know what might happen to them to express their will, namely: What happens to me and my body? – I think that is simply a point of human dignity. This patient provision is a better response than the Dutch model, which is imitated, for example, in Belgium, possibly also in other countries, namely active death aid, because it is seen that in Holland alone, unacceptable people are suddenly declared victims of death by expert bodies. 3 200 deaths due to premature lives in Holland show me that it is already much more problematic than one believes to have the so-called patient will recorded by third parties. There, I think, is a patient equipment that is made clean and correct, an essential step towards more human dignity and towards more patient will.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10820	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10842	Mr President. Ladies ministers! High house! Finally, a short, thoughtful bow. To this end, a text by Olga Flor has come to my mind: ‘Worry and diapers’. Quote: The final acceptance of the body is then only more of a formality. – A text about the beginning of life and even more about what it calls “functional death”. It is about the faster decay in age and its treatment. – And these thoughts are also related to the binding patient provision to be adopted today. In the discussion process in the committee – and I was also in the specialist committee of my party, where experts advised us – it was always about an expectation, one goal: more autonomy, more security. In response to our questions, not only the Bar Association President Benn-Ibler, but also medical lawyers and the Hospice Movement have said: No, let's not be fooled! There will no longer be autonomy in full understanding of the word, nor will there be any more security. This has been an important response to me, because in this patient experience, in which we want to associate, there is also a trace of self-examination of the human being, and before that we should actually take into consideration – even if, as I mean, we are living in an insurance society, in an Assecurance Society, where we want to insure ourselves against all the illustrious that life can still bring in the end, and want to have in a review of the reconnaissance of being also for the end of life, which may come. Dignity dying, I think, is not a question of a 100 or 200 € expensive act, it is measured by the ability to maintain the permissiveness process at a high cultural and social level. So be as modest with the law and its expectations as it is for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10875	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10896	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying that, given the scope of this law, I am sorry that social democracy has not gone through this process. All three speakers of the SPÖ, at least from my point of view, have not been able to be credible here, why they reject the law, because only the cost argument, when it comes to such a subject, should not be striking. We are talking here about the individual right of every human being to determine whether he wishes to extend his life by all means available to medicine or whether he chooses to say the way: If my body alone is no longer able to keep me alive, then nature should take its course and then I should be able to die in dignity. I would also like to mention that Mrs Partik-Pablé owes it to me that this right now applies to healthy people. The first approach was that one can only establish a patient supply if one is already at the beginning of a disease whose end is predictable. – But now it is possible to think about the moment that will come for all of us once, even in young years, the moment of our death. In my opinion, it is already unfortunate if the main argument of rejection is these 100 or 200 €. [[Abg. May. Worm: Registration!]] As far as registration is concerned, various proposals have already been made. In any case, from my point of view: I think this approach to connect the e-card with it is very positive, because this will make it possible to know very soon that there is a patient presence. As has already been said before: In emergencies, then, when it comes to intensive care, of course, it is not asked, but only when a disease is going to last. In conclusion: I mean, it is the individual right of every human being to determine his own death. This patient supply is a step in this direction, but also – that is very important to us from the BZÖ – on the clear statement that we will never stand for active death aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e10936	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We therefore vote on the draft law in 1381 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and others have an amendment concerning § 5, § 6, § 7 para. 1 and § 10 para. 1, each with the title, inserted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who give their consent to it to give a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority of the majority at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 1381. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 175.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on the possibility of establishing patient facilities at the district courts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:33:51]] 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1334, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Takeover Act, the Trade Code, the Stock Exchange Act, the Conversion Act and the Division Act and adopting a Federal Act on the Exclusion of Minority Companies (Convention Law 2006 – OTHER 2006) (1382 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11052	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Jarolim. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11080	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Amending Act is about to be discussed, and you all probably know the development in the Böhler-Uddeholm case, which was in itself a trigger for this discussion. We from the SPÖ have tried to put together an expert round even after the last meeting of the Justice Committee, to invite you all to come to a legislative decision that meets at least European standards, since it is a matter of an EU directive which is to be implemented. Unfortunately, however, we have failed with this proposal, and I must say: I have rarely experienced what sustainability arguments were simply and simply ignored by the government parties. They simply did not want to see this and therefore prevented a discussion about it. I can also say that there are relatively few legislative proposals in which there has been such a unanimous rejection by groups particularly relevant in the field of justice: Rejection by the Supreme Court and also by the Bar Association, which speaks of the fact that such a right of takeover is actually the goal being placed on the head. What's this about? The Federal Chancellor is always talking about the developed capital market and about how much Austria should be in the foreground here and how much we strive to play a pioneering role in Europe, but with this strange draft the opposite happens. And he tells us again and again, we want to be a developed stock market. What's going on? If a small shareholder, a shareholder who is involved in a society, is confronted with the sudden change in mastery relations in this society from today to tomorrow, then he should be able to react. An example: In a company that manufactures car tyres, there is a dominant shareholder who has nothing to do with it. Suddenly, the rule in this company takes over another car tire manufacturer, and it is clear that the company will play a different role here in Austria in the future than in the past, because one knows that about an overcapacity of car tyres is on the market and such an acquisition, even if it is an enemy, can also lead to the simply closing of locations here. Now, of course, the shareholder should have the opportunity to say, if, in fact, of his original investment, where he thought I was willing to invest in this industry, nothing is left and he sees that suddenly, for example, a German car tire manufacturer will take over the company and possibly close it: I don't want to be with you anymore! I would like to sell my shares, on the amount to which the new, for example this German company, has acquired the shares itself. And that's not possible, Mr. Molterer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The AMAG is not going to do this!]] This is not because you simply don't want it because Mr. Molterer may say or Mr. Schüssel says: We do not want to hurt ourselves close to those standing, so we do the following. There are studies in Austria – and we all know that – that has even expressed the Commission of Takeovers in its extreme restraint. There are general meetings, and that is the key, shareholder meetings, where you can see who is there. And it is usually so in Austria that between 12 and 15 percent of those present have the majority, because it is just that no more than 25 to 30 percent come. Therefore, one should also assume that control occurs at 15 to 20 percent. But that's not true, because you're presenting us with a draft that says: Under 26 or under 30 percent, we never talk about a majority. This means, of course, that you can acquire up to 26 percent of shares in a company without the obligation to pay the small shareholders the same amount, so that they can get out of the company that will no longer be theirs in the future, and that only because you are decreed by law: There is no mastery of up to 26 or 30 percent, even if it is twenty times a mastery. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: This is European standard!]] . This European standard, Mr Ikrath, does not exist, but the European standard says that one has to look very closely at the country in which the majority are given. In England, 30 percent – I give you the right – are a majority, because 50 to 60 percent are present there. It's exactly half in Austria. To transfer the English standard now to Austrian conditions simply means to try to give a simple answer to a complex question or simply to bend, break and make a law that is nothing but the operation of a interest group. This is a shame for the country, because of course it is so that you look very closely: What happens in Austria now? – If we fall back to the banana republic and if you say that it doesn't matter anyway, because of course you can buy up to 30 percent at any time, then this is a very depressing policy. [[Abg. May. Control: So no! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. May. Controller: Always the Banana Republic!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, most of you will not know what it is about, I assume. But if the Supreme Court and the Bar Association say that's the worst thing there can be at all, that means putting the law or the target on the head, then in this country it can probably only go more so that the gentleman like bowl and molderer will implement. It is certainly not in the interest of the country. It is in line with your general policy and it is in line with the fact that in this European Presidency we are not going to get anything further than just blaming. We would have deserved more, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11199	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11220	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! I could now say that it is also in line with Mr Jarolim's statement that the SPÖ is once again beginning to have no economic competence. - May be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also particularly remarkable that Mr Jarolim was not present in the Committee on Justice at this item on the agenda, and that Mr Puswald, who represented this position there, obviously took our arguments into account, was taught a better one and is no longer speaking at all. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oh, that's it?]] But I would like to repeat this small private body in economic practice once again for Mr Jarolim and who else might be interested in it. If we are talking about the 'Banana Republic' here, I would at least try to see who in Europe has the thresholds for controlling participations, and I can now offer some more 'banana republics': Germany 30 percent, France 33 percent, United Kingdom – already mentioned – 30 percent, Portugal 33 to 50 percent, Switzerland 33 percent, Finland 67 percent, Norway 40 percent, Denmark 33 to 50 percent. Spain is the only European country – so far to the European standard and to banana republics – which currently has a lower threshold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Furthermore, Mr Jarolim – please listen now, because you have also spoken about the law on occasions – has implemented an EU directive with this new law. This is, of course, an occasion, but an occasion that we must take into account. We have also implemented a knowledge of the Constitutional Court – this is also an occasion that we respect by taking this knowledge into account. Thirdly, we have taken into account the experience gained from the practice of the previous law on takeover, and have further strengthened what was good in the novelle and corrected what did not work so well. We have thus settled the responsibility of a legislator who has economic expertise and economic practice. This distinguishes us fundamentally from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this law – and I thank the judicial body and its extremely intensive and committed staff – we have achieved one thing: We have – Mr Jarolim, please do not telephone, but listen, in the right place! – strengthen the Austrian core shareholders by creating legal certainty and investment security as the Constitutional Court of Justice of us wanted. We have also ensured, through syndicate or voting agreements, that we will allow existing Austrian core shareholders to reach the border of an equalisation syndicate in the future, that Austrian core shareholders can continue to exist and be secured in the companies on a continuous and sustainable basis. And the small shareholders also benefit from this because it involves stable value development and rising stock prices as well as corresponding dividend distributions. And we have – I haven't even heard of the SPÖ, which supposedly writes about the interests of the small shareholders so much on their flags – especially the position of the small shareholders thereby massively strengthened by us – I didn't want to emphasize that now, it's almost unpleasant to remind me of it again and again; [[Abg. Ellmauer: At the BAWAG!]] You know it anyway and will hear it often enough – the 15 percent discount for small shareholders in case of mandatory offers has been deleted. In the future, every investor will be treated the same way if there is a mandatory offer, whether it is a large or a smaller one. That is the policy of this government, that is economic competence, and there the SPÖ – and possibly the opposition in general – can still learn a lot! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11301	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11326	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker explained in his statement that Mr Puswald would share the opinion of the ÖVP and would no longer speak today. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That's wrong. Mr Puswald will speak on the agenda item 24.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11378	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11400	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not hold a private body on the Takeover Act, but about as much as Mr Ikrath in his announced private body I am also able to tell you here, from my perspective. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can explain it to Mr. Molterer!]] I somehow thought he was a skilled man and would also express this. I would like to say to you my assessment of the law on acquisitions and therefore also the opinion of the Green Group and of our vote. We will reject this law. Mr. Ikrath, Austria is not a banana republic, because in Austria no bananas are growing – that is certain – but in Austria apples and pears are growing, and therefore apples and pears should not be mixed. If you have presented the percentage limits in the respective European countries, then they are correct, because these are absolute limits, but what you have not said is that, of course, there are completely different structures on the stock market in Austria than in the countries you have listed here, and that it is really true in Austria – and so much I understand from the economy too, I do not have to be a top manager like you to recognize this – that you are often already holding a share of 15 percent, which you can have control over a company, because the structure is quite another. [[Abg. Neudeck: Go, why? - But go!]] And what are you doing here? – You have to make an open statement of the whole story. This is an opportunity legislation where an EU directive is taken as an opportunity to legislate on occasions. Now I've been told a hundred times: This has nothing to do with Böhler-Uddeholm and the Fries group!, nothing has to do with it at all, but it could soon be cases that are similar. I'm just saying, Post – for example. And now you're saying, That's great! We have two political groups who say they understand a lot of economics. – Yes, they understand a lot about the economy, because they manage the economy. They operate the economy, the big investors – and not the small shareholders, who are taken by this law of scope and the opportunities for action. I am very much in favour of directive implementation, and often it is so late that it is too late to make corrections, but in this case there is nowhere in there a directive where there is, 26 percent it must be – not at all! – but that is a pure interpretation, a purely lobbyist representation of these government groups. That's why: not with us! We do not mix apples and pears, we remain pure and reject this law of takeover. In my opinion, I am guided by a real private body, namely the Privatissimum of the Head of the Takeover Commission – and it rejects this law. You can read it everywhere. One can also meet with him; he is very willing to give one to those ladies and gentlemen who need a private body.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11466	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11487	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stoisits, you are simplifying – as always, we are already used to it by you. It is true that there are general meetings, with only 15 percent present, but the things that are being dealt with there are irrelevant things. If there are important things that make decisive choices, then more people come and then it is not possible for you to be overrun. And by the way, the small shareholders are better placed, because they get more when they take over because the parcel deposit is lost. Unfortunately, you failed to mention God because you once again only represent things one-sided. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we would really overshadow anyone sitting here, and the spectators who were not in the judicial committee, if we were to talk in detail about these laws that we are discussing here. That is why I would just like to comment on a few points, namely – it has already been tailor-made –: We have had this government template today for decision-making because reforms to the 1999 Takeover Act have been implemented because there have been problems that belong to very simple repairs. For example, undetermined legislative concepts are defined, and the relevant control concept is more objective by introducing a threshold value. Secondly, we need to implement an EU directive that requires that we set a benchmark. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: But not this indicative value!]] That's right, yes; You don't need to point your finger at me like that. I am not saying this directive, but we must set a benchmark. We have now done so in compliance with this EU directive. The fact that you do not agree with this guide is on a different sheet. But, as I said, An EU directive was transposed. Thirdly, this has already been mentioned, we come to an understanding of the Constitutional Court, where we can already imagine what the Constitutional Court will have to complain about. And this has nothing to do with an event legislation at all, but for these three important reasons there has been this need for change. I would like to mention one thing – or a few things: The correct and also important thing is that the typical Austrian core shareholder is protected. – This is the first. Secondly, The Commission will be more justified. That is good, too, because you already know what you are about on the basis of the law. So far, the Commission's possibilities of intervention have been called too diffuse by the Constitutional Court, and that is now also being changed. The Commission also says when there is a dominant influence. – These are loud things that are important to the security of shareholders. Or: The Commission can also determine the rest of the voting right if, for example, the compulsory offer is not published, and similar things. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You should not keep talking about the fact that there is an occasion legislation, namely that without a reason laws will be changed, but take note that we wanted more legal certainty, and this will be achieved with the decision-making of this government template today. Actually, I think you should agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11530	Mrs Bundesminister Mag has spoken from the government bank. Gastinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11551	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My previous speakers have it has already been mentioned several times: One of the reasons why we are voting on this Takeover Act today – there are three reasons – is that we are on one side until 20. In May, the Takeover Directive must be transposed into national law, which is very important because non-implementation in this very specific case could also be associated with very high financial consequences for the Republic of Austria. I would like to point this out once again. As you know, as you know, all those who are familiar with the legal matter, the Constitutional Court took a decision in December of the previous year, according to which it will deal with the Takeover Act, and has already announced that there may be concerns about the certainity of certain terms in the Takeover Act. That was also the reason why we wanted to introduce this bill to the Constitutional Court before its final decision, which we are expected to have to take in June of this year. But the third, very important point – and this one has already been mentioned several times by my previous speakers – is certain that in Austria we wanted to ensure legal certainty in the case of larger stock transactions. Why? – Of course, we also want to protect the Austrian core shareholders. We have a special structure in Austria at our listed companies, according to which we have a lot of companies in which Austrian core shareholders are represented with a percentage of 25 percent. It has also been important with this law to protect these Austrian core shareholders and, above all, to ensure legal certainty here in the future. We have therefore separated ourselves from the current legal situation, which is particularly linked to a very high individual case-law for the economy itself, which would be expressed euphemistically. Why “Individual Justice ”? Because, if you have now invested in Austria with us, you did not know, for example, if you have acquired 11 or 12 or 15 percent of a company's share capital, whether the Takeover Commission will then not tell you that you have actually acquired practically a majority of the shares and thus a control over the company, even though you never wanted to. Of course, the situation was the same, especially in passive control acquisition, where you could do less, for example, if you had a stock package of 15 to 16 percent and were, by selling another major shareholder at once, the one who then held a majority, and then at one time were forced to make a takeover offer to all the others from one day to the other, without providing for it financially. So you see that the current legal situation was really linked to a lot of uncertainties. However, the Federal Government is due to legal certainty here, legal certainty also for the economic location Austria, in order to enable investment in the economic location Austria. As I said, The 26 percent threshold, where we now assume that a control acquisition is possible here in Austria, results from the Austrian core shareholders with 25 percent plus one percent. We have also foreseen that if someone now has more than 26 percent share capital, which is to rest beyond voting rights, unless one gets to the committee on takeover requests for certain conditions so that one can also use these voting rights. And a similar arrangement In particular, we have also provided for passive control acquisitions, so that we also ensure legal certainty here. I believe that this law, as it now stands, will certainly contribute a great deal to improving Austria's economic location. And above all, I also believe that, as an economic location in Austria, we will certainly have a very good place in European competition, especially with regard to the stock market and the stock market. Of course, it was also important to us – for all of us are of course also the small shareholders – that we have now removed the 50 percent discount for small shareholders in the takeover offer. This is important because, as Mr Ikrath has said, we have now done – or was it Mrs Partik-Pablé?; they both argued in this direction, which I think is very correct – to the small shareholders show that they are as valuable to us as the big shareholders. As far as the main negotiating presence is concerned, of course, it is also up to the representatives of the small shareholders to ensure greater HV representations here. It cannot, however, be the responsibility of the legislator or the State to intervene in the economy in a manner which regulates the economy. It is important to me that we create framework conditions for the economy, but within these conditions the economy must be able to develop freely. In this sense I hope for your approval and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11628	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11649	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! According to the statements made by the Federal Minister, it has become clear that in the field of takeover law we represent a completely different assessment, a completely different position. I would like to refer once again to Mr Ikrath. Mr Ikrath compared apples to pears – colleague Stoisits mentioned it. I also stick to that, Mr Ikrath, which was an absolutely implausible comparison. There are absolutely different structures in the European Stock Exchange area. Austria cannot be compared with the stock exchange square in London or Paris. The question you have to ask here is quite another, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the BZÖ! To whom does this scheme serve? – This regulation serves some large shareholders and big capital, but not the small investors, and that is an essential reason why we reject this proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ikrath said that legal certainty and investment security would be improved. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: How did this look at the ÖGB in BAWAG?]] You're asking how it was in the BAWAG? – How was it with Mr Finanzminister, who has been aware of the Caribbean business for five years in the framework of financial market supervision? Why has the Minister of Finance not intervened in this area? – The debt, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the field of the Ministry of Finance. Let me say this with all the clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Violent calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We will discuss the BAWAG in the afternoon. [[Abg. Scheibner: Cabaret tire!]] Federal Minister Grasser must finally fulfill his responsibility. This is a problem we have to solve in Austria. We cannot solve this through the right to take over, this can be solved by his voluntary resignation, which we will expect today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if bank expert Ikrath were to listen to politician Ikrath, he would be ashamed. More is not to be added to this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There were massive rejections for this law. Mr Partik-Pablé accused us of acting unilaterally. Mrs Colleague, I am now quoting a few comments. University professor Dr. Peter Doralt said in the “profile”: The legislator is governed by special interests. I quote the Supreme Court: According to the OGH, a fundamental assumption of the draft that an Austrian listed company with less than 30 percent cannot be dominated is incorrect. An opinion of the Austrian Bar Association states: The sacrifice of the central concern of the right of acquisition for the benefit of particular interests would be unforgivable and would mean, for Austria, a relapse from an internationally respected model law into the status of the capital market-political crab. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and BZÖ! These are statements made in the context of the review procedure. In conclusion, we: Takeover comes from takeover. With this law you have taken over!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11741	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11762	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that even more clearly one cannot document the attitude and the basic attitude of the SPÖ than the appearance of Mr Maier has shown. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] It is an example of how this red felt from SPÖ and ÖGB with double morality and double-beddedness tries to spread sand into the eyes of people in this country, to preach water and to drink wine. And for that, you could still take a lot of beautiful sayings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government under Chancellor Schüssel does everything to increase the country's international reputation, through wise and forward-looking economic policies, especially responsible, through laws that raise the reliability, reputation of our home country Austria, which are committed to promoting economic location, legal and investment security. And especially those who always call for intensifications, who are always too little and who scream after the protection of the little ones, are dealing with the sparring, the sourly earned membership contribution of the ÖGB members in a way that mocks all these beautiful explanations. What is this SPÖ doing? – Sickness, bad talk, damage our country and its good reputation abroad. There is evidence of the economic incompetence and inability of the SPÖ to operate. In this network, in this red felt, characterized by double morality, problems of credibility are developing, which are in the truest sense of the word inconceivable! This swamp drives flowers: Here the red trade unionists vying against the interception hunters, but the BAWAG finances these transactions. Another example: The SPÖ-led BAWAG reduces €1.4 billion in the Caribbean, and to cover these billion losses, the ÖGB deals with the strike fund so negligently that it brings it in as a security. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You take your tips away! We're not at the emergency yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Each member of the union would have spent some €1,000 on this, or about 230 000 pensioners could have been given the minimum pension for two years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are a union member, Mr. Ledolter?]] Examples of this arrogance of the exercise of power continue with the ARBÖ. And there are also colleagues of the SPÖ in high and important functions. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that even today's debate shows very clearly that the SPÖ – at its head is Dr. Gusenbauer – does not care about the members' members' money and their members' money, that “heavy capitalism” is being financed, and that double morality and unscrupulousness, as they are practiced there, are not done to signal such a thing as “start-up” with economic incompetence and recklessness in dealing with the interests of trade union members! On the contrary! And that's what Dr. Gusenbauer should write to the main book. This party under this leadership will hopefully not trust the electorate in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11840	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11862	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier has led us far away from the subject of Takeover Act with his claim that Minister of Finance Grasser is guilty of the bad business of BAWAG. Perhaps he should have known something in the context of financial market supervision, I don't know, but that's how you would say Vlaschek is guilty that the "consumer" has entered because he also knew that the "consumer" is bad. You can’t do it as easily as you can, and so easily you can’t ‘ take over’ us with a law of readmission. I imagine now that I would be – this is not possible, because the BAWAG belongs to 100 percent of the ÖGB, as we all know – 20 percent BAWAG co-owners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal, you would continue to be allowed to write in the BAWAG newspaper because your articles are very good. I don't know if you get as much money for that as Mr Elsner received from the BAWAG. However, they write quite well in the BAWAG newspaper, which can be held here. [[Abg. Broukal: Thank you!]] You would also write if I were involved there. So let's assume that I have 20 percent of the BAWAG, and now the ÖGB makes one of the usual in-sich business and sells shares overpriced to its own foundation. Do I have to make a takeover offer for the entire bank? How do you see that? – No, that wouldn’t be a business! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yes, perhaps for the ÖGB, but certainly not for the small shareholder, who suddenly comes into a dominant situation and has never wanted it at all. I find the 30 percent voting rights to be quite positive and nothing that can be criticized. Mr Ikrath has well described this in international comparison. I also think it has happened that one has set a threshold in which one says that in this case there is no bid to take over, but the voting rights simply rest in order not to be dominant. I do not quite understand Mr Stoisits, who is not here now. She said that with 15 percent voting rights, a stock company can be dominated in Austria. This can only be done if the other shareholders do not come to the Annual Shareholders' Meeting or if I am represented in the Supervisory Board as the ÖGB at BAWAG, but otherwise this is not possible. I also think it is positive that it is a preliminary... – Mr. colleague, it may be hard to tell you, but they are not that high either. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Hairthrowing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I've never heard anything like that.]] Mr. Col., I have listened to you. Their speech was only party-political for a lawyer, it was not a legal knowledge contained in it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That is completely incorrect!]] I think it is positive that there can be a preliminary procedure in which one can come to a legal view without having to wait long procedures. There is a rapid procedure to be followed. This is also a security for shareholders, and it would be good if the SPÖ would also agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e11956	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1382 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. [[14:12:07]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1155, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Austria on the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism, the cross-border cooperation between the Crime and illegal migration, as well as statements by the Republic of Austria and Joint Declaration (1362 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12010	This means we can reach the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12038	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! With today's bill, we are adopting an important treaty between the Benelux countries and Germany, France, Spain and Austria. This Treaty is an important development of cooperation under the Schengen Implementing Convention with a view to improving the fight against cross-border crime, terrorism and illegal migration. So there are serious forms of crime and no bagatellan occasions. International crime can only be combated internationally, can only be successfully combated by close, internationally oriented police work. International crime has set up a network worldwide, and a close network between police organisations must be set up to meet this challenge in the area of crime. It is therefore intended to enable and implement enhanced more intensive cross-border police cooperation. The priorities of the new powers of cooperation are as follows: Storage and exchange of DNA files, storage and exchange of roof tylyscopic data, collection of data from vehicle registers, transmission of information to prevent terrorist offences, aviation security officers, fight against illegal migration, posting of document consultants to countries classified as source or transit states, mutual support in return, assistance in major events, disasters and serious accidents. It is important that all accesses are first made anonymous and only when a hit is made the requesting national contact point is informed. The Convention contains extensive provisions on data protection due to the sensitivity of the data. All data protection concerns could be resolved in advance by this law, and thus we can rightly claim that this Treaty creates conditions for greater security in Europe, for greater security in Austria and for people in our country. Mrs. Minister, thank you and your team for the commitment that this contract has come about.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12075	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12096	High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! The basic philosophy of the SPÖ was in terms of internal security and it is that it gives all those initiatives, projects and innovations the consent to improve security standards in Austria or the European Union. At the same time, however, it is important to us that the fundamental rights of citizens are not cut down – it is important to consider them simply. In the case of the Prümer contract, thanks to the SPÖ, it succeeded in finding a meaningful solution. Of course, we are committed to a deepening of cross-border cooperation, especially in the fight against terrorism, and this must also be a key concern of the EU Member States. A first step has been taken with the seven states that have joined this Treaty. Of course, we would have liked more countries to have shown interest in it, and we would also have liked the Austrian Presidency to have been more successful and to involve more EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are ratifying this treaty. A fundamental requirement for us to give social democrats the consent is that comprehensive data protection is guaranteed. We have therefore insisted on an in-depth examination of the matter by the Data Protection Council. It has also developed a very comprehensive opinion, which has subsequently been implemented on the initiative of the Social Democrats. I would therefore like to thank the members of the Data Protection Council for their work. I mean, we have achieved a lot together in the sense of data protection. It was particularly important for us not to create a common European DNA file, but to build up each national state's own DNA file. If there is a DNA trace following a crime, the respective authority can perform an anonymous query at the other DNA database and only receives a response if there is a hit or not. This means that the so-called Hit/No Hit procedure is used. If there is a hit, then it is normal to proceed according to the legal aid procedure already used. Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Group in the Committee on the Interior has looked very closely at all of this in the BMI's detection service, i.e. data collection, data evaluation, data transmission, as provided for in the Prümer contract. I would like to maintain and regret the fact that Mr Pilz has been removed from the list of speakers in the short term and will then speak in my opinion – that the Greens obviously have not been so well informed, for otherwise it cannot be explained that they made completely wrong statements at the last meeting of the Committee on the Interior last week, although the Green Representative in the Data Protection Council, that is to say, agreed to this regulation in an opinion. Nevertheless, the Greens in the Committee on the Interior have spoken about the abolition of data protection in Austria in this area. High house! I'll hold on to this. That's a smooth misevaluation! Here a certain populism pervades, or, whatever might be possible, the information was perhaps not available to the appropriate extent, or it is simply ignorance. – After a truly intense examination and cooperation, we give our consent to this agreement. One more sentence, Mrs. Federal Minister: There are still so many contracts, so many more initiatives that we work together, little if there are not enough executive officials to implement all these measures if the staff level is further eroded and the executive does not have the necessary resources at its disposal. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not right, Parnigoni! Why do you say that?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my respect belongs to the staff of the executive, who also give their best under such conditions and ensure the maintenance of security in this country, because the right to security is of course a fundamental right, and this must be safeguarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12148	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12170	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure would normally not provide for this, but we have now heard two speeches from the Austrian People's Party. I wonder, Where does the Social Democratic vote remain? . In this call for action, Mr Murauer, there is no longer any security to be felt. [[Abg. Murauer: The Parnigoni is not part of the ÖVP!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] In February 2005, the SPÖ decided to remove, in security policy, in human rights policy, in art policy, in integration policy, in Europe's policy, in Turkey's policy and in some other policy areas, all the attacks of the government parties, in particular the EIA by simply taking over the position of the EIA. [[Abg. May. Darabos: You don't believe that yourself!]] We have been experiencing this in all the committees involved in these matters since then, and I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, that was not a wise decision at last. You only have to look into the recent history. They have once tried to fight the blue “forge” as a social-democratic “smith”. At that time, there was another excuse, namely: The blue “forge ” is getting bigger and bigger, threatening us, we are afraid, what should we do? Now the orange “forge” is on the ground, and before it stands the social democratic “forge” and says: Yes, you are perfectly right, we have this position of government! - That's supposed to be the beginning of a turn? Is that supposed to be a new policy? This should be an alternative? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now going to justify this on the basis of the Prümer contract. The Prümer contract has an Article 14, which reads: “Transfer of personal data”. The occasion is football. The real security problem, which is enough in Austria to disembark fundamental rights, to expand the surveillance state, is called international football. That's how it's argued. But if you read Article 14 as you would like to agree with it in connection, as it will be interpreted, interpreted and executed by the authorities in the future, it is: ‘For the purpose of... The Parties shall communicate to each other, both on request and on their own initiative, data on persons where... other facts justify the assumption that those persons ‘are a threat to public security and order...’. Four completely undetermined terms, four concepts purely official discretion! ‘Other facts’. We asked the Committee: What are the “other facts ” that justify acceptance? The answer is: Well, other facts than those we've been talking about here. Then we asked: Who knows in advance that public peace and security could be threatened? - Well, that's something the officials have to estimate. In other words, officials must assess whether, at some point, there could be a risk to public security and order in connection with a major cross-border event, if other facts justify the assumption that this person could again become a threat to public security and order. – And that is enough to transfer cross-border personal data without anyone suspect of a specific crime to other police authorities, to other authorities?- Oh, my God! Then I asked: Is that right? Are these just big sporting events? Are these only events relating to European Council meetings? Could that be a meeting of Attac, of Greenpeace? Could that be a case like Genoa? Could this be a case like the "Volxtheater-Karawane"? Could this be an international union meeting, a mobilization against the Services Directive, or anything else? Is all that imaginable? – The answer: Yes. Yeah, that's imaginable. All these are major events with a cross-border reference. Ladies and gentlemen! What you are preparing here, what you have signed, is nothing but a free letter for international blacklists for people who are ahead of the government and their friends in Europe. They sign a law that allows black listings and the exchange of personal data for the creation of black lists across Europe. They have not been able to face this objectively. Mr Parnigoni explained to the APA only one thing: “More flop than top” is that. “More flop than top” in the new social democratic security language. Why is it “More Flop than Top ”? – Because only seven states have agreed on black lists and not the entire European Union. – Member Parnigoni has complained as the only politician in this House that not all 25 already exchange black lists. So far, we are that social democracy is not just behind the government on fundamental legal issues, it is adapting and trying to make itself unknowing, but that it is already escalating and saying: Yes, what the government can do – we demand even more. We do not demand the Black Lists of Seven States, but of 25. We do not demand the little black slyings, but the great black slyings! This is social democracy today! That's the pre-election campaign. This is the foretaste of what it means when a “red turn” is about to happen and when Alfred Gusenbauer declares his party to be clear. I wish you many start-ups in the sense of Austrian human rights, fundamental rights, civil rights, fair asylum procedures and the freedom of art. I wish that this political bill, which is at least at the same level as that of Löschnak, Schlögl and others more than a decade ago, does not go up for a second time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12235	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12258	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Parnigoni that, unlike Mr Parnigoni and Mr Parnigoni, the Data Protection Council, as Mr Parnigoni himself has corrected, is not a single party body, but is represented by all the parties in the National Council. It is also very amusing to look at Mr Pilz's statements more intensively and at the same time to know that the Green Representative in the Data Protection Council has not had any concerns in any way regarding data protection at European level. Perhaps the Greens are allowed to exchange with their colleagues, but this should not be the party line. On the accusation of Mr Pilz, who claimed that the Social Democrats had been, so to speak, a subordinate advance organisation of the ÖVP since 2005, I would rather say: This is based on our constructive government work, where there is sometimes a flashing of the recognition that what we are doing here is good, and the SPÖ is therefore also carrying things – in order to be able to say that it has also been there. When it comes to things that the population fully supports, it would indeed not be politically wise for the SPÖ to say that it is against it. So you have to put a certain pedaler tactics from the SPÖ there. But now on the real issue, namely the Prümer contract. What Mr Pilz said about this is nothing but the repetition of a discussion that we had already had in 2005 in the creation of the so-called Hooligan file. At the time, we were able to learn all these conspiracy theories and black paintings here in this hall. In my opinion, it is far more important that the European Union – and this has been done with this Prüm Treaty – is concerned about the problems of the security of the population in Austria, but also throughout the Union. Despite all of this, we have to say so, although this word does not necessarily sound beautiful – of terrorism, of cross-border crime and of illegal migration. It is therefore necessary to intensify the cooperation of the European States. There is something to be done about Protecting crime is always the best, namely information, and the faster you get information, the better it is. That is why we fully support the intensification of the data exchange. On the one hand, this is about DNA data, but it is also about data from motor vehicles and about fingerprints. In the sense of data protection, it is already very important to us – that is what data protection has rightly brought in; this has been taken into account in the Prümer contract – that it cannot be so that all DNA data can be made publicly available to the authorities immediately, so to speak. In my opinion, this hit/no-hit procedure is a bit more concrete, but it is really a matter of essential. This process works so that you can provide a DNA sample from any area. This is compared to other samples – and only when there is a hit, that is, a hit by taking up the same DNA traces somewhere else, will the international police cooperation, in the context of the official and legal assistance that has been available for a long time, provide personal data. This is a very essential factor – and this also fully meets the requirements of the Data Protection Council. Also with regard to the vehicle registration: This is not a question of so-called bagatella offences, such as false parks or simple administrative violations, that you are immediately being persecuted internationally, but it is about gross crimes. As far as the big events are concerned, Mr Pilz – Mr Pilz is now, as had been, no longer in the hall, but I say it anyway –: Col. Pilz, go to international football games and look at the violence of these people there! I think then will They do not say here once again that it is not necessary to inform the country in which such a game takes place in advance of what people may come across its borders and there consciously and purposefully exert violence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12315	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12337	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this law, we today decide to further develop international police cooperation with seven EU countries. I see this as an important step towards safer Austria. I should like to congratulate Mr Prokop and Mr Wolfgang Schüssel on the conclusion of this Prüm contract. In this direction, there have already been advances from the German side, but they have been rejected by individual Schengen Member States. Now, during the Austrian Presidency, seven countries have succeeded in bringing together police cooperation. I see a great success in this – and the SPÖ itself has recognized this because it will agree with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] International terrorism, cross-border crime and illegal migration are problems that not only Austria has to deal with. It is therefore more than sensible to put together and unify resources of these individual cooperation countries. The cooperation model provides for as high a standard as possible in cooperation, particularly in the field of information exchange. In future, DNA profiles, vehicle data, fingerprints and personal data can be transmitted to the Member States and compared with each other. The desired information can be found in minutes on the computer of the investigative – and not as before after a few weeks, and then by post. In the future, each state can access the stored data directly to the persecution of crime. This, ladies and gentlemen, will have a huge positive impact on the investigation rate of crime. It would be desirable, however, that this cooperation between seven countries is the beginning of cooperation between all Schengen countries. We very much expect this Prüm Treaty to combat international crime, terrorism and illegal migration. It must be clear to all of us that there is an ever-increasing risk from these areas internationally. As a single state, however, we can only do something with restrictions, but the data from seven countries can give us a decisive advantage in the investigation work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and Federal Minister Prokop and Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel ensure that this will remain the same in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12406	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12427	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that a pre-election campaign has already been carried out has been noted in the remarks of Mr Pilz, who was not present at the meetings of the Data Protection Council. But he couldn't be present either because he's not a member. I am the only member of the High House Data Protection Council and may inform you, ladies and gentlemen, of the following: In the Data Protection Council, we had three very detailed meetings on this subject and have taken our criticisms unanimously. All political groups represented in the Data Protection Council jointly developed this position and also jointly communicated it to the Ministry of the Interior. The Green Group's representative was also involved in this decision-making – I attach great importance to this opinion! I therefore do not understand the argument of Mr Pilz; I do not understand the position of the Greens as a whole, because with this cooperation agreement between the police, as the first agreement at all, a legalisation of the data exchange is taking place! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In Europe, there was the following problem: Under the third pillar, ministers decide on cooperation offers, on information obligations, on mutual cooperation. National parliaments are not involved, but also national control authorities are not involved. – For the first time in this agreement, the task of independent data protection authorities is now normized! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the first time in Austria, the Data Protection Commission can review and intervene, ladies and gentlemen, and I see this as the great success of the Austrian data protectors! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] As my colleague, Pilz Pilz, has denounced black lists, I say quite openly: On the other hand, what does Pilz have if, in terms of condemned blackmailers from England, Poland, who come to football games in Germany, Switzerland or Austria, this information is exchanged between police co-operation agencies?- Oh, my God! This information is already available, however: With this law, legalisation and control are carried out by the Data Protection Commission, whether these data have been used in accordance with this Convention. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! As Vice-President of the Data Protection Council, I see the task of the Austrian Presidency as having an effect at European level on the fact that these data protection provisions, which are now standardised in this Convention, are also standardised in other third pillar conventions. We need more fundamental rights protection here, we need more security for the Austrian Europeans, Mrs Federal Minister. And it is the concern of the Socialist Group that you start appropriate initiatives at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, the following conclusion: The Austrian Data Protection Commission is now tasked with carrying out controls in this area. We support this with all the emphasis, only: There's no staff! There is a request from the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which has been assigned to the Constitutional Committee, which refers to this human deficit. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you here to provide the appropriate staff so that these checks can be carried out, otherwise the objectives of this Convention cannot be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12516	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12537	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You from the SPÖ can only do well that the Greens are now demarcating or demarcating themselves from you, even now, where you are so in the Bredouille. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] It will certainly only do you good if you join the reasonable policy made by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Too long you've applauded each other. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you know, just as everyone else here, that the Austrian population, especially as regards the fight against crime, does not in any way give the Greens confidence, because it knows very well that Members like Dr. Pilz or Mrs. Stoisits have a great desire to do everything in order not to catch cross-border criminals, but rather to let them work. In no way can the Austrian population vote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the black lists, which Mr Pilz has spoken about, are not the brave citizens who do not do anything to comply with the law and comply with the laws, those who make life difficult for all of us because they are breaking in, trafficking in human beings, illegal drug trafficking and what else there is. On the black lists are those people who present a danger to the Austrians – as I said, not all the good ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have never heard anyone on a black list who hasn't done anything. We all know who's on the black list. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes, we know that!]] That's why these lists also have these names. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all our efforts should be aimed at combating crime. Yesterday, there was a contribution in the “Report” on international trafficking in human beings. [[Abg. May. Worm: trafficking in women!]] Women's trafficking. 7 billion dollars are earned by trafficking in human beings – terrible fates are presented. I don't have any inhibitions at all when I get these people through DNA analysis, fingerprint or license monitoring. There is nothing to discuss at all, and you can still agree, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The perpetrators work across countries, they don't care about government structures, not data protection, not for any other reason, not for human rights or anything else – they want to do their business. And our task is to track down these merchants and prevent the business, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, if you think that all European countries should have signed this Treaty: I would have liked it too, but it has not even signed all seven states. As I heard from the Ministry of the Interior, it was a difficult struggle to achieve this treaty at all – France was, I think, leading what is worth considering. And many Eastern European countries, which should urgently submit, do not even have a DNA cardi. We haven't had a closed DNA card until 10 years ago, or not so much data that it would have been worth sharing these data at all. As I said, the effort must of course go in this direction. As the Data Protection Council was also addressed: Of course, it is important that the data be protected and that data transmission is also controlled, because there is nothing to talk about, but priority must be given to finding perpetrators and combating crime. That's definitely right. I do not know whether Mrs Minister Prokop will speak, probably, so I hope that I will not preface you, Mrs Minister. You, Mrs Minister, said in committee: There are 12,000 open tracks – and no perpetrators. Experts say one could solve 100 cases immediately if one could access DNA data with the help of this contract. As has been said, we do not need to be very afraid if we are not affected, because first we look anonymously at whether this data corresponds, and only then does the legal assistance agreement give us a personification of this data. As has been said, anyone who has nothing to fear can agree with this without a doubt. I believe that this Treaty is really a big step forward in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12614	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12635	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, also at the gallery! I would like to repeat that this Prüm Treaty is a further development of cooperation to combat international crime in order to ensure that our country is still the safest country – we have received confirmation. The ÖVP and this Federal Government stand for security in this Republic, for security for our people – and also for bank security. It is, of course, pressing for me to point out banking security very briefly as a spokesperson of the ÖVP, because what is happening now must not satisfy us with joy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pepper]] None of us, especially none of you from SPÖ, nor anyone else, can be happy about this mismanagement at the BAWAG, which takes us internationally's reputation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, now I am not talking about what's going on at the ARBÖ. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The ARBÖ would be your chapter, but I don't like that at all now, but I'm talking about the BAWAG. [[Abg. May. Worm: Prunner contract!]] Members who are SPÖ- und ÖGB-functionaries as well as in the Supervisory Board of BAWAG and are involved in the red felt are here at the speaker's desk, demanding special meetings, asking for urgent requests to control everything, because they cannot imagine that aircraft will be purchased in Austria as part of the Eurofighter procurement without any dark machinations. [[Call to the SPÖ: What does this have to do with the Prümer contract?]] But that is because this federal government does not tolerate it and does not do it! [[Abg. Parnigoni: And why isn't there the investigation committee?]] And now the beautiful one is coming: While you stand here, Parnigoni, while you stand out here and demand special meetings, you say at the same time to the BAWAG: Please, finance our planes! If I were not in Parliament, I would tell you now: This is the summit of hypocrisy! But here it would mean a call for order, so I say: What is going on here is immense and immoral! The people should know, ladies and gentlemen, who are now sitting here in the gallery, should know that on the one hand you are inside here in connection with airspace surveillance are massively opposed to the safety of Austria – but then turn around and say: But we do a business with our bank, of course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] How will you explain this to your small members who pay the trade union contribution every month? – But this is your problem, we will be able to talk about it in autumn due to the results of the elections. In conclusion: This law is another step towards security in Austria and for our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12719	I call Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12741	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer, I do not know what this BAWAG story and the Eurofighter procurement have to do with the Prümer contract; there is more than just a keen imagination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have to say: Them misses, sits, five, dear friend! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are already in the Committee of Inquiry, I have to say: I would be very pleased if we could get back to the Eurofighter Investigation Committee so that we can clarify the facts there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Finance it, but against it!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The present State Treaty does not only deal with football games, major events and the EU Presidency. If you look at the development of organised crime and international terrorism in recent years very serious and responsible, you have to say: All of this calls for increased international cooperation between Member States' security authorities – at present there are seven states. So this is a step in the right direction. The Ministry already has talks with Spain, Italy and Finland to mention some. The development calls for the development of cross-border police cooperation, even in the field of information exchange, it is essential to deepen it. Therefore, we are in favour of further development of international cooperation. This security treaty, ladies and gentlemen, regulates minutely computer queries concerning car data, fingerprints, DNA traces between Austria and six other EU countries. The way and the goal are right here. The often-weekly police requests are then a thing of the past. In the future, in the fight against crime each state can access the stored data of the others directly, and within a few minutes it is clear whether the DNA traces secured by us are related to a criminal act that has been committed, for example, in Germany or Italy. It is a matter of national law, of national databases, and that is why, from our point of view, Mrs Federal Minister, it is extremely important that there is control at national level. Legal guarantees must be secured and data protection provisions must be given special attention. That means that the legal protection concept needs to be fully taken into account, and above all sufficient democratic, parliamentary control must be ensured. We are always available for reasonable solutions, especially when it comes to the security of Austria and its people. That is why we will give our assent to this state agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12801	As the next speaker, Mr Ellmauer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12823	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Terror, organised crime and illegal migration have no limits! The fight against this form of cross-border crime must also be fought across borders. The Treaty on European Union, which we decide today, represents a new important step in European cooperation. The modern update of security police data within seven core countries of the European Union, namely Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, Luxembourg, Holland and Austria, corresponds to the possibilities of technology and data protection. As a human rights speaker of my group, in particular, I have been and is, in addition to the aspect of security, a very, very important concern for respect for fundamental rights. The technical prerequisites are for computer experts, but for respect for human rights, politics must be ensured. The Prümer Treaty takes both aspects into account. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! The green member of the Data Protection Council has also confirmed this, which is why it is unexplainable for me that you cannot vote here in the National Council today. In any case, you should recognise that trafficking in human beings, tow, terrorist and criminal activities can only be achieved through European cooperation. The time each country has used its own security structures on its own is over. International criminal gangs must be used by the modern means of the Fighting crime internationally. It is about clarifying open cases, but also about preventing new crimes. In this sense, of course, it would be desirable to extend the contract to other countries – which is also sought by our esteemed Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Lies Prokop – but in the case of police cooperation, the will or signature is not enough. It is only a modernisation, a technical approximation of the databases in the applicant countries that can lead to successful cooperation. In Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, preparatory work in this area is already very advanced. We hope that the Treaty will soon be extended. The accession of these directly neighbouring countries would bring Austria greater security and a massive relief of police work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12874	The next speaker spoke from the government bank from Mrs Federal Minister Prokop. We still have 4 minutes to deal with the urgent request. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12895	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to keep my statements very short. I would just like to thank you for being able to ratify the Prüm Treaty by a large majority today. We are thus the first of the seven contracting parties to decide. This means: Only with the ratification of the other States will this Treaty enter into force. I would also like to say in advance to the criticism that not all 25 states are participating in it: We have gone this path first, and I believe that we have a very innovative agreement in the area of police cooperation with the crucial factor that data protection and fundamental rights are particularly defined here. I will also mention within the framework of the European Council that we are using this as a model in other data exchange areas. With the comparison of DNA data, prints, but also vehicle registers and personal data, we have the opportunity to act very quickly against terrorism, against cross-border crime. I think this is a very important factor. It is also crucial that we can test 12 000 open data faster with the automated mass comparison. We hope to be able to re-roll old cases, to help victims give answers, but also to family members. I would like to say a real thank you. I believe that with the Prümer Treaty, we will have a model of international police cooperation in a Europe that has fewer borders, where borders are increasingly falling, that we will also provide a better basis for data protection, especially in police cooperation, but that this will also help to improve the fundamental right of security. Thank you very much for this cooperation and, above all, for this very objective discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12936	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 8 of the agenda, so that the required debate on a urgent question under Rules of Procedure can take place at 3 p.m. – and that is it now. [[14:59:15]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Herbert Scheibner, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Finance on securing the Austrian Economic and Financial Centre by providing complete information on the ÖGB-BAWAG scandal (4078/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e12966	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 4078/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13353	I give the floor to Mr Scheibner as the first questioner to justify the request, which must not exceed 20 minutes in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13375	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this urgent request is of the highest topicality. Finally, it is about the banking and financial location of Austria, which in recent years has generated a very good, yes excellent reputation. The banks have made a lot of money, they have expanded to the east, and this is also an important signal for Austria's economic location. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] You have to say this clearly and clearly at the beginning: At BAWAG, too, savings deposits are secure – nobody has to worry about – but we are concerned that such scandalous conditions as we have had to experience in the last few days and weeks cannot be repeated and that exactly this financial and banking location in Austria is not at risk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is also about showing the causes and reasons for these scandalous states: a knitting around ÖGB as the owner, SPÖ as a conglomerate, of managers who have shown themselves more than gamblers as real bank managers, and supervisory councils who may understand something about club life in the ÖGB, but nothing of banking. It was interesting today: Mr Maier has already presented some of the SPÖ's defence strategy here today. He was so nervous that he already expressed this with a wrong item on the agenda. He said: The whole story is not the ÖGB as the owner, of course, are not the supervisory councils that should control it, even not the SPÖ, because there is the principle: Don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't talk! – No, debt to the whole disaster is only one: Minister of Finance Grasser. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] - Fine! Fine! We already know all of this. There's still applause and naughty. Great! You obviously had a club meeting where you were sworn: We're not to blame, only Grasser's to blame, just like we've had. So not the thief is guilty of theft, but the police are guilty because they were not at the crime scene in time to prevent theft. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – So this is the SPÖ’s defence strategy! Wonderful! It is only a pity that Mr Maier has been so nervous and has already presented it here, ladies and gentlemen. But it is interesting to look at the chronology again: In 1994 BAWAG's first Caribbean affair was: Flöttl sen. an Flöttl jun., shops with highly risky deals – around 23 billion schillings went back then – to the Virgin Islands. – This has been revealed at the time, there has been a change in the banking law. There has already been a discussion about responsibility at the time, and at that time it was interesting that no one was there! Don't see, don't hear anything, don't talk! – The then central secretary, Cap, said: This is the trade union's case, and we have no opinion at all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] - 1994! The union says: We are glad that the Supervisory Board is now making such family transactions subject to approval in the future, otherwise we will not say anything – so nothing to that effect. But they all knew and heard from the trade union: Everyone knew about these transactions – perhaps not the actual extent, but whoever asked, he also got an answer. This is of course also a possibility: It's better not to ask, because maybe you don't get the answer you get, and then you can't say you don't know anything, you haven't heard anything, and that's why you don't have to say anything. Well, now one could have said that one has been taught a better one and all these transactions belong to the past. - It wasn't like that. There was then the change from Flöttl to Elsner, and Mr President-in-Office Elsner has resumed these Caribbean operations, which are high and extremely risky! [[Oh, call to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But this time – and this is what everyone admits – with full knowledge of the Supervisory Board and also of the Supervisory Board chairman. Who was that? – Today’s Chamber of Workers Tumpel, who has no responsibility today, knows nothing, sees nothing and does not talk about this responsibility. - All right. It has not become particularly public at the time and has not been widely discussed, because another scandal has covered everything, namely the “consumer” plea with which one has not had anything to do with the SPÖ, even at the trade union – one was also only owner’s representatives, even the BAWAG. Over a billion damage, thousands of jobs lost. Yes, admitted: This one scandal in the left half of the empire has covered the other scandal! A scandalist economy hunts the others. – All of this you have to answer! But also then: Don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't talk! We don't know anything, we don't have any responsibility. But what did you do back then? – One has 1 billion € – 1 billion € –...! You always have to say: This is a trade union bank! This is about a bank which should represent the interests of the worker and which has also advertised it! It has recruited investors, workers and employees to invest their money in this bank because these funds are also used with caution and responsibility. What did you do? – One has paid € 1 billion as a loan to Liechtenstein Foundations – they have such sounding names as Bensor, Treval, Biamo; that all sounds wonderful! What happened to this money you don't know, you only know one thing: that a large part of this billion is foot - speculated! It has not been included in the books, and it has not been written down at that time. But that's not enough. In 2000 we said again: We'll try it again! – You don’t happen to have any shares in the lottery company, so you also have to play around in the bank. 350 million € is once again taken into your hand as a game capital and there is Flöttl jun again.- Oh, my God! – So no one can say that there were lessons from 1994! – So another 350 million € play capital to Flöttl jun. This will be invested in bonds that typically bear names after US university cities! I assume that the level of education there is higher than the financial power of these funds, because they were all flops. Then you have moved this quickly into so-called interest rate swaps, so you have speculated on rising and falling interest rates – even in the interests of workers – and have built a total loss. – So another 350 million losses in 2000. Then came a new examiner of the audit agency KPMG – the question is: What did the old examiners check there that gave confirmation notes? – and he then said: Wait, there is now no notice, because there are liabilities that might endanger the bank. And then came Weninger and Vergestnich – all known – who then said: So, what are we doing now? – We give a guarantee, a guarantee of liability, with the assets of the ÖGB, including the strike fund, so that the trade union bank BAWAG has no problem. We don't inform anyone about it, not your own Supervisory Board, because otherwise – quote Weninger – something could come to the public. – So, too, distrust of your own Supervisory Board. It may be, and probably so, that the bank has at least been kept out of some difficulty in the public. Nevertheless, this approach was not correct, ladies and gentlemen, there is no way of slipping away from this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And above all, there is a responsibility of the owner and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, both by Tumpel and by Wenninger, for all these transactions in recent years. - Good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the ÖVP: Mr. Gusenbauer!]] - Yeah, we're still coming. Well, Mr Gusenbauer, he's not here today. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Has he already resigned?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He wasn't ready to start!]] That's another motto: Nothing to hear, speak and see! because then he can't have been there either. You have to imagine this as follows: Mr Vergestnich, one of the highest officials of SPÖ, said nothing to the head of the party and the bureau that he had taken over such a billion liability with the trade union federal funds. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I don't believe that!]] – There is no such thing as that?! – Well, I can already imagine that! It will have been like this: President Vergestnich says to a high-ranking SPÖ official: You, be careful, I have to tell you something: We have a problem with the BAWAG; there will be a liability beating! – Go, I don’t want to know anything about it!, the answer will have been. And then he'll have said: We have the problem and we have to assume a liability, otherwise problems will also occur in the public, and we could be pulled in there. – He says: But I didn't hear that now, and you know, you didn't tell me anything about it. . So, I can imagine, this will have ended, because everything else would contradict any experience where you always regard the trade union federation as the precursor of the SPÖ and as your clients and as your spectrum of power, Mr Wittmann. – This is the reality you want to escape from here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] Now you could imagine, at least now – and now everyone knows what problems there are – it's out with these speculations! Now, at last, in the union, there is the realization that one is not suitable for a banker. – And that’s no wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the Supervisory Board: The Central Secretary of the Metall-Textil trade union, the trade union of private workers, the trade union of private employees, the trade union of construction and wood, the union of railways, the trade union of the post office, the union of municipal officials and the director of the Chamber of Labour Vienna. – These were the Supervisory Boards at that time, ladies and gentlemen, on and for themselves so far! Yes, what are these for bank experts? That's what I understand when they all say: We have not heard anything, we have seen nothing and therefore cannot talk about it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] That is precisely the control, that is the conglomerate we criticise here, ladies and gentlemen. That is why it has also been possible that these 350 million, who are always so perplexed around, have continued to wander around. – Mr Matznetter, explain to us why these 350 million, where one knows, are dissolved in air, re-appeared and brought into a BAWAG fund, and then the BAWAG receives funds worth €350 million, which are then re-introduced in the balance sheet in order to cover up and cover up these losses! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, as a tax advisor, tell us: What's that? – Is the balance sheet falsification, or what is it, Mr. Collegue? But that after the year 2000, not before! Do not scream around, but explain You finally made the mistakes there! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These funds have been moved back and forth until 2004 until they have finally been stored at letterbox companies in the Caribbean. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] And the deal has expired with a REFCO daughter, where we then noticed the consequences with this 350 million € flash credit, of which no one wants to know anything. - Good, so far, so bad, ladies and gentlemen. But now also the owner's responsibility. Now it could be thought that following these experiences, after Mr. Director-General Elsner in 2000, this misguided message was sent to the owner about all these painterries, he said: Well, dear Director-General, that's it, we're going to clean it up again, but we've got enough of you now and you're not going to talk much more about it. But what happened? – First of all, he remained, but he did not retire until 2003, but before that he had a good job to finish his pension claim: 3.6 million €, not bad. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How much? – 50 million schilling!]] Why have you done it before? - Because the tax laws have changed. If he had left the company, he would have had to pay more taxes by 12 million schilling. So the ÖGB allows the BAWAG General Director a tax-free settlement of his pension. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] But that's not enough. He also got a finish and then a 300 000 € job at the lotteries, where we hear that he was not there at all, but has been in operation there until now, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for bringing the bank almost to the edge of the abyss with its economy. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to explain this! What consequences did you draw from the information you had in 2000? – 3.6 million pension payments and a 300 000 € job for Mr Elsner! And now there's another thing to do: Until last week – and this is again a cross-link to the union – Mr. Elsner was sitting in the board of directors of the ÖGB Foundation, ladies and gentlemen! That's really great, actually. That's where he's sitting with Mrs. Hostasch. Of course, she has nothing to do with the SPÖ. Don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't talk. It did not know who else was sitting in that board of foundations. But these are the people who seem to have – we don't know exactly – to manage a billion of the union's assets that don't even know who's inside. There seem to be no meetings either. Where will the decisions on the use of these funds be taken? Wonderful, ladies and gentlemen: The ÖGB, an important institution for the representation of the workers' interests, acts like a big capitalist, but has been run by the market economy like a savings association, ladies and gentlemen. This must also be ended in the interests of workers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is an insult to the Sparverein!]] A few days ago, there was a discussion about this very situation: Why has the Director-General Elsner been so rewarded for this mismanagement that he has been responsible for? And there a journalist said in this discussion: Well, there's really the question of asking, was that a silent money? And if it's been a silent money, what for? What is he about, Mr Elsner, ladies and gentlemen? You might also be able to do that, Mr. Matznetter, if you do... – The one-storm storm does not come out today, so to speak, so that you do not get connected with this unpleasant thing. So you give business expert Matznetter the opportunity to get out of here. Explain this to us once: Why was Mr Elsner rewarded, and what did he have to hide? Perhaps he should not tell us why the ÖGB has received a special dividend from BAWAG worth €56 million, ladies and gentlemen, in 2004, in which one has already had all these problems, but still has not yet written off much of these losses. € 56 million Special dividends in addition to the normal dividend of € 15 million to cover trade union debts taken from the BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen! Is that one of those points that the public should not or should not be informed of? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Enlighten!]] Clarify this once! A bank that is currently in the process of rehabilitating these painterries, and which would not have been able to write down all of this, has to transfer €56 million of special dividends to the union union, because there seems to be the mismanagement and the member's wound so far that one can no longer finance one's own operations. These are the scandalous shackles, ladies and gentlemen, between a bank, a union union and a SPÖ that acts as if it had nothing to do with this union, but all the top officials of this union are also top officials of the SPÖ! These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, and you cannot steal from them! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now one could still believe that now one has finally recognized the signs of time and will put in place appropriate measures to deal with all of this. And what happens now? – There, Mr Rudolf Hundstorfer becomes interim union president and leads the union. Colleague Hundstorfer is known in Vienna as SPÖ-Mandatar and top official and is also characterized accordingly by his own people as one who, as part of his activity in the municipality of Vienna, in doubt places the interests of SPÖ before the interests of the union. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Proporz!]] Wonderful signal to the union members! Or the new financial officer Foglar from the union. Where did he come from? – From the Supervisory Board of BAWAG. He now becomes the head of the union's financial institution and then also sits in this board of directors, but says he doesn't know anything about the debts, has only learned about it last week. – So these are not the corresponding reactions! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, at the end of the day, because in a reaction Mr Gusenbauer says on his homepage: This is all just a distraction of the government from its own weaknesses. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] . I think you have seen that this is now on the agenda and not slying sometime in the summer, because then you have expected a problem. But let's take an example of how You claimed to have renovated the SPÖ, Mr. Gusenbauer, write on your own homepage. Yes, that would also interest us, because in the large debts that the SPÖ has had, and if you say... – Yes, I am clarifying, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Precisely!]] Because I took out your party's account report: Accountancy report from the years 2001 and 2002 of the Social Democratic Party of Austria. In the year 2001 is cited here under donations from...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13657	Mr Darabos, you are constantly calling in between, you can speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13679	Donations of voluntary-based professional and economic associations in 2001: €2.5 million, in 2002 under this title, i.e. once again donations from voluntary-based professional and economic associations: [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] €5.6 million. [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, we would also be interested in this: a professional association based on voluntary membership. What did you get from the Austrian Trade Union Confederation to cover your party debts?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13718	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Finance spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e13739	Mr President. Appreciative Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Since 2000, the Austrian Federal Government has been fully committed to improving and attracting Austria's economic and labour location. We have set up a number of measures to upgrade this economic and work location – think of the first and second stages of tax reform, redundancies of workers, the economy, research and development, education, infrastructure. Everything with the aim: How can we improve the framework conditions for more jobs, more prosperity and more income for our people? We have been very much committed to upgrading Austria's financial centre, for an attractive capital market. The Austrian Stock Exchange is the best-performing stock exchange of all Western industrialized countries in recent years. There has been a fivefold increase in capitalization, a reduction in sales on the stock market. The index level has quadrupled. We have invested massively in the trustworthiness, the credibility of the site. I should like to remind you of joint decisions here in the House, a capital market offensive law, a capital market representative, an employee care, one of the major social reforms, a provision for the future. We have jointly launched the Financial Market Supervision with Constitutional Law – a decision of all four political groups here in the House – on my proposal and after intensive negotiations, because we were all convinced that there would be a more powerful financial market surveillance. We have passed an economic hygiene law. Finally, we have also decided on an Enforcement package so that financial market supervision has more bit to actually examine and act here. Ladies and gentlemen, remember the last months of reporting and remember that we had media reports: “Austria – the better Germany”. – Think of material reports: The Centre for European Reform has said that Austria is the country with the third highest competitiveness throughout Europe after Sweden and Finland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we can rightly say that we can be proud that we can have a new confidence in Austria, that we have built confidence and that Austria is just fine today. If we are now faced with this financial scandal of BAWAG, we also need to be aware that God's regret is a setback for the financial place, then we must be aware that we have a whole series of negative headlines in many well-known international pages and magazines, then we must be aware that there has never been a financial scandal in this dimension in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Yes! Take-off hunters!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] According to today's knowledge, there have obviously been losses of just under €1.4 billion, which are nearly 20 billion schilling or nearly 20,000 million schilling to express it in old currency. To compare: If you remember that in 1997 the second largest bank, CA, was sold, then remember that it was sold for 17 billion schilling, with a number of pearls of Austrian industrial companies in the equity portfolio: Wienerberger, Lenzing, Steyr-Daimler-Puch and others more. If you see just under €1.4 billion and know that there are about 1.3 million members of the Trade Union Confederation, this means, ladies and gentlemen, that more than €1,000 per trade union member has been speculated in the Caribbean. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is the foreign policy of the SPÖ!]] This is a very serious situation where we should jointly pursue two objectives. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the future: It is a huge concern – and I would like to say this clearly here – to help secure the future of BAWAG and to give security to more than 1.2 million savers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gaál: It's safe!]] We now have two board members at BAWAG. I would like to mention Professor Novotny and Dr. Koren, and I would also like to say here: I have full confidence in these two boards. I would like to thank them for having contributed a lot to the clarification of this financial scandal over the last few days and will certainly continue to do so, and I would like to do everything to support these two boards in their efforts to secure the bank accordingly, so that we can also cope with this difficult situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is perfectly clear that we have to do everything we can to do – in the past – that there is more transparency that there is constant information. There are so many questions unanswered today, so many questions open where it is not possible to provide answers from today's point of view that you can simply say: In the interests of Austria's reputation, in the interests of confidence in Austria's economic location, there must be a complete investigation, no question must be answered unanswered! And I expect anyone who has contributed to this financial scandal, who has known it or has also tolerated it, to make a contribution to the clarification that it is reparative and that the consequences are also affected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me come to answer the questions raised. Question 1: According to the provisions of the Stocks Act, the Board of Directors shall lead the company in such a way as to require the well-being of the company, taking into account the interests of shareholders and employees as well as public interest. The Executive Board shall inform the Supervisory Board regularly, promptly and comprehensively about all relevant business development issues including the risk situation in the company and all Group companies. The task of the Supervisory Board is to control the Executive Board. On the basis of the facts currently known, there is a suspicion that, in addition to the Banking Act, a number of other standards could have been infringed. I may provide the following information: It will be possible to examine possible errors of the Executive Board under the Stocks Act or Commercial Code. For example, it should be noted that: Information obligations to the Supervisory Board, lack of information about the auditor, incomplete information in the annual financial statements or progress report. With regard to possible errors to be suspected under the Criminal Code, for example the obligation of the Executive Board to provide information according to § 255 of the Stock Exchange Act, according to media reports already determined the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. Another point: Possible errors of the Executive Board under the Banking Act will be to be examined. This may involve infringements of the rules relating to large-scale investments, in particular that there could have been no approval by the Supervisory Board, or failure to comply with the annual reporting obligation, insufficient formation of groups of related companies, in particular with regard to the Caribbean companies. It will be necessary to examine a breach of the care requirement in accordance with § 39 of the Banking Act. It will be necessary to examine the incomplete or the deliberately incorrect provision of information vis-à-vis financial market supervision. It will be necessary to examine the lack of qualitative and quantitative features of the internal revision as well as a possible breach of accounting and equity rules in the depreciation of losses arising from the Caribbean transactions. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why not 2001?]] There may have been any infringements of the rules on taxation, which will also have to be examined. There may have been errors of the auditor to examine, in particular with regard to insufficient auditing by the auditor. This requires full information on the part of the Board of Directors. It will be necessary to consider whether the auditor was aware of the situation of the Caribbean daughters, the corresponding claims and the guarantee of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because a reporting obligation would have existed under § 63 of the Banking Act, which obviously has not been observed. Finally, it will be necessary to examine errors under the association law, because, as we all know from media reports, it is likely that a guarantee from the ÖGB has been given and, of course, the question arises whether this guarantee has been obtained in accordance with the provisions of the association law under the Statutes of the ÖGB and has subsequently also been included in the annual accounts of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. With regard to infringements of the Banking Act, it is noted that with the recent amendment to the Banking Act, we have significantly increased the administrative penalties and created further effective sanctions mechanisms for infringements. Should it be in breach of § 255 para. 1 of the Stocks Act, then, under certain conditions, prison sentences up to a year or fines up to 360 daily sentences are provided as punishment from the court. For infidelity within the meaning of § 153 of the Criminal Code, a criminal framework of up to 10 years is provided for in the case of damages exceeding € 50 000. In this context, I would like to point out the recent media reports confirmed by the spokesman of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, according to which the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office has already filed applications for arrest against Phillip Bennett and Wolfgang Flöttl in connection with the BAWAG-REFCO. On Monday, the prosecutor's office had initiated a judicial investigation against the former REFCO chief Bennett and the son of the former long-time BAWAG general director Walter Flöttl for fraud or infidelity. ==References== If the persons responsible have learned from the first Caribbean business in 1994, I am allowed to carry out the following: I believe that if we follow what has now been reported, the responsible have clearly not learned anything from the first Caribbean scandal in 1994. Although the former Director General Flöttl resigned at the time, his successor as Chairman of the Board at BAWAG, Mr. Elsner, has already informed the Supervisory Board in 1995 – at the time under the chairmanship of today's President of the Tumpel Chamber of Workers – that one wants to resume the Caribbean business, also with the participation of Mr. Flöttl junior. The Supervisory Board obviously approved this request, although the then president of the Trade Union Confederation had also announced that such transactions would be stopped. Consequences have obviously not occurred even after the loss in the order of 1 billion € for those affected. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] On the contrary: The former Director General Elsner, who commissioned the Caribbean business according to BAWAG, was BAWAG General Director until 2003, his pension claims were completed with an order of €3.5 million, and he got a job in the lotteries, which according to media reports was honoured with an additional €330 000 a year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Irre!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Question 3: According to my knowledge and my previous research, it seems that in 1995 commitments of €500 million were entered in the Caribbean. In 1998, an additional €500 million was added. In the year 2000, another €350 million was used, so a sum of € 1 billion of € 350 million. According to today's knowledge 999 million € have been lost due to highly risky speculations in the Caribbean. If one sums up this with the REFCO losses, then we speak here in total of €1.4 billion, which have been placed in the sand. At the time – I concentrate on the three years I mentioned – the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, thus in the positions of the responsible bodies: In 1995 Director-General Elsner as Head of BAWAG; Mr Tumpel – today's Chamber of Workers – as Chairman of the Supervisory Board; Fritz Verzetznitsch as then ÖGB President and thus owner. In 1998, in turn, Dr. Elsner as BAWAG General Director; Mr. Weninger as Chairman of the Supervisory Board; and again Fritz Verzetznich as President of the Trade Union Confederation, owner. In 2000 the same constellation: Elsner BAWAG General Director; Weninger Supervisory Board Chairman; Vergestnich ÖGB President, Owner. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] By the year 2000, persons such as Eleonora Hostasch or Consumer Director Commercial Council Dkfm were found in the Supervisory Board of BAWAG. Edwin Schuster or Commercial Councillor Dr. Hermann Gerharter and a number of other personalities. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What about Professor...?]] Question 4: According to media reports, the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Supervisory Board Weninger as well as the owner Fritz Verzetznitsch obviously knew about these transactions. According to my previous research, I assume that neither the financial market supervision nor the supervisory authority of the Federal Ministry of Finance – where we were responsible – were informed of the losses and difficult situation of the BAWAG as regards the possibility to draw up a balance sheet. The Supervisory Board was also obviously not fully informed. As far as minority owners, the Bavarian Landesbank, are concerned, I can inform you that yesterday I held a telephone call with President Werner Schmidt. The Bavarian Landesbank was at least 46 percent shareholder at BAWAG. Director-General Schmidt assured me that he has not been informed of all these malversations and has not known anything about them. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Question 5: According to my knowledge, costs of about €35 million for the Casinobau project in Jericho were estimated. In view of the currently known differences between the construction costs and the need for value adjustment, it should not be excluded that a transfer of other engagements to this company might have taken place. This is to be checked as well as a medial alleged possible violation of the § 307 of the Criminal Code, namely a bribery of officials abroad. The previous research gives us reason to believe that the ÖGB should be liable for the commitment of BAWAG to the casino project in Jericho in the form of a guarantee. One holding company to be credited to BAWAG holds 11 percent of the casino in Jericho. Compared to this holding, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has assumed a liability of € 120 million. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Madness!]] On question 6: Around one third of the shares in the Austrian lotteries are held by Casinos Austria AG, another third holds the BAWAG indirectly, which acquired these shares as a result of the merger with the Postsparkasse. If BAWAG has now upgraded its shares in the Austrian lottery company in its consolidated balance sheet, this will be a question of the assessment and confirmation of the auditor in the 2005 balance sheet. However, this assessment does not affect the remaining equity, in particular the shares held by Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft. However, the BAWAG Group will be the subject of the audit by financial market supervision, and it will, of course, also have to review assessment issues. The question 7, which damage has occurred to the Austrian financial centre, I am allowed to answer in so far as the painters of the BAWAG are unfortunately the subject of international reporting. There have been more than 60 articles in well-known German-speaking media in the last two weeks, for example in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, in the “Handelsblatt”, in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” in the “Welt”, in others. There have been a number of articles in the “Financial Times”, in the “Daily Telegraph”, in the “International Herald Tribune”. And, of course, this is a setback for the financial centre. But the goal – I say it again – that we must have just against this background is to reduce the damage, which can only be done by a complete, continuous investigation with merciless consequences, as well as on the other hand, by securing the institute for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In question 8, the possible impact on taxpayers: I have to inform you that there is a federal liability under § 1 of the P.S.K. Act for liabilities of P.S.K., which last until 31. ==References====External links== The Federal Government is liable for this under §§ 1346 and 1355 ABGB. For this reason, but also for fundamental considerations, the Federal Government of course has a great interest in the good economic development of the BAWAG – P.S.K. Group in the future. Against this background, I assume that BAWAG – P.S.K. wins. until the complete settlement of all past injury cases is used exclusively to strengthen the bank's capital base and to avoid disbursements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Should the Bank's institutions make other decisions, I assume that the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority will use the supervisory instruments available to it in such cases, for example a ban on profit withdrawal, consistently and in the interest of all, of course also the saver and other creditors. Question 9 concerns liability of more than € 1 billion through the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and whether this is in line with Austrian laws. . I would like to point out that the answer to this question falls within the competence of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. However, I would like to point out that the association law itself norms for small associations that the management body is obliged to inform the members of the general meeting about the activities and financial conduct of the association. There are also, not least, accounting rules for the protection of creditors, but also for members, according to which the management body must ensure that the financial situation of the association is adequate and timely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has come to know every small association in a country of the numerous associations, and it is well known that the accounting rules have been complied with accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I cannot understand how it was possible for individuals in the bodies, members, auditors and the authorities beyond to make such an amount of legal transactions, as reported in the media, and to conclude a liability of 1 billion euros. – In any case, the Board of Directors of the Association shall be liable for the proper conduct. I assume that the competent authorities will take appropriate measures. Questions 10 and 11 concern what financial market supervision has or has not done. – I can stress that this is a particularly important question for me, because today I was accused by the Social Democratic Party that the Federal Ministry of Finance knew everything but did nothing. Consequence: Grasser's to blame. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Yes, of course!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can inform you that it is on 1st. A meeting was held in the Ministry of Finance in October 1995, at which the then Director General Elsner informed the Ministry of Finance that, with full information and consent from the Supervisory Board, the then President Tumpel, but also the other Supervisory Board members, he will resume the Caribbean business with Flöttl junior. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Aha!]] I can say to make it clear that it is not the task of financial market supervision to prohibit a bank from doing business. This cannot do a supervision based on the legal basis. Rather, it is up to the supervisory authority to check whether laws are complied with, whether there is a corresponding risk management, whether there is a due diligence and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I am allowed to inform you that in 1995 it came to the start of the business. I have looked at what was done in this context in the Ministry of Finance, and I say openly that I was surprised that the Minister of Finance, Staribacher, responsible for Social Democracy in 1995, did not do anything about social democracy, that the following Minister of Finance, Climate, later Chancellor of Social Democracy, did nothing and that the third Minister of Social Democratic Finance, Edlinger, did not do anything afterwards in 1997, 1998 and 1999. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oh, that's it?]] That means: In 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 to February 2000, there was no supervisory action at the Federal Ministry of Finance! This falls within the responsibility of the then Social Democratic Finance Ministers! [[Abg. Like Molterer: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] My appointment took place on 4 May. February 2000, and I am reminded that in February 2000, i.e. in the month of my appointment, I commissioned the relevant section to make a proposal for the restructuring of banking supervision in Austria. There was an opinion from Professor Zechner at the time, and there have been a number of all-party talks for which I thank myself because I am convinced that this has led to a modern and international supervision. There was a joint decision on the establishment of financial market supervision – a non-profit and independent all-financial supervision – which has been in Austria since 1. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I would like to inform you that I made it happen on 24 February. A management discussion with the BAWAG Board of Directors took place on October 2, 2000, on issues such as the obligation to take care of the Board of Directors. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The question of commitment in the Caribbean has also been raised by BAWAG. In addition, the question of how the BAWAG could afford the purchase of the postal savings bank was also specifically raised. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Did you have this conversation?]] I did not have this discussion, but I have responsibility for this discussion because there was no such discussion five years ago, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you, unfortunately, that my ladies and gentlemen, who were responsible at the time, informed me that at the time the competent board of directors said there was no problem in Caribbean business and no losses. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What?]] At that time, the financial market supervision was obviously an expression of verbis! [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] I can inform you that there was another audit mandate from the Federal Minister for Finance in December 2000. At the time, I commissioned the Austrian National Bank to conduct an on-the-spot check in the BAWAG. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Minister! Who lied back then?]] The central bank was responsible for this on-the-spot review of 2000/2001. Within the central bank, the responsible director was Ms. Tumpel-Gugerell. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Under the aegis of financial market supervision, a further on-the-spot examination of the BAWAG – P.S.K. Group with the audit focus of the merger of both institutions took place in 2003. On the occasion of the REFCO Bennett credit card in October 2005, financial market supervision has immediately undergone this business environment a re-examination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also need to inform you about a letter dated December 2005: At that time, the financial market supervision at BAWAG asked whether there was a link between the BAWAG and the Caribbean companies. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This was denied by BAWAG in writing in December of last year. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Clearly, then, a smooth misinformation took place in December last year and the smooth untruth of financial market supervision was said! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter asked what the outcome of the 2001 audit report was. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Exactly!]] I would like to inform you that this audit report has certainly promoted a number of shortcomings in the BAWAG, a number of things that can be improved, such as internal revision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How does the internal revision work?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can inform you about this...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14250	Mr Matznetter, it is enough now! I'll give you a call for order. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Please don't give me a chance! I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14283	High house! I can inform you that this test report by the Austrian National Bank of 2001 does not contain a word about the commitment of BAWAG in the Caribbean of €500 million from 1995, that there is no word about a further commitment of €500 million from 1998, and that there is no word about a further commitment of €350 million in 2000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] I am allowed to report that there is no word in the test report that there has been significant losses due to these Caribbean speculations. I am allowed to report that in this audit report there is no reference to a liability assumed by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. I have to report that there is no word to point out that auditors had seen a problem drawing up the balance sheets of the BAWAG. Ladies and gentlemen, you must also consider how supervision works. There is a level-building of supervision in Austria. Stage 1 – the Board of Directors: This is, of course, obliged to take care. Stage 2 – an internal revision. Stage 3 – the Supervisory Board of the Bank: Of course, this one has to carry out the bank's control. Stage 4 – the auditor: The main task of the auditor is to assess the value of claims or liabilities, because that is the prerequisite for testing a balance sheet or not. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Without internal revision!]] Fifth level – supervision itself. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that, on the basis of my previous research, I have been given the impression that you have acted very consciously and deliberately by the supervision and have misinformed the supervision. In order to clarify the responsibility: For five years, Social Democratic Finance Ministers were responsible, almost two years my person, when the Federal Ministry of Finance still had the responsibility. For four years now, independent, non-profit financial market surveillance has been responsible, and none of the responsibilities have succeeded in discovering these painters over this entire period of time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have said what I am going to say, otherwise, but I have to speak, if one accuses me here, that I bear responsibility for this scandal, if one says: Grasser is to blame, and at the same time Member Gusenbauer has said: Consciously, nothing has been blamed. Consciousness has done everything right! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have started party politics here, because I believe that the matter is the supreme commandment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But if I am accused here of having blamed me on this financial scandal, I simply have to tell you that my impression is that Fritz Verzellnitsch, who until recently was sitting in your ranks as a parliamentarian alongside other trade union officials, obviously knew everything and that he has made a very conscious purchase that he has not been informed that he has watched how the financial market supervision has been repeated by his Supervisory Board chairman and has been told by his Director-General and the untruth has been said. [[Abg. Oils: I'm about to cry!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, if you say that I am guilty, I must say: It's not ridiculous! This is not a contribution to the education! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a desperation state of your party leaders, and I hope it will appeal to them more! Question 12 I can answer as follows: In the state-owned industry, from 1981 to 1990 subsidies from taxpayers amounted to approximately €4.3 billion. At the same time, about 50,000 jobs have been lost. The Landesbank needed subsidies of €430 million. The DDSG needed a subsidy of about €380 million. At AMAG, a grant of approximately € 87 million was to be privatized. In Grundig there were subsidies of €50 million from 1983 to 1988. In 2003, 800 jobs were lost. In the “consumer” there were supplier liabilities of € 116 million, the insolvency fund was charged € 145 to 218 million, and 5,000 workers were cancelled. At Bank Burgenland, the assumer's liability amounted to € 480 million. Foreign currency speculations under my predecessor Minister of Finance other than Edlinger brought price and interest losses of € 1 868 000. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Noteful!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] According to media reports, the municipality of Vienna is said to have lost up to €1 billion in shares of the Hypo-Vereinsbank through its exchange of bank-austria shares in the central savings bank. The last question, Question 13, in which the Penthouse apartments of Mr Flöttl, Mr Elsner and Mr Vergestnitsch were addressed, I can answer as follows: Like any taxable person, the persons concerned have, of course, a right to respect the obligation to keep confidentiality. I would, however, like to make a brief comment on what is to be understood here as a matter of fact: Income and thus income within the meaning of § 15 Income Tax Act 1988 are available when the taxable person benefits from its non-business income. Money benefits must be taken into account with the usual average price of the consumer. The most well-known items are, for example, service cars or service apartments. A regulation has been adopted on the subject, including rules on the assessment of housing at square meters per month. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying once again: Our greatest interest must be to secure the bank's future, to give the savers security and, on the other hand, to ensure a complete awareness of these events! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14430	We are now going into the debate. For business treatment, the clubman of social democrat Dr. Cap spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14459	Mr President. Mr Matznetter has made political calls completely properly from his place. – The response to the calls was that Secretary of State Kukacka showed him the “bird” in an extremely unapproached form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We cannot accept that! [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We ask for an excuse from Secretary of State Kukacka! We demand that the order call be withdrawn! In fact, State Secretary Kukacka deserves an order, because that is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14501	Mr Klubobmann Molterer spoke on business.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14526	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Above all: Spectators at the gallery and media representatives! As you can see, what Karl-Heinz Grasser now portrays as a red criminal story really hit the mark. If Josef Cap even has to go to the Rules of Procedure to distract, you know how far it is missing! Mr President. By the way, I'm holding on: The issue of the issuing of orders is exclusively the matter of the President and of no one else.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14559	The third party in the context of the business-handling word reports: Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14583	Mr President. Of course, it's alone. Your right to give or not to order calls. But I think that a certain symmetry is already appropriate. I have not seen this interaction between the Secretary of State and my colleague, Mr Matznetter, and I cannot say anything about that. But I have noticed very well that from the government bank – perhaps for very good reasons – one can say: He or she lied. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This can be proved!]] If, on the other hand, I say the same thing here from the speaker's mouth and have a hundred good evidence and evidence that someone knowingly said the untruth or – as you say in the folk mouth – lied, for I get an order immediately. I don't think that's all right, with respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14618	Mr Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14642	Mr President. If, in the face of such a banking, trade union and party scandal, we are expressing such concerns as Mr Cap did, then I would suggest that we set up a parliamentary kindergarten so that we can: These things can be treated there and we can get back to the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14672	We are now going into the debate. Mr Neudeck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 8 minutes. Once again, I would like to draw the attention of all the ladies and gentlemen of the House to the fact that persistent interference of a speaker through constant calls for intervention from the square after the fourth call for intervention will be considered by me with a call for order, no matter which group these calls come from. Mr Matznetter, you are the most persistent caller, and you know that! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I call Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14713	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be so excited! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The cow's already out of the stable! The BAWAG and the union can't save you anymore! So be a little calmer! First of all, a brief fact to Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner: There is a parliamentary kindergarten, but not for Members. Ladies and gentlemen! The BAWAG was founded by Karl Renner in 1922 and should carefully manage the financial resources of the trade union and consumer cooperatives. At that time it was still the workers' bank, later it was called BAWAG. If he saw what developed from it, then Karl Renner would turn around in the grave! [[Abg. Rädler: I think so!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the BAWAG has been around for 85 years now. I've been a customer at BAWAG for 25 years. The BAWAG has carried out my first financing properly and has always been a valuable companion to me as a bank, and I must say that I never got beyond the branch business. I've never had to deal with the board of directors. That is why I would like to thank the hundreds of employees of BAWAG in the branches below the board of directors today for continuing to carry out their work properly, for trying to calm them down and explain this unexplainable debakel every day hundreds of people on the switch. Many thanks to the BAWAG staff and, of course, also to the employees! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is immoral, ladies and gentlemen, that board members like Flöttl and Elsner, after such a debacle – which was known to them at the time in gross terms – retire with such discharges; Elsner with a finish for which an average earner would have to work for 172 years in Austria. In addition, it also provides an annual salary for a company for which every average earner should work for 14 years. – This is immoral and has nothing to do with social and union thoughts! Ladies and gentlemen, let us also look at how these board members have dealt comfortably with their housing situation in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Bawag-nearly companies have signed downtown properties so that as the only other co-owner there can live a former board director in the attic, where he is the owner. President Vergestnich is a tenant there and says he pays a usual rent. For this “market” rental rate you will find it difficult to find an apartment at the municipality of Vienna, but Vergestnitsch believes that it is common practice. Even more angry and much more to harm the savers and investors at Bawag – because it is partly outsourced to funds and insurance companies or leasing companies – is it if you parify properties so that Director-General Flöttl can afford a 600-square-metre apartment with swimming pool as a penthouse on a downtown property. This price has only been achieved because he has planned this apartment before. He was first a tenant, wanted a special ground plan, and that very ground plan then led to a reduced price. Everyone here knows that housing in the city center, in the 1st century. District below € 6 000 to € 7 000 per square meter is not available – Flöttl has made it possible to own just over € 1,000 per square meter. I thought it was a business. I knew Executive Director Elsner was living on the tufts. A few years ago, when you went to the city in the morning, you saw a swimming pool floating in the air on the roof of the building. This one should be lowered at night so that one does not know that Mr. Elsner is sinking in a pool – not like Dagobert Duck in the money store and in the money, but already in the water – but, unfortunately, the exporting company has made the opening for the pool too small, so he had to "hang" under tags for a few hours so that he could be sunk. So solidarity certainly does not go that far, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you, in all cases, to distance yourself from it and to look at how and why these prices and events have come about. For me, the ÖGB is the first risk-financing institution in Austrian history on and on its own. Already ex-ÖGB President Franz Olah has "evided himself" savings books. Although they are always available, it was said, then the success project “Kronen Zeitung” was founded. Karl Sekanina, Minister of Building and Metallian Tradesmen, has resigned... [[Abg. Oillingers: You forget your own party!]] Of course, I don't forget my own party, just: [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What's his name? Rosenstingl?]] Such dimensions and moral ambiguities exist in no other party, you may believe me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Karl Sekanina, Minister of Construction, resigns because he bought a villa cheaply offered to him by a subsidiary close to the union, the Infrabau/New Home. Multifunctional Alois Rechberger resigned as the Styrian AK President because he was sentenced for abusive use of chamber funds. [[Abg. Oils: At least they have resigned!]] Your colleague, who's to step back with us? No man took party money from us. [[Abg. Oils: Everybody!]] You can make this claim 25 times, it won't be true, Mr Oellinger! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you continue to observe the Bawag and see that it has sent the company Atomic Tube Moser into bankruptcy, although, as I believe, the courts are still busy today to clarify whether this company had to be driven into bankruptcy at the time, then you know exactly how the ÖGB has worked in recent years and decades. Ladies and gentlemen! It may even be the tip of an iceberg. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the savers and trade unionists: Go inside and do not defend such criminal measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14835	Now Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Molterer to the speaker's desk. 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e14856	Mr President. High house! The answer to the question by Federal Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser has indeed listened to a reading from the economic crime in the red network. It was very interesting. One has heard a needle falling; only exception: the unqualified calls of matznetters. Obviously not even you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, have recognised the full scope so far and have therefore listened very attentively and entered this economic crisis. I said a week ago: Pour, bad luck and pans. – Unfortunately, that is not right, because a pan is no longer. As bad luck it may be some of you, namely, bad luck for you, that this has now come to the public. It is not, as has been said, a panacea, but it is a veritable plate, a plethora of SPÖ economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The SPÖ can't operate! These last days have proved this clearly. You can't operate, you've played the rest of your economic competence, ladies and gentlemen! But not only do you have a K problem, namely a competence problem, but you also have a G problem. Some may not know what I mean by this: I do not mean your party president, but you have a problem of credibility, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy! You have not only played out economic competence, but you have played out all credibility, because now it becomes clear what has happened in the red network. What was it all about? The nationalists have failed, with billions of schilling and euro subsidized, and thousands of jobs have been lost. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Tens of thousands!]] The “consumer” went well 11 years ago, ladies and gentlemen! Gusenbauer said he was a child 11 years ago. I already knew him at the time, he looked something different than a child. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There he was in Moscow and kissed the ground!]] 17 000 people have lost their job. – Economic policy brand SPÖ! In the meantime, Bank Austria CA no longer belongs to the Germans, but to the Italians. The Austrian share is about 1 percent. – Special class asset destruction, economic policy brand SPÖ! Bank Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen: a damage to taxpayers probably €460 million or more. It is simply speculated that taxpayer pays. – Economic policy brand SPÖ! Then there is the ARBÖ, of which four are national associations on the brink of existence, which are insolvency. There is a Director-General with 240 000 € Gage, supposedly with a salary increase of 18 percent per year. – This is a moral image of the SPÖ and an expression of the economic policy of the SPÖ that has washed, and now it is distanced from it; it is said that Parnigoni or Rieder or Schober from Carinthia were responsible there. [[Abg. Amon: Social Justice!]] – A classic thing of the red network! And the Bawag is the top and the height, ladies and gentlemen! 1 billion € will be lowered in the Caribbean. The chairman of the Supervisory Board, Tumpel at the time, says he has nothing to do with it, he has no responsibility, nor does he take care of it. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Unheard of!]] It's even going on. The Trade Union Confederation is attacking the strike fund, the fund that is fed out of the membership contributions of the trade unionists and is actually the heart of every trade union movement. Actually, you went into the heart of the union, you grabbed where the life nerve of a union lies. – So far you have brought it, ladies and gentlemen! Not only high-risk speculations, but you also went to your own, to the union members. The 400 million for Refco are, so to speak, just the charming update. I ask an Austrian entrepreneur how long it takes for him to get a loan at BAWAG. When it comes to Refco: from Friday noon to Saturday or Sunday afternoon. - Unbelievable! Brand SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! You did high-risk shops! You can't just run, but you've played every skill! The red thread of the SPÖ economic policy means red figures. Red thread are red figures – this is economic policy brand SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the loss of competence alone – I have already said – is not. You have also played out every credibility, ladies and gentlemen! This red double moral has to be shown. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's what you say?]] There is a strike fund, which is the life insurance of workers, the trade unionist, which is the heart of the trade union movement, and it is easily accessed. This fund will be exposed to almost even greater risk than the Caribbean business itself. Yes, is that responsible to the 1.4 million trade unionists? You're making high-risk shops, sucking up € 1 billion, putting € 1 billion in Karibiksand, ladies and gentlemen, and then you're talking about "Hungary Capitalism", of "Turbo Capitalism"?- Oh, my God! What's that? – Speculated, high-risk speculation in your area of responsibility. You have lost every right to ever take the word “neoliberal” into your mouth, for what you have done is the level of increase. With you, the locusts, the red network, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Propossibility: I read in the newspapers – and yesterday I heard it – that Mr Darabos was asked how he could answer that a trade union bank BAWAG/P.S.K. the Eurofighter purchase pre-financed. You have to know! The trade union bank participates in a call for proposals from the financing agency on the pre-financing of the Eurofighter purchase. By far the best offer BAWAG/P.S.K. – Your bank, ladies and gentlemen, is financing the Eurofighter pre-buy. These are the SPÖ members who polemize inside and outside against the Eurofighter buy! [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Scheibner.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So far you've brought it: Do business with it and then go out and polemize against it! How do you actually keep it with your responsibility in your areas? A former Director-General cashes 50 million schilling, gets a new job with 300 000 € per year, staying in a penthouse of the BAWAG, as I believe swimming pool on the roof. This is someone – Weninger – with whom you have done the Caribbean business and, subsequently, this strike fund action. – Far have you brought it with your credibility, ladies and gentlemen! Propossibility: I read in the media that the trade union federation, the red ÖGB, still has a liability of € 120 million. But for what? - For a casino in Jericho! For a casino you are liable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's locked!]] But that's not enough. You have brought it so far in the Chamber of Workers and in the ÖGB under the leadership of SPÖ that you demise the employees and advance through the Chamber of Workers and Trade Unions. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: AMAG!]] I mean the employees of the AMAG in Upper Austria, who want to own their property from their employee participation, but who cannot, because the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB forbid this! – So far you have brought it: It is not for, but for, the workers, your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another example of how far you have brought it: There is this interest-rate clause debate. All banks have agreed with the Consumer Information Association. Who's not? The BAWAG, she's going the right way. Locker on speculation, hard on small customers – that's your understanding, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Scheibner said: Don't see, don't hear anything, nothing talking is your motto. I welcome you: don't know anything and don't want to answer anything – as far as you've brought it, ladies and gentlemen! If you cannot manage – SPÖ – a country cannot lead. Those who are unable to operate cannot make a responsible social policy. Of course, those who are unable to manage the economy cannot make a successful labour market policy. – They have played any credibility. You have a K problem, no competence, and a G problem, no credibility. That is why it is true what a renowned journalist wrote last year: “Market plus Marx returns Murks!” – Just proved again!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15025	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. His welcome time is 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15049	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr Scheibner, you have said that you do not want a kindergarten here, so let us let go of the political change of coins and the questions of kindergarten and let us get to the heart of the matter! [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that! I told you to set up one!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] First of all – and this has been missed by the Minister of Finance, first of all, if the financial centre is already important to him –: The BAWAG/P.S.K. Group is today a solid bank with 3.3 billion euros equity. [[Abg. Scheibner: We all said!]] There is no risk of any single euro of investor money. And there is no reason for such a crisis to be addressed today. – This must be said to the people who have their savings books at BAWAG and the 6 000 employees there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, What does Parliament, every ordinary Parliament, deal with in such a case? With the question: Why can this – despite the rule mechanisms generally adopted by this House – happen in spite of the safeguards that are intended to prevent a bank from coming to the brink of the abyss in this sensitive part of the Austrian economy? Why have the mechanisms failed? We have three safeguards in this system, which I would like to name at this point. First: Each bank must have an internal revision. This is regulated by law and this must work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The second security is the bank auditor. This bank auditor has to restrict or fail the confirmation note if – and this leads back to the first point – the internal revision, that is, security one, has failed. [[Call the ÖVP:Tumpel ask!]] In this case, the auditor shall not provide an unlimited statement of confirmation. In addition, the legislator has reasonably provided that according to § 63 para. 3 Immediate reporting – and I remain in the legal situation in 2001 – to the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Call the ÖVP: Did he do it?]] Then there's a third security, and that's called banking supervision. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Did he do it?]] We'll talk about it soon, Mrs. Hakl! Before the existence of the FMA, that is, before the speculations, the Federal Minister of Finance was the head of the government. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Yes, Mr. Edlinger, for example!]] - No, it doesn't work because you didn't look at it exactly. We have heard in the answer that a on-the-spot check took place in 1994. This has provided detailed conditions for those special transactions to be carried out in the course of the operation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] This includes a number of measures relating to internal revision, including a number of measures relating to annual internal audit and reporting. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Six years is the cycle for on-the-spot testing by the OeNB. In the sixth year – that was, everyone can expect it, 1994 plus six years, in 2000 – the Minister of Finance has rightly reviewed the examination with a decision of 1 January 2000. ==References====External links== Now I come to the point – Mr Molterer, you can save the laugh! –: [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: No excitement!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] In this report, which was not true of him ten minutes ago here in his reply, the €350 million expressly on page 27. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: No!]] It was inside that there was a suspicion that the risk was exceeded. – I read it to you, Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Read everything in there!]] In the case of a uniform view of this commitment, if there were to be an overrun of the large caps, compliance with § 42 BWG does not appear to be guaranteed. - Quote. It was said that the annual internal audit last took place in October 1998 and then only once more formally and then not again. And it is precisely these three points, as we now know, that have led to disaster. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] And now the Minister of Finance comes and explains to us here in his reply to the question... – The representatives of the ÖVP are a little nervous, Mr President, perhaps you will be able to restore the peace. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The Federal Minister for Finance took place on 27 July. April 2001 this... – I am already coming to this point. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Painful!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Note: Backup one burnt through, because the internal revision does not work. - So his own examiners. Secondly, He automatically knew that the bank auditor failed as a second security, because he must report immediately if the internal revision does not work. At the latest with the presentation of the 2000 audit report, he knew that the second security was burnt. ==References== April 2001 Karl-Heinz Grasser knew that the Caribbean business continued that the requirements were not met that the internal revision did not work, that the recommendation... – Wait! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Defense continues!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] He also knew that the large exposure risk limits had been exceeded. But what did the Minister of Finance do? – Nothing in the first year! Nothing in the second year! Nothing in the third year! Nothing in the fourth year! And before yesterday, he woke up and said, Now we're going to look at this very carefully! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Have you not been careful to answer the questions?]] Banking supervision, the last and most important guarantee that this National Council has set up as a legislator, failed in the form of the head of authority Karl-Heinz Grasser – Mr. colleague, you obviously do not understand the world! – which is the banking supervisor, the authority set up by the legislator to prevent assets from being playful – to the risk of a bank. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] There, management has done business that was contrary to the legal regulations. But what did the Minister of Finance do? – He asked himself here and tried to avoid the missing question. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I have answered this very question!]] Now I come to the point where you knew. Why is Mr Scheibner's urgent question missing exactly the question? What was the result of the on-the-spot check after the year 1999? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He read it!]] –Because he already knew he had no answer to that! That's why the question is missing. The knowledge of Mr Grasser, who has not done anything in the face of the gross infringements of the BWG, is a question that we have to deal with because of the functionality of the entire financial market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't need to be so nervous, Mr. Molterer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The failure of the banking supervision and of the responsible State Secretary is a failure within the Austrian Federal Government. [[New ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That's the economic competence you're supposed to be so proud of. And I tell you the following: If he had only 10 percent as much backbone and propriety as Fritz Vergestnich, he would have already declared his resignation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the screens: Mr Vergestnitsch, with his guarantee performance, has prevented one by means of the strike fund... – It is a welcome speech time, Mr. Cot. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It won't be transferred anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Did the cap tell you that this is being transferred?]] I know that you are uncomfortable, Mr Molterer, because I am now coming to your behaviour. With his guarantee, Mr Vergestnitsch has ensured that hundreds of thousands of savers and 6,000 employees have not been harmed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] When four pension funds were so engrossed in 2002 that they could not balance, did the owners sign the guarantee? – That was a expropriation, the Constitutional Court has told us today. It was only allowed because of the need. And how does ÖVP's economic competence look? – You took it away from the investors! Your economic competence is to harm the investor! – Thank you, I do not need and do not need such economic competence! They expropriated that was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. This is your kind of economic policy! And did Minister of Finance Grasser do something in the pension funds, put in a supervisory measure? - None! The managers are still there. Has a measure been taken in the case of Elsner, although the internal revision does not work? - No! Would it have been possible for Mr Vergestnich to do it legally at all? – Do you know who could legally be the only one? The Federal Minister for Finance! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] According to § 70 para. 2 of the Banking Act, he was only able to release Director-General Elsner, set up a government commissioner and make orders. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Would you like that? Oh, that's it!]] Only the Minister of Finance, no one else! He knew...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15416	Your speaking time is over. The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15434	Therefore, we take note: It has also failed the third backup. – Responsibility: Karl-Heinz Grasser and the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15467	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15495	Mr President. High house! As Mr Matznetter referred to the on-the-spot review, I would like to express the actual word of the report. The Oesterreichische National Bank's on-the-spot examination took place on 14 June. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== To this end, the National Bank shall: The drawing of loans worth €350 million in different offshore companies is problematic due to risk equations. If these claims were calculated together, the large-scale investment limit of 25 percent of the eligible own funds would be violated. Due to weak performance, the claim has already been returned in December 2000, and no detailed examination has been carried out. The BAWAG Group does not stand in any ongoing business relationship with Dr. Wolfgang Flöttl or one of its companies. And now it comes: Evidence of this execution was a written statement by the BAWAG of 16 April. January 2001. Professor Van der Bellen, you just recently complained about the word “lying. ” What do you mean? What's that? Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: A lie!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15529	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15554	Mr President. Mr Finz, State Secretary, claimed that the statement included Dr. Flöttl and his companies. – In fact, this statement referred to Dr. Wolfgang Flöttl or one of his companies. This answer will be verified. It is unfair that it is “the companies of the Flöttl” because investment banks are not private property.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15590	We are now continuing in the debate. Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Van der Bellen, for his excellent report. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15614	Mr President. Mr Matznetter, your counterattacks in honor, but... [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The fact is that this affair around BAWAG and the ÖGB of course allows the government parties to sidetrack from their mistakes: from the labour market miscarriage, from what is happening at schools and universities, from how it is about women's employment and what is happening in energy policy. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You don't want to reveal anything?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Austria is well standing!]] All this is not a topic at the moment! We must take note of that. The fact that the government parties are grateful to this affair is no wonder. I do this in a certain way twice: first of all, because it allows the government parties to sidetrack from their own mistakes and failures, and second – and this is even more important – because the Greens want strong trade unions in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Don't you want to find out?]] We Greens want a strong representation of the interests of workers. [[Abg. Murauer: Like us!]] We want these trade unions to be as energetic as they have been, and, if they have to, represent these interests with threats of strike – with economic policy in mind. The Austrian trade unions are internationally well-known for keeping the balance between the different interests of their policies in the past very good. This call is to be defended! – But I actually have to say: This call is to be restored, because what has happened has, of course, triggered a crisis of confidence around the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, and the credibility of this institution has been clearly expressed. The ÖGB and the SPÖ – the SPÖ can't pretend it doesn't do anything about it! – have already been called upon to counter it with very painful measures, and I do not think that is enough what has been done so far. Among other things, I am convinced that – this is a very essential point and, as I mean, very painful for the ÖGB and possibly also for the SPÖ – the ÖGB should separate itself from the BAWAG. For a number of reasons, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation should separate itself from this bank, because for years – not only since yesterday, for at least 15 years! – there are insoluble conflicts of interest between the union on the one hand and this bank on the other, but also within the individual trade unions, to be observed. They deal with massive problems of credibility in the ÖGB, in the Chamber of Workers and, of course, in the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last occasion of yesterday was the Eurofighters. - Well, it's classic! The BAWAG has taken over the pre-financing of the Eurofighters! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Van der Bellen was surprised too!]] You really have to break that on your tongue! All I have to say is: The bank is a bank, a stock company, for the bank this is a normal business. But how does this look for the ÖGB, for the trade unionists, to the extent that they are socially democratically oriented, which can be said by the Greens and the SPÖs on a daily basis – and not with injustice – on a daily basis: This is the biggest misinvestment in the history of the Second Republic!? – And then the union bank makes the prefinancing of the Eurofighters. So if this business has been flawed by the Minister of Finance, I have to say: Respect! This is pure Machiavellism! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] I've been thinking for a long time and then I've been wondering: What would be similar on the side of the Greens? Then I came up with the following: If the Greens – adopted; it is unthinkable, but we have thought much unthinkable – would think 10 percent of Temelín, how would we stand today? [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative applause with the ÖVP.]] This is not how it is done, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! Second point concerning BAWAG and ÖGB: A strong union needs wealth. A strong union needs liquid financial means to be able to face a strike in a serious case or, more cautiously, to be able to threaten crediblely with a strike. But is it really reasonable, I ask you to entrust the entire assets of the ÖGB institution to a single institution? Would you act like a private person? If you had some private property, would you really act like that? Even from the point of view of risk distribution, it is necessary to spread this asset more widely than only with a single institution – apart from the fact that this institution could also take advantage of it, as we now know. Next point: Is it really reasonable to keep the strike fund, as I removed the media, partly – if not half or even more than half – as BAWAG shares? Calculated as BAWAG shares? How do you intend to make this liquid financial means in case of strike? Do you want to borrow these BAWAG shares from BAWAG? - I can't do that! Do you want to go to CA or the first and say: We have 3 per cent of BAWAG shares here, please regret this because we have a strike in front of us!Unknown term type: "%s".? All this is unimaginable! It has to be organized differently! You don't need your own bank. On the contrary: The credibility of ÖGB – and this is a very important point for me – is more damaged than promoted by the ownership of BAWAG. Please think about it! In general. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] This conflict of interest to hold a cash-cow on the one hand – at least you hope that this bank is to issue a bank that is supposed to issue dividends, dividends that naturally have to be based on profits and, if it has to be, based on profits from international financial speculation – and on the other hand, to complain 24 hours a day, how bad these international financial speculators are – today, for example, Erich Haider from Upper Austria has heard again how I have sadly taken out of APA that it is really peazy and terrible and terrible; but at BAWAG it is all right! – you won’t stand it for the long run, it doesn’t work together. Distinguish You're from this bank! In the person tumpel is only personified, which is the basic problem: President Tumpel, in particular, has never been tired – and still does not tire of – of complaining at every opportunity, of Turbo-Capitalism and financial markets and globalisation, all of this is terrible in this world, but if it does BAWAG, then it is obviously all right. [[Abg. Head: Where he was Chairman of the Supervisory Board!]] Mr Tumpel personally presided over the Supervisory Board in BAWAG for ten years, and during his term of office two decisions were made to take up or resume the Caribbean business – first with Director-General Flöttl and then with Director-General Elsner. At that time it was all right, today he obviously does not want to remember it. This is also a serious credibility deficit for tumpel, ladies and gentlemen. The Chamber of Labour really needs to consider whether the interests of the Chamber of Workers can be represented by such a person crediblely. - I don't think so. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] Vergestnich has resigned as ÖGB President, but he has also resigned as a National Council Officer of SPÖ – for good reasons, certainly well-considered. But there is already a problem, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and also of the ÖVP, that the leaders of the union, whether in the SPÖ Group or in the ÖVP Group – the successor of Vergestnich is Mr Katzian, who is the chairman of the GPA, the largest union at all, and Mr Neugebauer, the chairman of the union union service, is also here mandated and President Hundstorfer, the Interim President, is a member of the social democratic club or chairman of the municipal council in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, consider That's what you're doing! There are conflicts of interest between management functions in the ÖGB or in the AK or wherever and a National Council mandate from a political party. I'd be glad if you could create clear conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Scheibner, at the end of your speech, you mentioned party financing. – Thank you for having us You'll suddenly find it on our side! Only: You forgot one thing: What the SPÖ might get from the ÖGB as a private association for financial donations is a crack compared to what the ÖVP receives from the industrial association and similar associations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just washed, unknown who the individual donor is, about the mediation of the industrial union! Completely legal in Austria – completely legal, I emphasize! Only: In Germany, you would be punished with prison sentences. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15786	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15808	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Csörgits, Vice-President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, is not here at the speaker's desk: How much do you know about the whole situation? [[Abg. Scheibner: Nothing at all!]] Why don't you come in? – Don’t tell me, Mrs. Colleague, and some others, like Mr Katzian, that you don’t know what happened! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't imagine that the union membership contributions are your property! These are members' contributions, but it's not your property you can do what you want. I'm sorry! I represent the workers outside, I represent the members, and I have been a member myself for 37 years. I am employed in a medium-sized company in Upper Austria, where there are almost 100 percent members, almost 100 percent organized. In the future, I'll think about it when someone comes to me. I got a lot of calls now, people said: Mr Walch, I am leaving the ÖGB because it can't be that way; I've never been on vacation in the Caribbean because I can't afford it, and the ÖGB officials or certain people are wasting the membership contribution in the Caribbean – if not! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Interesting is the following: Col. Matznetter – this is the best anyway – now makes the perpetrators a victim! [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] That's really the most beautiful! Are you the legal adviser to the SPÖ, or are you perhaps involved? One thing would interest me: Mr Gusenbauer, what happened on Sunday? – On Saturday, Mr Vergebnitsch said: No, I'm not retiring, that's not going to happen at all! Throughout the Sunday, Mr Gusenbauer has been talking intensively with Mr Cottem Vergestnitsch, and at midnight the turnaround has come. On Monday I heard, a long holiday will take place – perhaps in the Caribbean? Or where does he do that? I find it unheard of what happened! I ask the Trade Union Confederation, whose officials are 99 percent SPÖ and SPÖ delegates, to inform you accordingly, and especially you, Mrs Csörgits. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I really have to say that you don't speak up, I think... I don't know. Don't say anything. I hope that the public prosecutors will examine exactly what all the Vice-Presidents, especially your group, knew and where they said yes. The worst thing is my colleague, Tumpel, who always knows when to criticize something. Now at once it becomes quieter around the boys: Now we're all submerged, hopefully we don't meet, now we're showering a little. - That's not it! Member can and must not be dealt with in this way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You've been delivering the evidence for a long time. One more thing I have to say. Just as the SPÖ Oberösterreich, the colleague Schopf, the AK President in Upper Austria have a ban on entry to Braunau to BAWAG because they are working against the interests of the union members, so will the colleague Csörgits. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... tear under the nail!]] It will also have a ban on entry into the establishments because the members will say: We don't need her because she or her is dealing with our money like this! When you look at this: This is the case with the BAWAG, that was the case with Bank Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why don't you complain...?]] Such a self-service shop as it is in the ÖGB, so that these officials can afford a discharge – they have made their own statutes, according to which there are 24 monthly salaries as a discharge when you leave the ÖGB after 25 years – I find that unheard of! This is about the membership contributions of the employees. There is 80 per cent of the pension! An additional pension is paid by the ÖGB to its functional, 80 percent of the last one! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] We abolished it from the officials, we said: Now we're making equality. But at the ÖGB this is not the case! Col. Csörgits, I'm just curious who is standing up at the Federal Congress in June, who of you still trust there and who is telling the truth at this Federal Congress. I still demand from the current management of the ÖGB – after all, there will no longer be any more – that an independent specialist be there talking and answering about what really happened to the Caribbean business. Today, in the newspaper, I read that Flöttl, where he is now located – in the Caribbean – was addressed by a media man to what is going on. He was quite surprised and said: I didn't do anything, but I'm going to unseal what happened here in Austria and who knows everyone. – So dress well, it really doesn’t look good for you! [[Abg. May. Darabos: 2 per cent BZÖ!]] Vergestnicht has resigned. At least I would have expected Wenninger, who is the chief financial officer, to take his hat immediately. Actually, he's not supposed to be there anymore, because you can cover up certain things, I have to say that honestly. He had to get away from there immediately, and another chief of finance should have been set up. But it's supposed to be so common in the SPÖ or the ÖGB. Mr Gusenbauer, I would also like to know from you – I hope this will come to light – how much the SPÖ was co-financed by the ÖGB and by the AK. This applies to party advertising anyway, because the ÖGB and the AK make opposition policy and accordingly advertising for the opposition. I hope this is where light comes into the dark for the benefit of the workers. The poor at BAWAG are now the ones at the bank desks. They have to be insulted and have to bathe out what ÖGB officials have done, which has been led by the high leadership of abuses in the BAWAG. They have to be insulted, they have to be insulted, and many say goodbye there. For thousands of workers, the job is in danger. This is your incompetent economic policy! You've shown it for decades, and I hope you never come back to the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15939	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e15961	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The SPÖ's contributions to the debate seem a bit strange. You are trying here an unprecedented distraction maneuver – Mr Matznetter in a proven way – which you do not succeed in any way, because people know exactly what has happened. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Exactly!]] The Bank BAWAG, owned by the ÖGB, has speculated €1.4 billion – as far as it is known – and for this you bear responsibility, but not the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: So far!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The message is a simple one. Imagine a fireman who sets a fire and then goes out with his company and wipes out that fire. And what's the SPÖ doing? - She's gonna put an order on this fireman. That is the policy, the economic policy of the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Darabos: You've been more original!]] Your problem is a huge one: They demand social justice and have lost any social responsibility. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Go, please!]] You are criticizing the lack of jobs in employment records, and wherever you say it, you are destroying thousands of jobs! Whether in the “worker’s newspaper”, whether in the national industry, in the “consumer” or in the ARBÖ – this is not a question for the SPÖ! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I forgot to say this: All this, ladies and gentlemen, does not concern SPÖ! Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, that's why Mr. Parnigoni, who is a Member here, was only a week ago – or was it ten days? – resigned from the Board of Directors of the ARBÖ because the SPÖ is not concerned with what is going on there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Murauer: Why?]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] That is why your honourable Member has resigned because all of this does not concern the SPÖ. Today in the early days, when Mr. Katzian was praised, it was quite interesting: His first interlocutor, for about an hour, was Mr Parnigoni. They probably discussed the new economic concept of SPÖ, I can imagine. It is truly incredible to criticise the “husband-capitalism” – and your tops in the Austrian trade union are speculating in this area in a way that is extremely problematic! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You weren't even there at his Angelobung! You're lying!]] [[Calls at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I ask myself, Mrs Csörgits, Mr Leutner – I do not see him now, he is the head secretary of the ÖGB – Mr Katzian: Why do you not speak in this debate today? Do you know who was the SPÖ's first speaker in this debate? – Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce! The SPÖ deputy Matznetter speaks for the defence of the ÖGB and the BAWAG, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of the SPÖ, speaks for defence! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Csörgits! Mr Leutner! Mr Katzian! Don't you have anything to say on this subject? Or can't you because all of this doesn't matter to the SPÖ? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Darabos, because you are calling in from the first row: Unfortunately, I could not follow your comments in the report. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Shame!]] They were invited to the subject; although SPÖ is not involved, the SPÖ managing director goes. [[Abg. May. Darabos:... was invited by ORF!]] Then you'll say, One has to distinguish, because if a trade unionist is in the bank as a supervisory board, he is a trade unionist in the Supervisory Board. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] This is an interesting statement, because it completely destroys your credibility, your credibility in all the questions you criticize; if, for example, the President of the Chamber of Workers of Tumpel from 1987 to 1997 is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the BAWAG and at this time tolerates, blesses and approves these speculations, if the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation assumes liability, together with the chairman of the Foundation – perhaps there is nothing inside, perhaps have She has finally cleared this foundation – and if you are trying in a strange way to save this bank. That is what you wanted to say, that this would have been a heroic measure that President Vergestnich saved the bank. Do you know what would have been decent if you had wanted to save the bank? – inform your German partner, ask him if he is willing to accept the liability, and thus really assure investors that their funds are safe! That would have been your job, and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a member of the Chamber of Labour, and I'm telling you [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Poor Chamber of Workers!]] A president of the Chamber of Labour, who tolerates such a procedure, has played out the last credit – in the double sense of the word!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16189	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes, facts against facts, Mr Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16235	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon claimed that I had been discussing the SPÖ's economic programme with Mr Katzian for an hour. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm actually correcting that that doesn't correspond to the truth. [[Abg. You don't have an economic programme!]] – Let me say that, please. Thank you. I often and very much like to talk to Wolfgang Katzian, my chairman in the GPA, whom I have been listening to for over 40 years, and I can assure you: This discussion today about a successful SPÖ economic programme took only a quarter of an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16288	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 6 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16321	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem that has arisen in replying to this urgent question would have been that, Mr Finanzminister, you would have been a little more objective than a member of the government and less populism of the politician Grasser. It's always been left out a little bit, always a little bit, it's just a lot not answered correctly. [[Abg. Murauer: What, for example?]] What would be good for you is to say once again that you have to separate between management and owners. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What the management of the BAWAG has done is to be justified by nothing, and we too completely distance ourselves from what the management of the BAWAG has done there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's not a good thing at all, I'll give you all the right. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Why are you getting upset? – I’ll give you all of a sudden Right: This management was just wrong. [[Abg. Rädler: Then exchange it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] No excitement! I'll give you the right anyway. But I would have expected the Minister of Finance to make a separation between management and owners. As the owner, President Verzellnich has taken over a responsibility which seeks to do the same. [[Call to the ÖVP: You do not believe this!]] He has tried in a difficult situation to protect the small savers who have invested funds at BAWAG, namely those with the small savings books, from damage, by offering a liability from the union federation to ultimately stop the mismanagement actions and give the BAWAG a chance to develop again. [[Abg. May. Tancsits:... Member contributions!]] [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] Dear friends, this activity is six years ago. The BAWAG has been doing well since then, and he has saved the jobs with it. There are at least 6 000 jobs he has saved with this action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, he has done nothing else but live up to his responsibility as the owner – which does not justify the fact that there was a mismanagement there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But that has been the case with the Minister of Finance since 2001 – that is, since 27. April 2001 – has been known, is reflected in the report of its own test bodies. [[Abg. Rädler:... excuse yourself!]] He's known since 2001. He could have been active too! [[Ironic cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Why didn't that happen? Perhaps he had the same motivations as Fritz Verzetznich and thought: I keep the financial centre Austria for damage and don't do anything. Or he had the consideration: We'll dig it out soon before the election. [[Call the ÖVP: Keep the thief!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There is also this possibility – and you could say this quietly – that he may have chosen the time right now, namely before a choice to blow into a fire that is really dangerous, because it also has an impact on raiffeisen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... also exchange!]] I am now with Mr Molterer if we already want to open up the story. Here's a Member of the Raiffeisen: What about, for example, the Parmalat? What's the matter? Did I hear anything from the black lines? Parmalat – there Raiffeisen has put 80 million in the sand! I remind you of a few stories, such as the NEWAG – where the Director-General Gruber is arrested at once –; the “Libro” plea, a classic; Herberstein – for the Styrian Members. If we are already there, I would just like to keep your economic competence in mind. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] There's enough to clean up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, it is not as simple as you do, even if you accuse my colleague Tumpel that he knew everything. [[Abg. Rädler:... the city of Wiener Neustadt led into the pleite!]] I would then like to show the Vice-President of the ÖVP a face so that you can remember well! [[The speaker presents a photo of Dr. Kurt Faltlhauser on the speaker's desk.]] This is the Minister of State for Finance of the CSU in Bavaria – still state ministers, and at the time of the pleite also state ministers. This was in the Supervisory Board of BAWAG from 1996 to 2004. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Dr. Fekter and Steibl keep up-to-date issues of “NEWS” and “profile” with the headlines “The Luxury Life of BAWAG Bankers” and “The ÖGB Debakel”.]] You've always kept in touch with this, because that's a sister party of yours! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know that you have the same information as we do! You have the same information, and the CSU – for your information – is not a precursor to the social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16557	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16580	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not funny. [[Abg. Steibl: Sad!]] - Just like that. Of course, it is very tempting to pay attention to the fact that the Greens can be pushed into a arbitral role. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're not that important!]] But it won't be that simple either. I will probably be able to make a few comments and comparisons in the six minutes, which are very likely to relate to the behaviour of the Ministry of Finance and to similar cases with the EIA, but it can only be true that we are turning to the occasion also and first of all. The great tragedy – which is why I say, not funny – is first of all the fact that the credibility of the union union is now much worse than before. – This is the thing that affects us at least more than that we could just spread hams there. Investment in the credibility is now in place! But what is necessary? Perhaps the positions of social democracy and greens differ, because what happened there and has led to all the incidents is not even comparable to locust capitalism. You actually have to find or use a more dramatic term. For example, one could agree on “Casino-Capitalism” – not because of the casino in Jericho, although that is also a comic story, but because one should also class certain businesses from banks once after, what closeness they actually have to real economic transactions. There is a locust-like process still relatively closer to a normal business, because it is about getting in and out of corporate equity. But what we're talking about today is pretty much the worst end of the scale: pure business with derivatives, pure speculation. That is why, I believe, the term ‘Casino-Capitalism’ is quite appropriate, and we have seen where this can lead. So I would not continue to play the judge in this case. It could also be asked if there were not also a few profits inside and if the net loss for the BAWAG is perhaps lower anyway. – We could do all that, but it's not our job. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The point is that since credibility is not only at stake, it is already lost so far that it would have to be regained from the union. And now the question is: From my point of view, it is perhaps less the problem of Mr Tumpel that he did not understand what he was referring to at the time. – Things are very complicated, he even knew something. But one cannot be pushed away – neither from the speaker's desk, nor elsewhere, nor from the president's chair of the workers' chamber – namely, that there must be something like a selection debt. The point was not that some supervisory councils – sent from the ÖGB to the BAWAG – did not understand what was going on, and did not notice how they were being besieged. However, they have to answer one in full knowledge, namely that they have put managers there who operate as they have been driving. This alone further justifys the question of political responsibility and also justifys that we have so far called on Mr Tumpel to go in and think about whether he is still in the right place. This is not only about the BAWAG and the ÖGB, but also about the credibility of the Chamber of Workers. That is why we strongly appeal for Mr Tumpel to continue to suspend these reflections. He certainly doesn't have it easy either, but I think the next steps are inevitable. I had to note that, and I think, exactly, that nothing else makes sense. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. School.]] A proof that the ÖGB should separate itself from the BAWAG in the medium term – but not overnight and not with Hurra – was indeed this mentioned example – and that is again particularly painful – of Eurofighter financing. Why is that really a problem? – It is simple and gripping that one has to recognize these incompatible roles again. What would he have done, Mr President, if he had come to Parliament in the early days, if we - or you - had brought in a urgent one again? – He probably meant that we're making a little bit of a cut in funding, and a little what we're going to do with the Caribbean loss, but now we're going to argue about it. And in the evening, when he goes out, he might have thought, the colleague Pilz was wonderful again, but the contract is not yet lifted, and is glad again that there is a bit of a BAWAG cut. - That's not how it works. In this example, it is relatively simple to make clear that in the medium term no way passes that the ÖGB separates itself in the interest of its credibility there also from the BAWAG. Now I say the following: What pains us particularly is that the BAWAG is now, of course, in the middle of a game that we call a large-scale slide – I take this term back into my mouth and not back – and this, of course, makes the whole thing difficult. But I do not hope that at the end of the negotiations it will then make the necessary conclusion of the contract difficult, because this matter would be, as it were, the bulging on the i, if it were still successful. You've done very skillfully: There was no invitation to tender for these loans, although it would have had such a dimension. – No, the financing agency has been commissioned by the Ministry to only call around. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] But to be smart always belong two, has been amazed at me earlier, namely, those who proceed smartly – that was the grass – and those who are being done with them cleverly and who have let themselves be drawn in. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] That is the next point of tragedy, and that also justifys a next step of separation. I'm just saying one sentence at a time: As regards disclosure of the party donations, all are cordially invited to take this step, SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Wheeler: You too!]] [[Abg. The Greens!]] If I look at what you have drawn out of the ESTAG and could only be stopped under the rule because you were caught in flagranti, then this is neither a proof of economic competence nor any reason to use it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16688	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16711	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, in fact, we are talking a little bit more about: You have said that it is now about bringing the reputation of the ÖGB and the credibility of the ÖGB back to the forerunner. I think we need to talk about the credibility of our banking location again, because not only damage to the BAWAG and damage in the political field has arisen. Let us take a look at the international opinions: It is discussed everywhere how the bank location is shaken, how this could happen in Austria. A supergau has happened – “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, “Frankfurter Allgemeine”, is written everywhere. That means we're not just talking about the ÖGB having a credibility problem. In fact, we are talking about damage at the site of Austria. And that's what the SPÖ seems to be able to do with bravour. – I am thinking of the year 2000, the sanctions. At that time our country was damaged, and this time we do it over the BAWAG. Ladies and gentlemen! If one summarizes the statements made by the previous speakers, then I think only one sentence is left: It is, in fact, an immense scandal! In reality, no one outside understands what has gone down there: Hundreds of millions, 1 billion € have been lowered, sent to the Caribbean, cross-links, and benzene economy. – No one understands! No one understands that a party-political supergau has actually happened – according to “consumer”, after BA-CA, after Bank Burgenland, according to the state, after the ARBÖ. It has already been reported today: Mr Schober from the Carinthian Landtag also had to go to the SPÖ. Now the BAWAG. [[Abg. May. Trunk: How?]] – At ARBÖ he had to go. [[Abg. May. Trunk: You said, from the country day...!]] No, I said, Mr. Schober from the Landtag. Please look at the Minutes, Mrs Trunk! You don't always have to overreact. I know the SPÖ in Carinthia has a mega problem with the ARBÖ, with the BAWAG, with the show, with the town panels. [[Abg. May. Trunk: And the head of state!]] But we can't do that. We can't do that. The elections will be wise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the subject is far too serious. billions of euros! – Heinz, billions of euros! [[Abg. Gradwell: The elections will be wise!]] We might have to represent this sum in a different way. Perhaps we should discuss it differently, because the normal person on the street cannot imagine how much money that is. It should be different once. – I took a few comparisons: For example, € 1 billion is equivalent to € 55 000 new VW golf. If they were to drive one after another, that would be a traffic jam from Vienna to Innsbruck. - That's that debt amount! – The comparison does not limp, that is the reality! Or in another area. [[Abg. Pepper: The comparison limps!]] – Max has already announced it: 1 billion € are 700 000 Caribbean. One could buy 700 000 long trips to the Caribbean around this money. Maybe you could connect this to digging there after a treasure, because the money must have come somewhere. You could give each other a trip. This morning we talked about the farmers. This € 1 billion is the entire support package of Austrian agriculture. It's cleaned away! Get into the plane, Gemma! REFCO, Flöttl, as they all call: In, get away with it! No one can understand this anymore, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your excitement shows yes... – Styrian Spirit! [[Abg. May. Trunk: Styrian Spirit!]] Mrs Trunk, let us relativize: Styrian Spirit – how did the three members of the SPÖ say they voted in favour? What did they say? You don't need to look into your paper! The SPÖ voted in favour. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Haider has the say!]] I insist that we were at the Styrian Spirit in Carinthia. We tried to get an airline to Carinthia. We have tried to create jobs. We tried to get MAGNA to Carinthia. We're trying to create jobs. What we are not trying to do is lower the money of small investors and ÖGB officials in the Caribbean! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, you can only be surprised – or shaken. My previous speakers have already said it. I was asked yesterday by the media whether I am now a BZÖ Secretary-General about the fact that the SPÖ comes in turbulence around this scandal, around the BAWAG. – No, you can’t be happy as a political opponent. In reality, you can't be happy if 1 billion € is destroyed. You can't be happy when the money is destroyed by small savers and investors. You can't be happy when things like that happen. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up to date.]] – We have once tried to present this graphically. You can look at these refreshments – sensational! Somebody needs to figure this out. The simple person outside is supposed to understand what links there are between Tumpel, his wife, Mr Zwettler, Mr Häupl, Mr Flöttl, Mr Versatznich, Mr Elsner, between BAWAG, SPÖ, ÖGB-Stiftung, National Bank and the like?- Oh, my God! These refreshments, ladies and gentlemen, are the reason – a red felt! – why nobody knows each other anymore. This is the reason why people no longer understand it. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why there is only one thing: remaining information on this matter, drawing consequences, carrying political responsibility, taking hat and going home! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16864	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Abg. Wattaul: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Puswald) Don't be ridiculous, too!]] – Mr Puswald, you know the rules. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16904	Madam President. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... the Puswald... Economic competence!]] Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall! Mr Scheuch has just claimed that it was the savings of small savers that had been destroyed by BAWAG. – This claim is wrong! There has not been a single cent of BAWAG's savers and investors destroyed or even called into question.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16973	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e16994	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This was an interesting conclusion by Mr Puswald. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You understand! You have economic competence!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - Yes, thank you. If a bank spends € 1 billion, then in your opinion this will have no effect on the customers, investors and the owners of the bank. – I take note of this. Once I think the bank might be able to make better conditions, for example, if it were better, or perhaps also to send other dividends to the owner for his capital than it will unfortunately be able to do in the next few years because of this painting. - So an interesting observation. But I'll talk to you later. Ladies and gentlemen! Kogler is right when he said earlier, it's anything but funny. Austria's financial centre has been heavily affected and discredited. The BAWAG, a renowned banking institution in this country, has been massively discredited, yes, to the edge of the ruin. - That's not funny. Of course, management is the first address of criticism. Of course, the managers have done these things. But the last ones to be held responsible here and to be held responsible are probably those inspectors who have been knowingly and deliberately deprived of information – probably even with criminally relevant information. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you want to make them the culprits? The police are the culprits, and not the perpetrators? – So I always prefer the protection of the victim to me than the protection of the perpetrator, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What opens up here is an economic, a moral and a political debacle of the SPÖ. Landesbank, “Consum”, Bank Burgenland, BAWAG, Versatlichte, Bank Austria, ARBÖ and, last but not least, SPÖ with their economic problems, all these problems work according to the same knit pattern. [[Abg. Heinzl: She doesn't have the ÖVP?]] Socialist political managers or officials come in economic decision-making functions. What's going on? – Pleite, an economic debakel brand SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion is as follows: The SPÖ cannot operate. Mr Parnigoni, if you had previously corrected that you had not talked to Mr Katzian for an hour, but only a quarter of an hour about the SPÖ's economic programme, I must tell you: Firstly, one can no longer talk about it, because there is no longer any room in it, and secondly, it is also a shame at around the quarter hour. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Humane!]] To the moral debacle that the SPÖ suffered there: What do you think about someone who does not inform the co-responsible in his own camp, in his own family about such a major problem that threatens his own organization? What do you think of someone who does not inform the co-responsible in the Supervisory Board and who, knowingly, deliberately provides them with information? Or what do you think about someone and his credibility, who tells his partner – not one who has 2 percent, but one who has almost as many shares in the company as he himself – not a word about these problems and puts him at risk of losing all of his shares? What does one think of the trustworthiness of such a person? – This is a massive breach of trust, ladies and gentlemen, of partners, friends and colleagues, but above all of economic partners – and that is close to crime, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But even the self-service shop, which has been built here by socialist managers and officials, who have simply taken part in trade union power, in community wealth, is obviously not bothering you at all! Not least, ladies and gentlemen, this is a political debacle of SPÖ. There is an interesting “competence team economy” at the SPÖ Tumpel, Muhm, Vergestnitsch and Zwettler were at Matznetter in the “Competence Team Economics”. And then they talked. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What? The Dwarf? BAWAG?]] – Yes, BAWAG – Zwettler. They have then constantly spoken of locusts, neoliberals, of turbocapitalism. I think they also need to know what they're talking about! This is the economic competence of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17120	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Herz. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17147	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Little surprising that my colleague's head is coming here as being just too personalized. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] If only I can remember ESTAG, for example, Spielberg, Parmalat. There are so many construction sites, there is so much to come in front of your own door that you should be a little more modest, dear colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen – I have a sports-parliamentary attitude – that there is harsh criticism, one can also overlook a certain heme, but certain things are not acceptable. When I read in the “Small Newspaper” of today that the Styrian ÖVP-Obmann Hermann Schützenhofer says “the social democrats are driving a bit” – ladies and gentlemen, who should not know this Styrian expression, that is to say, put on a footing – I must say that I consider this statement unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a derailment that is not to be taken, and I apologize. Mr Lopatka will hopefully do so if he still has a spark of democratic grace in his body. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grill: Why are you so upset?]] You know, Mr Grillitsch, I am not an orphan in formulations and I have received an order call for “adventure of the Chancellor” but to bird-heads, to tell lies from the government bank and to set up a “spitz” in newspapers I say something to you: In the face of violence in a democracy, the withdrawal of the threat and an excuse is necessary; otherwise, I tell you that, as it is, the ÖVP supervisor of Styria is retiring. [[lively ironic cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Continued ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Because Mr Molterer, who is now gone, dared to address the Eurofighters: Of course, education, but a real and everything about it! It may not be that the Austrian Federal President, the commander-in-chief of the army, does not know the contract – Mr Scheibner, you do not need to deepen now – or that the Minister of Defence obviously does not know the entire contract. Yeah, come on with the contract! And if you want to criticize that the Bundesfinanzagentur has chosen the BAWAG as the best bidder for pre-financing, this, ladies and gentlemen, is just the public proof that in the BAWAG the managers do what they think is right. The SPÖ is clear, and that's line: We do not want these Eurofighters, and we will continue to do everything we can to clarify this case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: The BAWAG knows the contract!]] As Mr Van der Bellen and others were so so surprised that this matter – BAWAG pre-financing the Eurofighters – is now becoming “known” – under quotation marks; Mr Fassleven, you smile inside, you just let the tanks rust and rot, but that's another story –: ==References====External links== This can be read for a long time on October 10, 2005. So, please, did the ÖVP not know at that time, didn't it read, the BZÖ, the Greens didn't? – Don’t be angry with me: To be so surprised today, that is self-evident! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Minister of Finance needed unusual words: lying, cheating. I thought: Why is our smart finance minister being so extraordinary? And then I've already thought, well, maybe someone's whistling out loud that goes through the forest. And then it turns out that the financial market supervision could have prevented the debacle. So it can't be like this: The Minister of Finance issued censorships yesterday, who did what was wrong and what was right, but today he himself looks very old. I am grateful to Mr Scheibner for his beautiful comparison with the thief and the police. So if Grasser is the police, he's been watching how the thief works. That's the situation. Your comparison, my dear colleague Scheibner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your defense is definitely limping too!]] A word to the ARBÖ because this has been raised. The ARBÖ will solve internal problems, but there is an external problem to the ÖAMTC, ladies and gentlemen. – By the way, Mr Lopatka, ask what the content of the ÖAMTC general looks like. The eyes like the Frankfurters will come out when you see what's under the line. But it wouldn't be like that alone. In the Styrian ÖVP, the ÖAMTC granted 10 million tax money to the ÖAMTC! – By the way, in debacle at Ö-ring, in Ö1-ring’s ÖVP debacle, in the case of this disaster – and in the case of this disaster – I have this incredible contract; we are still talking about it, concluded between Östering GmbH, the ÖAMTC, under the accession of the State of Styria – and do you know what has happened, ladies and gentlemen? [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] – Valueless vehicles, low-value properties, depolate buildings have been turned on to the country by a price of 10 million overpriced. – So much about the “total” economic competence of the ÖVP in general and in Styria in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: He doesn't want to talk about the BAWAG!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this election campaign, the ÖVP wants to impress with a booklet with garden tips by Wolfgang Schüssel – and that in the case of the highest unemployment in the Second Republic, in post office chess, in the case of legal breaks, in the case of refusal of control, in the case of democracy disassembly! [[Abg. Grandruck: Hello! What Does “Law of Law ” Mean?]] [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Then the voters will defy you! And I'll tell you something: Your bookshelf with garden tips is a single plantation!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17324	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17345	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr. Herb, among other things, is about 1.3 trade union members affected by this BAWAG story, about 1.3 million trade union members – thank you, excuse – who are affected and who are currently somewhat disappointed, insecured and, to a large extent, also outraged by what they hear. [[Abg. Big truck: millions!]] I don't think it's enough to take a defense and say it's not all the way it's presented, but it's going to be a question of clarifying it and telling people what's actually going on and what you're going to do in the future. I'll come back to this Eurofighter story you mentioned. It is not about who is now surprised that the BAWAG is pre-financing the Eurofighters – yes, the one at the BAWAG, will now be [[Abg. Grill: The one at the BAWAG!]] You may also know – but what it is about – is, for example – one of the contradictions or one of the areas of tension in which you are moving – that high-ranking trade union members in the ÖGB know that the BAWAG pre-finances the Eurofighters and here in Parliament are on SPÖ line against the Eurofighters. This is a contradiction that is simply not quite easy to resolve, or you will have to explain to me how it is. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that's a very important issue. It's not our story, but if you say it doesn't have to surprise us, I say, Miracles do me how you deal with something like that. The second point – this is a similar field of tension – concerns the activities of BAWAG. Because that a bank does business and that a bank also does business that we Greens don't always approve of, that's not a secret. I can recall a lot of panel discussions in connection with the World Trade Organisation, with Cancun and the like, where I sat on a panel with ÖGB representatives, with SP representatives, and we actually acted in great clarity and together against these financial speculations. At that time, we were sitting there as representatives of a real economy, while our opponents were sitting on another side. I ask you how you explain this to your trade union members that you are doing exactly what you have always fought in recent years with loudness and fullness. I see a contradiction, which is not least because I am also a trade unionist, and I would like to inform you about how you intend to handle this in the future. And last: Perhaps this whole BAWAG story is now an opportunity for the ÖGB to explore its structures as a whole, because the ÖGB is not well known for a particularly democratic structure. Perhaps it would also help to break through some control mechanisms or a democratic policy structure, which also ensures that there are accountability reports that there is transparent communication and that those who have the say in the ÖGB are also obliged to their members. That would at least be a good end to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17401	The next item is the speech by Mr Lopatka. Total speaking time for the ÖVP: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17423	Ladies and gentlemen! 17 Members of your ranks are members of the Trade Union Confederation, but not just members, but in leading positions. No one's signed up here. You know why. A dozen of your mandates are in a leading position at the ARBÖ. No one's signed up here. You know why. You have a very big problem in both areas. And the one who has reported here also has a big problem, namely, a problem of credibility. For me, your credibility problem is a bigger problem than that with the bank, because, ladies and gentlemen, if speeches and actions are as far apart as you are, then no one can believe anything anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The irony of fate wants it to be precisely in the hall that last Friday had to be announced that €1.4 million was lost in Caribbean business, €1.4 billion lost in Caribbean business, a year and a half ago Matznetter presented the SPÖ business programme. [[Abg. Auer: billions!]] Do you know what he said then? – He said: We can only afford a flourishing community if financial transactions are taxed Europeanally in Austria as well. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – Day and night, ladies and gentlemen! You have chosen the opposite way: in the Caribbean, controlling. But if you give Sunday's speeches, say the exact opposite. Tumpel has already set sails in the direction of Caribbean in 1995, and you claim the opposite here. Or the second point: Member of the Gusenbauer – it has already been said – addressed by a journalist: Wherever the SPÖ operates, from “consum” to “BAWAG” and “ARBÖ”, it goes wrong. What does he answer? – When the “consumer” went into bankruptcy, I was still a child – with 35 a child; You've already been sitting here in Parliament – says Dr. Gusenbauer. [[Lively cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] Tumpel? - We don't know him, says Gusenbauer. Do you know what he's saying to the ARBÖ? I'm not getting a call for order now, because I quote literally: “... that we have no influence on whether some of the officials have become crazy at the ARBÖ.” – Who do you mean? Parni-goni or Heinzl, the ARBÖ chief of St. Pölten? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I don't know? They're laughing. You know, you can't assume responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I say one thing: You can dunge here, you can dive, but if everything's all right, then maybe answer the Austrians a question. Let's do a game of thought, purely theoretical: Alfred Gusenbauer is embarrassed to form a government. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Your speaking time has expired!]] Faith You really think everything works so well there – or would you have a bad feeling? – suppose you take the Minister of Transport from ARBÖ management, you take the Minister of Economic Affairs from the “consum” – Gerharter is even younger than Androsch – and you take it because it fits, a finance minister from the BAWAG’s business office? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to prevent this, because that would be a disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17519	Deputies! Your time has really expired. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Dr. Lopatka.]] The next item is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. You have been given a 3 minute welcome. The total remaining time for the freedom club is 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17549	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka has quoted a few names here. I would like to deal with a person who is sitting here in Parliament, namely the spokesperson of the SPÖ, Mr Matznetter, because this idea, which has been offered here today, is already part of it. As Matznetter makes himself an economic speaker, knows that more than € 1 billion has been placed in the sand, that trade union funds have been used in an appropriate way, and then says: In reality, the Minister of Finance is to blame. – So there really is an unfrozenness to that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And it is really embarrassing if the economist then demands that the Minister of Finance withdraw. But it fits the picture of Matznetter. He has appeared here several times, but above all he has remembered us with the catastrophic economic programme. This has already played all the pieces, and such a caliber were probably those gentlemen who sat there at the BAWAG on the row and brought this disaster. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And I hope you will agree to this request after this ludicrous idea you have offered today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17607	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17689	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr deputies, you know the rules: In 2 minutes the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17720	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall! Mrs Partik-Pablé has just claimed that trade union funds have been used. – This claim is false! It is true that the trade union has not entered into any of the funds that have been used unlawfully, but into any liability that has not yet been beat.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17753	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is speaking on the floor. Total residence time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17774	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to give the SPÖ the opportunity now, perhaps, to consider whether anyone else is coming out and here is making a statement about the things that have happened. It can't be what you've delivered here. Skill You really imagine what a trade union member thinks, asking questions that simply want to know what happened, what consequences there are from how a trade union will be able to work actively for workers' interests in the future, which today has asked for answers? None of your trade union members can go to the speaker's desk here today. Ladies and gentlemen from the third and fourth series are giving explanations of which we can only be surprised. What's really going on in the SPÖ? That was a good thing. Increased members who are asking questions here as to how things continue. You haven't answered anything at all except that you're trying to re-adapt the Minister of Finance. Mr Wittmann says the management was disastrous. At least he admits that. But he did not say why management was then left to function, why Mr. Elsner had been the board of foundations for the ÖGB until last week. These are all questions that still stand in the room. You have not said whether this is really the right reaction, that Mr. Vogler will now become Chief Financial Officer, who has already been on the Supervisory Board in 1996 when all these Caribbean operations have been resumed. You didn't answer all these things. Finally, you have given no answer to the question of how this can be accounted for, that subsidies to your party from this area from 2001 to 2002 have increased from €2.5 million to €5.6 million. But silence is also a corresponding answer. I can only tell you the following: I take it from here today that in six years, unfortunately, we have not been able to make such things as they have now come to light impossible; to make it impossible for us to make a bulwark between a necessary representation of interests, a party that sees this representation as its own prelude, and a bank management and a bank control that then finances all of this. And I say to you that this can have an impact on the next elections, because the people will have the decision whether there will be the possibility that this will finally be made impossible in an Austria of 21. In the 19th century or if you want to go back to such an economy, to such a party politicization. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Just laugh! We will finally laugh because we have the responsibility for this country and for it, ladies and gentlemen, that such abuse of workers' interests must belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17829	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Total residence time for the SPÖ club: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e17850	Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! The Minister for Finance – he is no longer here – but also Mr Amon, I would like to say the following: Of course, these were all crocodile tears that you have shed here for the ÖGB and for the BAWAG. They are concerned with weakening the workers' side in the debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: You did it yourself!]] That's it! They were critics of your government policy, and they want to weaken you permanently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Don't come here, don't start crying here and ask what damage this all means! – This is the first point. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The second point is: Come on. They don't come here and pretend that there was only one single thing here that would understand the management of the BAWAG! [[Abg. Scheibner: Keep busy!]] Come on. You don't come here with that! The aim is to use all legal means to clarify the responsibilities until they have to make reparation. And don't assume here that there can only be any compassion for this failed management! This has to be said clearly once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're talking about Austria's banking square. I looked at Mr Lopatka's election line. You don't need to be afraid of that, because if you continue to develop this children's election campaign, that's not dangerous. But if you start to put a bank into the election campaign for six months now, you risk the reputation of all the banks. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Just the red swamp!]] And you know what people say outside. They say that's how it goes in all banks. - That's what they say outside. Yeah, that's what they say outside. And then you'll be surprised when the savers have no confidence in all the banks. That's your responsibility when you go this way. I can only warn you about that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The “standard” was on the first page on Saturday: BAWAG, on page 7: Raiffeisen, energy losses, investment losses, Georgia, Sparkasse Tirol. We can fix this. [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: Not in the way! The ÖGB... working people...!]] There are complete lists! We can also simulate Supervisory Board meetings here. Then you can choose a black bank, everything is possible, but it hurts the economy, it hurts the banking square. That's why you're supposed to be serious about this and not the way you do it. That's irresponsible, that's not economic competence, really not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the disk game at the beginning – who knew what?; I tell you in confidence, so it was, but Red’ not further – we can continue. We can then see who was sitting in the Supervisory Board when and as in the Supervisory Board. What about the state commissioners who are from the government? You, State Commissioner, I'm telling you in confidence, there's something running, but don't tell it any more. We can continue this game endlessly, up to the Minister of Finance. Hey, Karl-Heinz, hit an eye! Look out, watch out! - But yes, let's do it! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this game, everyone will be there! This is not a way of doing this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Last week the Elsner sat in the Foundation Council!]] If you want to fake economic competence, if you want banks in Austria to do reasonable business and really exist, then this is irresponsible. That's what I'm telling you: It's not a record of government ability. Really not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Toll scrolling distribution: Grasser with the thickest crocodile tears talking about the economy and so on. Then Lopatka, then Scheibner, then Amon. This role distribution here was indecent. That's all I can say. Dishonest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: [O Muhammad] With you only silence!]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's huge!]] You don't hear that. Now you have to listen to all this. And now we are talking about political responsibility! After the discussion started, President Verzellnitsch resigned. By the way, four board members have – just added – also resigned. Who has resigned from the government so far? – If I look at that... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Yes, if you laugh at the Grasser homepage, about Gehrer, about all the ministers who would have been long since retiring... I know that political responsibility is shared with you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Poor is that!]] We need to see it, you can't even spell it. That's exactly where the separation is given. And that's dirty! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I say – the Minister of Finance has said it itself: the Social Democratic Ewald Novotny is involved in the investigation here –: Not as if the Social Democrats were not interested. That's not how you can handle it. He works here; you should take note of this and not throw them all into a pot. This is really inappropriate. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now he's a social democrat again?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is a Social Democratic?]] You said: No ÖGB member came out. - We're all ÖGB members. We all feel called to get out of here. And we have clearly made our position clear here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was inappropriate what you did today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18097	Mr Amon spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18121	Mr. Dr. Cap claimed that the ÖVP was interested in weakening the workers' side. [[Abg. Eder: Exactly!]] I'm actually correcting: Nothing can weaken the workers' side more than the painters who have covered and defended socialist trade unions here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] 17. 46
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18160	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. Total remaining time for the green club: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18189	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After my previous speaker, Josef Cap, has completely unpredicted and spontaneously overcome the outrage, I would like to say that this has happened correctly in one point. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] If Fritz Vergestnich were not President of the ÖGB, but, let us say, the Caribbean State Secretary of the government had been Schüssel, he would still be in office and might have been transferred to the Ministry of Education. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] This is not irrelevant because in our country there is very rarely a sufficient political culture in terms of political and personal responsibility. Where resignations should have been the rule for a long time, it has not yet happened in any case. First point. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point. We Greens today – Alexander Van der Bellen has started with it, Michi Sburny and Werner Kogler have repeated it – pointing out some points and asking for clarification, explanation and consequences – not only in the perception of the control function of the National Council, but in the interest of a strong ÖGB. And an ÖGB can only be strong if it is trustworthy. He is only trustworthy if he is clean and if no shadow of an economic or political suspicion imposes on him. Our questions have not been answered today. Firstly, the question has not been answered: Are you ready – and the SPÖ has proven something to do with the ÖGB – to influence that the ÖGB separates itself from ownership at the BAWAG and prepares a solution in this regard? Secondly, Are you willing to influence the fact that the head of the Austrian Chamber of Workers and a future president of the Austrian Chamber of Labour can again count on full public confidence, not only of the people he represents? Thirdly, Are you willing to think seriously about how to deal with incompatible – not legally incompatible; there is no problem by law, but politically obvious – dual functions should be handled? Should it really be in the early days that a Supervisory Board wakes up and says, yes, when it comes to Eurofighter financing, we're going to make dazzling money, but, jessas na, I'm not allowed to miss the club meeting, because we're preparing a interception hunter-throat? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That can't be the future. Give the chairman of a single union, in particular to the future president of the ÖGB, this political mortgage does not mean that he may have to consider every day what he may also have to represent under the dictatorship of the SPÖ Club Force against the interests of his own trade union and trade union association! And one last thing: § 4 para. 4 Party Law – Herbert Scheibner, fortunately, has started today with it, that has not gone from us today – you can open up how many of so-called private interest groups, of economic associations based on “voluntary membership”, as it is called in the Party Act, have flown to the individual parties! Small note: In 2000, it was €1.7 million for SPÖ, €360 000 for ÖVP, €2.4 million for SPÖ in 2001, €570 000 for ÖVP, €5.7 million for SPÖ in 2002, €1.4 million for ÖVP and €20 000 for the liberals for the first time. In 2003 – in the Eurofighter Treaty year – € 990 000 for SPÖ, € 310 000 for the ÖVP and € 750 000 for the Freedom Party. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] In 2004 €1.7 million for the SPÖ, € 670 000 for the ÖVP, € 360 000 for the Freedom Party. Since 1990, this amounted to €23 million for the SPÖ, €12 million for the ÖVP and €3 million for the FPÖ. I would like to answer the question of an ÖVP colleague: Since 1990, no schilling, no grossen, no euro and no cent have been found to flow on any account of the Green Party, because under this title we have no money to obtain. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Open this up! Come on. You follow the call of Klubobmann Scheibner, and we will win back a little bit of credibility together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18259	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, Amon, colleagues on the complete investigation of the ÖGB BAWAG scandal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 176.) [[Abg. Gradwell: Why do you look so big?]] [[17:52:49]] Short debate on the reply to the question 3751/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18300	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 3751/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Parnigoni to open the debate as an applicant. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18334	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's incredible in itself – and that's what you've got to see – what kind of shocks have come here from the government groups in the last two and a half hours. [[Abg. Prince: These are not shakes! These are facts!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Facts!]] In contrast to these verbal attacks, we have it black-on-white by a reply to the written question 3849/J from me to the Federal Minister that ÖVP and Gehrer-Günstler Director Seipel has consciously stated to the public on several occasions the untruth to save his highly-dominated function as director of the Art History Museum. Ladies and gentlemen, this must have consequences! The facts are: In the “Tyrol daily” – but also in other newspapers – Seiel told the public the following – I quote –: “If the police hadn’t entered this deal with the culprit, he probably wouldn’t have betrayed the hideout of the ‘Saliera’.” What does the Minister of the Interior say about this? – I quote literally: ‘No, such a ‘deal’ was not closed with the suspect.’ And it goes on to say: ‘A deal of this kind is not permitted by law. Depending on the circumstances, the situation of the abuse would be fulfilled.’ High house! Mr. Seipel has not only said the untruth, he has also accused the police who brought back the “Saliera” stolen from his sloppy for the Republic. This is a disgraceful process that we deeply condemn! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the “ZiB 2” Seipel has repeatedly claimed the following – I quote –: We had tried shortly after the Tathergang to re-evaluate this intrusion with WEGA. It was not possible for WEGA to get in the same way after a hour and a half. - Quote. In turn, the Minister of State literally – I quote – says: ‘Clarification of the scaffolding and intrusion into the KHM would have been possible within minutes.’ So Seipel gave up a highly trained special command of the executive of ridiculousness and drew the inability. The third part of my question has been to the House of Lords, what you, Mrs Federal Minister, have done to counter Seizel's shocks to the executive. You said it would have been enough for you to comment on these comments in the “ZiB 3”. Ladies and gentlemen, that's too little for us, that's really too little for us! It is not enough that such statements and additions made in the general media will only be demented before a midnight television audience. We expect from you today and here a specific correcting of Seizel's insulting statements to the executive. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not correspond to the use of the House to use the word “lying”, so I place in the room whether these untruths are to be named differently, and ask the Director to finally take his hat. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Is this also true of tumpel?]] [[Abg. Is this one in the government?]] It has, by the way, become a trademark of this government that it has already abandoned our deserved executive in an outrageous way – whether in the case of the heavy-worker regulations, whether in terms of working conditions, or in the executive service law. In the last six years, this executive service law has been repeated, by German Chancellor Schüssel downwards, promised. Nothing has been attacked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! As if that wasn't enough. We still remember with horror the statements made by Mr Finz, the Secretary of State, who, about a month ago, met the legitimate concerns of police officers regarding the heavy-worker regime with an unprecedented derailment, when he said: They're supposed to get on the barricades! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a depressing example of how the government deals with its security guards. These statements reveal the lack of government responsibility towards the state, its security bodies and also towards the population. High house! We Socialists strongly oppose the years of ill-treatment of the executive – not only because it is through diligence, through courage, through special willingness to work, that corrective to this failed security policy of the government, and because the population is also suffering, but also the reduction of 4,000 plantations in the field of executives in the last five years has also dramatically pushed down the security standard of our country. We can prove it: There are more than 100,000 criminal cases and a drop in the education rate from over 50 percent to about 39 percent. And there one must be grateful to the colleagues of the executive, because there the completely revised remaining executives save what is still to be saved. Mrs. Federal Minister, the following is a fact – I hope you visit the same way I do some kind of police service to convince yourself of these unworthy working conditions: too few computers, too few software, outdated data lines, outdated deployment vehicles, mental and physically poached officials. Yes, not even the cleaning service works. On my last visit to a commissioner in Vienna, I found that the windows with paint residues were still contaminated today by the work done two years ago. The call for staff has stated: Yes, please, ladies and gentlemen, there is no cleaning service, you police officers can clean up the department themselves. – You always tell us, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the executive officials are highly trained on the street and in reality they are used to provide cleaning services. High house! We expect this federal government and, in particular, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, to be more dissociated from damaging statements of your party friends in the future that you are more open to the needs of the Austrian police, to reasonable working conditions, to more staff that is urgently needed for a modern equipment and for a fair life-time model that ladies and colleagues urgently need, and for the realization of the long promised – promised for years! – Executive Service Laws. – This defensive form of response to requests does little to help, and I think that is not the right way. I ask you to do that. You take the interests of colleagues seriously and that they will be protected by you in the future if your party friends insult them in a defamatory way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18428	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next item is Mr Dr Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18452	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Parnigoni, the Seibel-Brempfehrungen here celebrate happy originals – that's all you can say. The “Saliera” is back, we are happy, and we also thanked the executive for the excellent behavior. We, honourable Member Parnigoni, do not interfere in the election campaign of the executive who is elected in the next few weeks, and you will certainly not succeed in making the mood here! You have enough problems with the FSG trade unions, which now also need to read in the media, what happened to the BAWAG, what happened to the trade union contributions et cetera. The criminalization of Seibels, which has often been unsuccessfully tried in this House, has dissolved into air. The balance sheet of the Kunsthistorisches Museum can be seen: 1.5 million visitors, a secure basic financing, 39 percent of the costs are self-contained. The Museums Act 1998 has brought the museums independence and has proved themselves to be true! Many more than 200 special exhibitions speak a very, very clear language. The Art History Museum, Mr Parnigoni, is one of the five most important museums in the world. Take note of this! You can't construct scandals from the successful activity of Seiels, his employees! This construction has no prospect of success! If we talk about the true and real scandals in this Republic, we are talking about the BAWAG! If your business spokesman brings together today only the statement that at the end of the day Grasser is guilty and everyone else is not actually, if this is the logical consequence of this scandal, then that is a real scandal! [[Abg. Gradwell: Is the grass responsible for the “Saliera”?]] Why did Landeshauptmann representative Haider in Upper Austria not see that BAWAG buys shares in the Voest? - Had he been able to calm down! He has said that the Voest is sold to the Russians instead of engaging, as Upper Austrian banks have secured jobs in Upper Austria. This would have been the task of a BAWAG, but not the money – 1,4 billion €! – to fuck up! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Parnigoni, one more thing: You were in the Bureau of the ARBÖ until recently – is that true? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sure!]] You need to know a little bit, so I have five questions to you – please, write in! – because it is really important that this also comes into play here. You have left the sinking ship, from the ship that is in hiding, you have jumped off quickly. – Five questions: Is it true that the ARBÖ will be unable to pay from 2007 onwards? Is it true that there has been 18 percent salary increase per year for the Secretary-General? Is it true that there is an annual salary of well over €200 000? Is it true that travel vouchers have been booked for private use, for Turkey's travels of daughters and sons-in-law? Is it true that private use of action cars intended for the ARBÖ was perceived by family members of Hellar? “Your family should also enjoy the security and benefits of ARBÖ,” says the ARBÖ homepage. – That was obviously taken too seriously. Answer these questions! If these questions need to be answered with Yes, then this is a true scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The media have written: Suspicious of mistrust of club property – “NEWS”, 9. March; ARBÖ testers beat pleite alarm – "NEWS", 9. March; ARBÖ becomes a case for the prosecutor – "Standard", 9. ==References== These are the true scandals! Let's talk about it and clear it up! – The population has a right to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18527	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18548	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sonnberger, that next week you will probably decide to close the cultural report again in the Committee on Culture, proves to me that: Obviously, you don't really want to talk about culture and also about museum misters in a larger public, so here in plenary. But something can already be clearly read out, for example, from the chronology of the events surrounding the theft of the “Saliera”. There's a pattern here: Debts are always the others! It was by no means the director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum Seipel, but also not the Minister Gehrer. – As little as the government may be consistent, it cannot be removed from this line of reasoning, namely: We wash our hands in innocence, the evil ones are the others. After the invasion of the Kunsthistorisches Museum in May 2003, it was initially international gangs of perpetrators, then it was even the art mafia, which should be diverted from the criticism of the museum's safety equipment. Then it was the Burghauptmannschaft, which was responsible for the poor external security of the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Yes, and not to forget, it was also the serving guards who did not respond in time after hundreds of false alarms. But at least not to blame was Mrs Gehrer, not to blame was Director Seipel. Then the perpetrator was captured, and it turned out that he was an amateur, had no experience in performing burglaries, that he didn't belong to any perpetrator gangs, and that he didn't cooperate with the art mafia in Italy, where Mr. Seipel was on his own as a wanted-for-Sherlock Holmes. When Hofrat Ernst Geiger, the head of the “Saliera” investigations, said that the guard’s reaction could not have prevented theft, a new debtor was needed. Then who was to blame? – It offers itself directly: the police! In interviews, museum director Seipel has fabricated, he has given quite incredible things to himself. He said there had been deals between the perpetrator and the executive, and he gave the impression that the special command Wega would be a foot-marode force that would not handle a structure in an hour and a half. Again the same pattern, you recognize it: It's always the fault of the others! The facts are others: The “Saliera” theft was only possible because the safety measures in the KHM were proven to be bad. You know, there was the unguarded structure, the windows were not alarmproof, the video system was shut down because it was dark and night anyway, there were numerous false alarms, the “Saliera” display was made of window glass, and the space was not intended for sculptures at all. – All of this was in the responsibility of Director Seiel. So, as mentioned earlier, all the others were not guilty. Throughout the Causa, Elisabeth Gehreral's competent minister and director Seipel have not only tried to push away her responsibility, but they have also tried to harm other people and other institutions. And there, Mrs. Inner Minister, I would have expected you to stand behind your employees, and you did not. It was then interesting to reply to Mr Parnigoni's question, in which you clearly say that the situation is different, but you have not really put yourself publicly behind your officials. The executive officers were almost subjected to abuse of office, and I am very surprised that you did not make a cry, protest and protect your officials. But obviously this is not really your concern, because you have shown it in an answer to a request from me. You let me know that you have no opinion on the increased safety risk for executive officers at Tempo 160 on the motorway. I conclude from it, it's interested You're not what happens to the executives. I find that very unfortunate, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18615	Mrs Prokop, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18636	High house! Let me briefly explain the answer to the question. There was no reconstruction of the break-in even in the sense of climbing the scaffolding, but there was a expertise and a review by experts of WEGA. It was possible to find out how the perpetrators got in and how they could get in the fastest. According to experts of WEGA, climbing the scaffolding and intrusion would have been possible within a few minutes. I have also expressed this in the answer to the question. As mentioned above, it should be assumed that the one and a half hours were related to the Tate reconstruction. That's what was said in a television interview. However, I would also like to make one point because it has been noted in this debate that Austria has had a very poor safety status. The fact is that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world in all statistics, and I believe that we can all be proud of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, if the statistics are tailored: These statistics in this form have only been available since 2000. There are no comparisons with other statistics that have been manually conducted and have not been conducted on computer. And since then there have also been new, broad forms of crime that have not previously been published in statistics. There was also a much higher number of cases, but you can also see in the latest statistics that the rate of education is rising significantly upward, and that is thanks to the work of our executives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the technical equipment that is so poorly presented here, I would just like to say one thing: We are finished with Packs 4, with the equipment; Packs 4 is complete. 15 000 devices have been purchased over the last few years, a huge number. We will equip all services with broadband communications connections this year. There's hardly any administration that has it. I think that's a model. I just want to call the uniforms, the motor vehicles, the real estate offensive. It is particularly important to put in place major measures in the old Federal Police Directorates and Inspections in the cities. There is a great need for recovery here historically. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen and High House! Of course, I take our employees in every form against all unjustified attacks. This has happened in this case, we have made it clear. But I also do so in other areas, for example, when they are accused of forgery of statistics. All of this is incorrect to our great officials. Especially in recent times, much has happened to improve our employees. We have more on the street since 2000 than 1,000 employees. We managed to get the executive into the heavy-worker pension scheme. We have created a new supplement in the field of night service allowance and weekend allowance. We realized the E 2b supplement. So I think it didn't happen a little bit. And that's exactly what our executive officers deserve, and I'm glad we have such a good executive and police in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18688	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Also for you 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18709	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, I am not quite clear about your question. What do you want? Is that what you're doing? Do you want to distract you from the BAWAG Debakel we've been talking about all afternoon? Or is it the personnel representation elections that are in place in the next few weeks? I don't think of anything else. They make themselves there, they begin to ask for Seizel's discharges, then tell us about cleaning the wakerooms, about the heavy-worker's arrangement and different things, but without having a real substrate. – Or want to Do you create a cultural debate with your request? It may be the personnel representation or the BAWAG. [[Abg. Bad luck!]] Bad done, yeah! Just as clear as the discussion was within the framework of the BAWAG urgents, this question is also what you are asking for. I would like to say to you, Mr Parnigoni: I do not defend the Director-General of the Art History Museum, nor do I defend the Minister of Education Gehrer, nor do I defend the Minister of the Interior who has really answered your request perfectly and correctly, but I will answer you here as I see it. For example, I have nowhere to find these incredible shakes you are talking about in your request. In addition, I selected the entire broadcasts and press releases of the time when the “Saliera” was found: I didn't find the shakes. The only thing I have heard now in the context of the discussion was that of Mrs Muttonen, who accused the Minister of Foreign Affairs, her executive officials did not lie at her heart, she did not care about how they were doing and how they were equipped. I really haven't heard such a perverse, absurd shake for a long time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So, as I said, the water you're making for your inquiry is completely unclear to me. Mr Hofrat Geiger said in a press release that he did not feel attacked by Mr Seipel's speech. And by the way: Mr Seipel is not under the duty of truth. He can express his opinion on the executive as well as any other person, just as any traffic participant who feels unfairly treated by a criminal mandate or whatever. What bothered me about the whole discussion in connection with the discovery of the “Saliera”, these were the media, but we have no power over the media. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because of these, the suspect is highly stylized to the hero. If it goes after them, this whole coup will even be filmed. The whole action has been depicted as the husary ride of a person who is always on it, a woman's lover and what the devil knows is all. Only because he does not correspond to the cliché of a criminal has he been so highly stylized. That was something I felt really unpleasant for myself, because I think this man really proved a high criminal energy by first of all practicing this intrusion by hiding the “Saliera” for years, even though he knew, at least later on, that this is a very high-quality work of art that is being sought. But one thing I want to say: The courts and the prosecutors will now determine, and I trust them and they have my confidence that without any sentimentality they will see the person of the perpetrator and judge the act correctly.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18758	Mr Zinggl spoke next. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18779	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, the director of the Art History Museum wants to bring in all possible people and in recent months he has been running amok because he may be aware of his lack of economic efficiency, sparingness, prudence and also of the circumstances as regards the museum's security need, which is perfectly clear to us. He is supported, covered and supported by the Minister of Culture Gehrer, as we know – and also quite clearly – no matter what he does. Even if the police didn't fail, we're completely clear. She has explained that as well as it has gone, and she has also shown that within minutes each of us could have gone more or less over this structure to steal the “Saliera”. That's all very clear. However, I am not aware of what Minister Prokop now has to do with it directly. She has answered the question properly and now repeats it again: The police have done all of this. So there are no allegations, as always, that would have to be rejected, except those of Director Seiel, who has not yet apologised for them. – Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! That was in the “time in picture 2” where Director Seipel made these accusations; You know that, too. What I can't understand at all is the fact that this museum director, who has constantly made problems and continues to do things that have also set illegal activities – and I am convinced that this is going on – is still in office. I can't possibly understand this: that this director buys six Egyptian tombs and lets two of them, so to speak, be transferred to private property as commissions – that's not addressed to this day! – that he sells his own car to the museum and then continues to drive with it himself, that he sells the Sphinx... [[Abg. Gahr: This has often been discussed!]] Yes, this has often been discussed, but without consequences! I'm also saving you that I'm going to list all of this now. We're coming back with it anyway, the story isn't finished yet. So I'll save you that anyway. But in the ÖVP – and I would like to say that – there is obviously no such culture of withdrawal in the event of responsibility. And I have to say – and this is what honourable Member Peter Pilz said half an hour ago: After all, the union president has resigned, he has become aware of his responsibility at the end of the day. [[Call at the ÖVP: Receipt! – Ten years...!]] - Yes, you say he's resigned. It may be that the friends from his party recommended that he withdraw, and he did the last thing. But I would expect that from the friends of the director Seipel in the ÖVP, but nothing happens at all. On the contrary, it is covered: What he does is all great. – I think there is a lack of the culture of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18826	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[18:23:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18847	I take the negotiations on the 8th. Agenda item again. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Worm. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18872	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So that we can get back to the subject – the debate on the ratification of the Prüm Treaty was interrupted at 3 p.m. – I say again briefly what it is about in the Prüm Treaty. The Prümer contract regulates the exchange of DNA data, roof tyloscopic data, for example fingerprints, and data from the vehicle register. The purpose of this Treaty is to be concluded, if it is finally ratified, between seven EU Member States. With the Prümer contract, it will now be possible to balance open DNA traces. According to expectations – the Minister expects this – in the future, after ratification of the Treaty, about 2,000 crimes are to be more resolved. - We'll see. I would like to say to Mr Pilz's allegations, which were raised in the afternoon against all those who support this Treaty or vote in the vote with Yes: The Prümer Treaty is the first police cooperation agreement in Europe, which provides for concrete data protection provisions associated with appropriate controls. This is good, and this is exemplary in terms of data protection and fundamental rights. The SPÖ will therefore agree to the Treaty in its final version, because the data protection concerns could be resolved and because there is no general access to Austrian data stocks. Data surveys are anonymized and refer to the individual case. In addition, each data query is logged so that the Data Protection Commission can verify the use and transmission of data in each individual case. The opinion of the Data Protection Council was therefore received. The Treaty is therefore without prejudice to data protection law, and it can be agreed in this form. What is a problem, however, and I would like to point out this again – I would also point out this in every discussion we have discussed about police cooperation: Mrs Minister, we are now the leader of the EU Presidency, and I would like to point out that we really are also in the other cooperation areas. In the European Parliament or where it is most useful, agreements between the police should be established. I think that's what I'm going to do. - That's one. Another lack which I would like to highlight is – and this has already been called for several times in the debate today – that, in addition to the seven states that are now trying to ratify, the other remaining states should still ratify this Treaty – not only in order to decide on this legal work, but also in order to avoid different legal situations in Europe, in the EU, that there are different areas of the subject, where a different core European structure is formed. I do not think that is good, we should try to avoid this, because it is important that the EU's fragile political framework exists in a uniform law and that there are equal legal situations, otherwise we are even more endangering the Europe project. At the end of the day, Mrs. Minister, the following: If, with this Treaty, we have created the control bodies – which is good and to be supported – through the Data Protection Commission, it will nevertheless be necessary to provide for the appropriate human resources, because without the appropriate human resources, everything will be useless. In this sense, I hope that you will act on the Federal Chancellor so that compliance with what is law can also be controlled here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18923	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18944	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Wurm has brought the debate back to the subject. The Prümer Treaty here today is about us starting a project in Europe to achieve greater security and sustainability in the fight against crime. In a Europe where borders are being reduced and a common Europe is to be formed, it should be of course that we are cooperating more closely and cooperating more closely in security. So it is our political commitment and our mission that we fight cross-border crime in a sustainable way, that we fight terrorism, and I believe that we also need to fight against illegal migration in a sustainable way. It is also about the fact that we do not question data protection. The chief data protection officer in Parliament, Mr Maier, has expressed in the Committee a compliment that data protection requirements are fulfilled, that there are no black lists, as Mr Pilz claims, and that fundamental rights are not violated in any way. The balance of data is the chance that we in Europe will be able to fight cross-border crime in a sustainable way. I am grateful that Austria and, above all, Mrs Prokop are playing a pioneering role here and that it is not the case, as Mr Pilz claims, that the G8 summit promoted data abuse in 2001. The Greens as the European Party should actually be in favour of this Prümer Treaty. Thank you to Mrs Prokop, the Federal Minister, for this project will strengthen police cooperation and increase security in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e18990	The next item is Mrs Pfeiffer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19011	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned several times today, this government proposal on the Prüm Treaty will be decided by a majority. It's been said a lot. I would like to mention that the experience has also shown that it is worth joining this contract. We have been able to make some changes from the SPÖ, and we will, of course, agree to this government proposal. A SPÖ delegation of the Committee on the Interior was able to take place on 22 July. On-site, on March 2006, the work of officials in the BKA's Department of Recognition. It was very impressive for all of us what is being done in the service of security there. In one example, we were shown what happens when a deed false, in this case a passerby, is taken. In addition, he came across the border via Nickelsdorf, my home district. Speaking of Nickelsdorf, ladies and gentlemen: Do you know what is done at this border crossing? In order to illustrate a few things to you, I would like to mention here a short list of statistics: In the years 2003 to 2005 15 937 452 people arrived in Austria and 14 238 605 people traveled from Austria during the same period. At the same time, 3 542 761 cars arrived and 3 232 766 passenger cars returned; 503 000 trucks arrived, 570 000 arrived; 89 442 buses arrived and 66 290 arrived. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there is nothing to add to these figures except my thanks to all the officials who work for the benefit of security in our society. But I have to draw your attention to a few things, Mrs Federal Minister: The officials were once able to spend the night in the house where the insulating station for animals is also set up during their service. There, more than 170 animals – in the case of cats – were accommodated from circumstances that are known. For health reasons, this is necessary, and that is all right. But now these officials are spending their time sleeping between the lockers where they have to put up their folding beds and there is little room. There, remedial action should be taken. Mrs Bundesminister, please look at this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19054	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19076	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has already made significant advances in terms of Europe-wide police cooperation on the defence of terrorism. In May 2005, Germany, the Benelux States, agreed France, Spain and Austria on the so-called Prümer contract – named after the Eifel city in which the contract was signed. On the basis of this contract, the Contracting Parties undertake to exchange information and thus to significantly improve the exchange of information for the purpose of preventing and persecuting crimes between Signatory States. The Treaty provides that the States concerned shall grant each other certain access rights to DNA and fingerprint files as well as to vehicle registers, with particular reference to the fact that the older DNA data that have been processed so far can also be networked internationally. There are 12 000 open traces in Austria, whose clarification is still outstanding. The data balance is now expected to allow hundreds of cases to be re-rolled. Many of these unexplained cases of the past are now faced with the great opportunity to be finally completed, and there is the opportunity to give the victims justice and certainty. Ladies and gentlemen! This Prümer contract is a mosaic in the overall system to increase security in one of the safest countries in Europe. A good law! I'm asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19118	Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19139	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying the following: I believe that social democrats are always on good results in important laws in the field of internal security. I can only recall - I also expressed this in committee - that a delay or interruption is not always bad, because I think, Mrs Minister, there was a really proper and good discussion not only in the committee, but we had the time to work it out accordingly in the Data Protection Council. And so today, in the light of a good outcome for our colleagues who do excellent work in the field of executives – and I wish that this law is an important contribution to the future in the interests of the security of all Austrians – we can really agree with good conscience. I therefore believe that you should not always hold the discussion: Aha, they don't want it again, or: They are moving in one direction!, but I believe that it is also necessary to take the time, especially in the parliamentary work, to deal with these important and also delicate questions accordingly and to discuss them. Mrs Bundesminister, you yourself said it: We are the first to ratify this treaty. I'll invite you to: Give a little – if I can express it salopp – gas! Invite your colleagues, so that we are not the only ones of the seven nations, but that, after us, the others quickly ratify this state agreement. I would like to conclude with everyone for the interesting discussion and, above all, with the colleagues of the Data Protection Council and with all the officials who provide us with information in this context. Thank you very much. We can give our consent to this state agreement with good conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19182	Mr Lopatka has now come to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19203	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that there is such a large majority on this item on the agenda today. This is another important step that we are taking together for greater security. Of course, one can regret that only seven countries are now in the process, but waiting for all the remaining 24 EU countries to be so far would, in my opinion, be the wrong way. Better than that, we're going ahead of this. Especially with regard to the upcoming European Football Championship and other events, it is important to put in place the right measures here in good time. It is incomprehensible to me that the SPÖ is involved in this issue, but in many other points, which have also made a clear contribution to greater security, it has been denied approval here, whether this was the last vote on the citizenship law or the Foreign Police Act, the Security Police Act or the asylum novels in 2003. It is unfortunate that there is no clear line here at SPÖ. But after all, You are present at this decision-making process today. We are confident that further decisions for greater security in Austria will be taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19233	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with statements by the Republic of Austria and the approval of the Joint Declaration in 1155 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. This request was adopted by a majority. [[18:40:31]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on motion 798/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Mag. Dr. Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on a Federal Law on the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria (1358 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the Government template (1344, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the establishment and operation of the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria and its annex (1359 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19298	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen, was the first to speak. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19328	Madam President. Klubobmann Scheibner said again today: Elite University in Gugging. Mr Scheibner, it is not an elite university because it is not a university. We do not know what is being taught and researched there until today. It's fixed, it won't be comprehensive. That's why it can't be an elite university. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't be so strict with me!]] Secondly, We see no reason today to give ourselves, so to speak, the responsibility for this new institution. The Institute of Science and Technology is beautiful and good, there is a small scientific penthouse on it somewhere. The question is: what? – I have nothing against a penthouse, I would also like to research and work there. But it only has a sense when the foundation exists, and the foundation is still the existing universities in that country. I fully agree with Hannes Androsch. What did he say so well? – The financial situation of the universities is a partly autonomous management of scandalous defects. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's all wrong!]] There's nothing to add to that. Talk to the people at the university, go to lectures, see how it looks and how it smells there! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I do!]] Then you will notice that all this is different from luxurious institutions. An example of what we have already brought before, but it may be useful in the long run: The technical universities in Switzerland, Mrs. Brinek – you don't have to go to the US – have four to five times as much normal budget per head of the students as TU Vienna or similar institutions. One can build on such a foundation, and that must be done first. Furthermore, the Research Fund for Scientific Research, FWF. Mr Broukal is satisfied with the fact that 30 million € – hopefully not in the law – are now being extradited in advance of the 2007 budget. That's all right. But how long do we have to let the government parties offer this flicking machine? Mr Broukal, what the FWF needs, not only since yesterday, but for years, is a long-term commitment so that they can plan wisely. They need a higher base budget and secure growth rates in the current budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm not satisfied that something is now being promised. Next year we have the same theatre again, I guarantee you that unless the government changes. [[Abg. Broukal: That would have been my perspective, Professor!]] – But with this government we would have the same thing again. I wish the Institute of Science and Technology good luck. One day we may even know what's being researched there. The law says basic research. For this I am very much, the question is only: which one. We don't know anything about it yet. There is no doubt that one day we will find out. What has now been changed, Mr Broukal, is the minimum. It was clear from the beginning that the board of trustees did not hold in the form: four people from the Federal Government, three from the state of Lower Austria. That was a grotesque for power. Perhaps it was planned to give the government parties a real confidence that they would first stage a Grotesque to make the minimum, and the SPÖ says bravo to that. This is too little for me and the Greens, Mr Broukal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19411	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Brinek. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19432	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Estimated Mr Klubobmann, one can disagree with the foundations for the new Institute of Science and Technology, namely one can evaluate the policy actually pursued. The increase of the FWF to a total of about €150 million now is almost a doubling compared to the stand in 1999. The universities are established with the University Law 2002 as best possible. The universities – you know many of them, I also know some – are more satisfied and have managed well with the scope given to them by university autonomy and continue to operate well. With the commitment of the Federal Government to equip universities with a total budget of €1.1 billion by 2009, another foundation stone has been laid on which to build well. And if today, as a conclusion of a new module of the university and research landscape, we adopt a further €455 million for the next few years for top performance in the field of basic research, I am very happy and confident and I believe that this is a very nice balance sheet of this federal government and the Federal Minister Gehrer. With the adoption of this law, we are setting a good conclusion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The idea is not so new. It was – I can remember – the German Chancellor, who for the first time spoke of a necessary elite union, but who meant this rather than a rhetorical concept and not in the sense of a new full-university. The idea of top-level research in Austria goes back to Anton Zeilinger. And we also followed him when Mr Bleckmann and I presented the first proposal for an initiative. We have thought of the model of MIT, that is, there is a strong president there, the financiers sitting in the board of trustees, and besides that we have the scientists in the scientific council. It was our openness – thank you, Mr Bleckmann, that she has chosen this path with me from the beginning – to say, now we are putting this draft, this request for discussion. And we would have liked to have a serious discussion, for example, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The discussion also meant that the international researchers, at the head of Professor Harari, said that we actually had more experience in basic research with the Weitzmann Institute. The aim was not to strengthen the President to the extent planned, but to have at least half of the scientists in the board of trustees. We were happy to follow this proposal, but that was not the plan from the beginning. The first proposals are based on Seilinger's idea, which, as has already been said, is similar to the MIT model. I wonder about so many assessments, which then looked different a few days later. That is to say, there are very serious proposals from various parties, at which SPÖ I have essentially established a zigzag course. First, the SPÖ Vienna has been involved, involved, and found the idea of the top research institute well. When it came different, that is, when the experts recommended the location of Niederösterreich, it was no longer exciting at once, and representatives of SPÖ such as Gusenbauer, Broukal and so on have actually tried to damage the site of Gugging or Klosterneuburg. That wasn't a solid attitude. ==References====External links== It is not the case that we are not going to have to put forward a motion for a resolution, but that is why we are not going to vote against the IST-A, and we have said that if the FWF is not increased by law, we do not need to try to put forward a motion for a resolution. I also wondered that he wasn't even on the 21st. In March, the Committee decided to continue its discussions. He left the committee and said he wanted to talk about 41 points, and actually he didn't want to wait impatiently until the other participants of the committee arrived. ==References== In March, he also had to express his views on the former Finance Minister Androsch and claim false things on all points in order to confirm the SPÖ's negative course. I am glad that the SPÖ today agrees and that we can jointly adopt a good and sound law. [[Abg. Broukal: Actually, you have to force us very much if I listen to you like this!]] – You seem to have to force yourself, it is your motivation, you can also leave it as a democratic and free MP. I have the impression, however, that Mr Bauer from Lower Austria is very much concerned, and if he had gone after him, he would have made a different contribution from the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide to build a building block in the large building of science and research in Austria. It is a research institute sui generis, which, as a new foundation, should have the opportunity to take new paths without burden from structural and mental traditions – in the context of relevant drafts and relevant concepts in Europe; we should not forget that either. One aspect of the seriousness with which the government has pursued the objective was to cooperate in the European context. Finally, with today's adoption – together with an increased FWF, a newly organized FFG, new and well-equipped universities – we can take new steps with this Institute of Science and Technology, and this will allow both scientists, researchers and the existing institutions themselves and those in Klosterneuburg Tätigen to to achieve a joint success for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19475	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19496	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I believe; everyone agrees that Austria needs excellent universities, excellent institutes, optimally trained students and outstanding researchers. The question is: How do you achieve that? – If you look around in the science scene, you have to say: There is actually a broad consensus among all experts, which says that the opportunity for elites and excellence increases in proportion with an optimal variety and width of training of as many students as possible and, secondly, with an optimal equipment, infrastructure of universities. Now we can ask ourselves: Where are the priorities? – Should one artificially divert from existing problems in the university sector and order from above dictated science on the green meadow and then believe it falls in a few months or years Nobel prizes such as manna from heaven, or make universities also fiscally competitive, does not students on the grounds of access restrictions stop studying, but offers them optimal support qualities, optimal laboratory sites, optimal libraries, computer accesses us so further and so on and thus achieves that this width will become a certain percentage of peak that can then be further promoted? That would have been our priority, the government sets completely different priorities, and that is already somehow the faith in everything feasible. The government knows where the rabbit is going. I'll say in the pepper. Where's the dog buried? – I have told you where he will be buried – in universities that may not be able to keep up. No matter what you tell us here, I repeat and quote the federal budget estimates, and I quote the APA reports from the science and financial sector: In terms of GDP, the university budget has fallen. Austria and France are the only OECD countries with fewer students in 2005 than in 1999. These are facts, that has nothing to do with Elite and nothing to do with it, although we all want to go there – I think we agree in that. Now I'm wondering, What incentives do you offer young researchers to participate in the risk of science? Instead, the plan is realized, legionaries of science are bought internationally and are put to them buildings with the remark: Do it once! The research fund is so concentrated that in the weakest times, only just over 20 percent of all research funding applications could be approved. It's gotten better now, now you're 30 percent. Is this an incentive for young scientists to engage in adventure research? Mrs Brinek, I think I understand at least as much as you do. I know colleagues who have been active in science for seven years, who have never had a definitely clear fixed position, have never had prospects and have been hunted from one position to the next. This is not an incentive for young people to take part in this adventure, as I said. That's not right either, and you can't give me any examples. I have to say: They also bother me – now I mean you, Mrs. Federal Minister, but people here in plenary – with MIT. Know that at MIT, Harvard and Stanford more than 300 courses are offered, up to theatre science. Do you think Gugging will teach theatre science? – There three subjects are taught. MIT has over 3,000 professors, more than 10,000 students and a budget as high as the entire budget of the highly revered Federal Minister for All 21 universities of Austria. Why don't we just stop talking such a nonsense? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You won't be able to call me any institution in the world where top down scientific excellence, so to speak, is like a miracle from the ground. Harvard, Stanford has a story, Mrs. Brinek, you may know. These universities are several hundred years old, which one was founded around 1700 and the second 1810 or 1820. It can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They also had a first day!]] Let's go back: The first draft – as everyone will agree with me – was a pity not only by the press, by the scientific journalists and by the opposition, but also by the scientific scene of Austria and by foreign Austrians working in science. What happened then? – The industrial association is – I say this value-free – praiseworthyly jumped in and has financed or moved three really recognized people, so to speak, and so to speak, to tear the tax around. These have then tried to make proposals. And I don't like to say, Something has improved in this proposal on IST-A, namely that there are now 14 instead of seven board members. But the wording is unclear: They must operate in internationally recognised scientific institutions. – You will admit that Austrian universities are also scientifically or internationally recognized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Nothing stands in the way of the fact that the board of trustees – theoretically I say now – will only be appointed domestics who, in competition with the scientists working there, will be very jealous about who does what and who gets what. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] But the motto is, there the best are paid and can do and leave what they want, which is also good in the sense of freedom of research. What do universities think when they look at that? – Don’t think you should invest better there – you have had time to talk – where top institutes already exist in Austria, where top working groups and teams work whose achievements are known. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] They could truly be an international evaluation! The Research Fund has 16 special research areas in Austria, which have been assessed exclusively internationally. START and Wittgenstein prize winners have been nominated exclusively by foreign scientists and have eventually become prize winners. Why not take them as a point of crystallization, as people and institutions who can apply for these means that are not too small – they are 520 or 530 million euros. There is a model – I am proud and proud of myself and I am glad that the Science Fund has published it – which would correspond to ours. They want to initiate something on existing facilities without delay, by being able to further appoint foreign scientists as an enrichment, to establish additional institutes to reach this threshold so that they are absolutely compatible internationally and can compete with the best of the world. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We know all that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We know the concept!]] It's not going to be done. This costs €9.3 million per cluster, according to FWF; six clusters would carry this sum for the Excellence Institute Gugging loose. I now come to the last point, namely Article 15a. These have been signed, hunted or worn by the Council of Ministers – probably worn rather than hunted – and we should now negotiate them too! That's already gone over the stage. Is that going to correct anyone else? What's in there? [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] It states that the State of Lower Austria and the Republic of Austria can discharge and transfer to third parties all obligations entered into in this Treaty. What does that mean? Does that perhaps mean that Raika Advocate General Konrad is elected the next president of this Elite Institute and then does something completely different, not basic research, but anything that interests him? Probably not red game hunting or something similar, it will be something reasonable. But that's to be questioned! I haven't got a reply yet. It also says that, after 25 years, the land of the country of Austria will become the property of this institute. All the experts say – and the universities would have wanted it – that it would have to stand inside: in the property. Here the covenant was overturned. Do you know that Lower Austria pays a third of the sum, the Federation two thirds, but almost parity is represented in the board of trustees? It's all strange and not clean. If Pröll is responsible for motivating him to become the center of innovation in Lower Austria, I have to say: I think this is an Austrian problem, a problem of all 21 Austrian universities. – Read the other in today’s “standard” comment! You can't argue like Pröll and say: Because we made a bioethanol plant because we brought the MedAustron to Lower Austria! – This is not against Lower Austria, but to the glory and monument of a country captain I cannot create an elite institute! [[Abg. May. Controller: A committed country captain!]] Finally, I must say: It has gotten a lot better in this bill, but – and then I really close my remarks – you have also overturned the SPÖ. The Science Fund was with me. He told me, with the 30 million, it looks like this: Gorbach couldn't give her, Grasser let himself be persuaded in a short time! But it stands clearly inside: a unique foregleam to the year 2007. – If you make an advance of €30 million each year, the FWF has nothing left in ten years. And that, I think, is not an incentive to agree to this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19623	The next item is the speech by Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19644	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Brinek, I think it's as pessimistic as the Kurt Grünewald sees it, you don't have to see it; I agree with you. One should always suspect the worst in principle, but it does not always have to occur either. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not my attitude!]] That's right, it doesn't always have to happen either. And then there is a critical public that falls into your arms, if one wants to not only plan the bad, but also to carry it out. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Or in the back!]] I think Kurt says you're going to make a mistake. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald]] In the Council of Ministers' presentation – as far as I can access it – it is said that these €30 million will come more in the coming years. Please, perhaps the Federal Minister will be able to do this more precisely. I'm just going to hear about it, 'cause it's not public documents. It was important to me to ensure that these 30 million are not unique, but lasting, and that seems, I say, successful – to the best of my knowledge, otherwise I would not have agreed. For 30 million once, just to give a peace, I wouldn't have done it. I think that when we discussed this last time, I said yes, we had been going to the agenda for a long time, it would not have been the initiators of the project, the professors – you know: Seilinger, Schuster, Schmidt, the Wittgenstein Prizewinners, the Austrians from abroad among the scientists – who said: That's not how it's done! And I think that we have made two demands that are reasonable, and I also very much thank you for the fact that there has been this objection here. State Secretary Mainoni always says it wasn't the broukal. For you I have a double line from a famous couple of Tom Teachers from the 1960s, where it is about one scientist writing off from the other, and the one who is writing down is then the first one in the market and unjustly home to fame. And then he closes this beautiful line: “And then my name in Minsk is cursed. When he finds out, I published first.’ If you had just said three weeks ago that you wanted to give the FWF 30 million, we would have believed it was your fault. Bruno Kreisky once said in a similar situation: You can believe it, but you don't have to believe it! – In any case, the public has passed its judgment on this matter. The media recognize that you have moved, but they also acknowledge that SPÖ demands have been realized. So we're both happy together and now we're thinking about the other universities again. Its situation has improved somewhat by increasing the FWF, but it is far from as satisfactory as is always being done. There are still scarcityes, we still have students who have been expelled from the studies in close-up tests because the universities did not have the money. – You will learn more about this today. I think our concern is now, after this thing is over the ramp, again to the other universities. Let us see that we also put them in a state that they no longer need to look jealously at Maria Gugging, but that everyone, wherever they work in the tertiary education sector, can say: Yes, this Austria is a good location for science and research! The way there is still far, a beginning is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19710	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19731	Mr President. High house! The question was asked by Mr Grünewald: Where does the Austrian Federal Government set priorities? – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point this out. Our priorities are the whole field of education. We take a broad education course: from kindergarten to adult education, from compulsory school, from folk school to excellence promotion. We invest in all areas. We help that in kindergartens the children, who cannot yet learn German, learn better German. For this purpose, we have created a new opportunity, with € 640 000, the kindergartens will be supported in their efforts. We invest in elementary schools, in secondary schools. In the last ten years, we have opened two new school buildings each month in the Federal School: Constructions, renovations, expansions. We have invested heavily in universities, in new buildings. We have secured the budget for the universities for the next few years, with an increase of 11 percent, with €500 million for a general renovation. We have doubled the budget of the technical universities, the number of students has doubled. Mr Grünewald, I know you as a fair person. Because you always claim that the number of students has fallen since 1999: You know that there have been a lot of people who have not studied, that we have had realistic figures since 2000 and that these figures are constantly rising, that we are already with over 220 000 students, and that in particular the number of first-level recipients is increasing to a special extent, but that the number of graduates is also increasing to a particular extent. So something has happened, it has developed a little further at our universities. Because you're still asking: Where do we set priorities?, I tell you very clearly: in the field of research. If you look at it, then you will be able to find out: Ten new institutes of the Academy of Sciences were established. The budget of the Academy of Sciences was increased by 80 percent. I emphasize: 80 percent since 1999! That can be seen. The scientific research fund's budget has been increased from €80 million to €150 million this year. And if you know internationally, you know that such science funds support about 33 percent of the projects you are applying for, in order to promote the excellence projects. We have had 31 or 32 percent so far, and through the increase, the promotion will surely be 38 percent. This is a very good support approach. Because you are trying to get the Wittgenstein Prizewinners and also the foreign researchers who have supposedly spoken against the new Excellence Institute in Klosterneuburg, I can tell you: You can also read very carefully otherwise! – You too, Mr Broukal, will otherwise read very carefully. The text of this letter was signed by the speaker, Dr. Schachermayer. And below it is said: Other Wittgenstein prize winners are... And then we called some and found out that they didn't sign. And that is why Wittgenstein Prizewinner Professor Gornik is now also present at the National Committee. He said: I am not against this Excellence Institute at all, I am pleased when this Excellence Institute comes in addition! They also know quite well that we have about 800 young researchers in the United States who work there and work there at universities. A little over 30 have signed a general letter. They were asked to sign this letter and, of course, to make it public. It's always public writing. But I would just like to say to this Excellence Institute: We have had a very fruitful discussion, and that has been my concern from the very beginning. The discussion was started by Professor Zeilinger, who from the beginning spoke of an elite university. A group of researchers, the so-called core team, then developed these thoughts further, and there have been very many discussions. The task of this core team was to present us with an objective assessment of the sites. We have committed international institutes to this, and I have followed this outcome. The task of the core team was to present us with a draft law. You then complained that we did not give this law a long review. But we have de facto had a public discussion, we have de facto had a review – and we have made it better together. I would like to thank all those who have put forward ideas and proposals. It was the idea of the core team to say: We want to have the representatives of the donors and the scientists in different bodies! And it was then the idea to say: It is better as it is at the Weizmann Institute that scientists and the representatives of the lenders are in a curatorium! We have then changed this in this direction, we have introduced additional rules that the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, until the First President is appointed, manages the business; that the President proposes to the Scientific Council that the Board appoints the Scientific Council; and that after the first appointment of the scientists, the scientists be appointed from the board of trustees. That is, politics, the government no longer has any influence. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, we're taking a very important step with this Institute of Science and Technology. We take an important step towards further positioning ourselves in the field of excellence. We have areas of excellence, we build areas of excellence. When we think of MedAustron, which is realized in Wiener Neustadt: an area of excellence in the field of medical care, in the field of treatment, in the field of material research, in the field of spallation. We have the Excellence Institutes of the Academy of Sciences, we have Excellence Institutes at our good universities, and we have balancedly made sure that universities get more money, the Science Fund gets more money, and that money is there for this Excellence Institute we want to build. If you look closely at it: The Weizmann Institute has also started small. And if you don't start, then finally no excellence institute can be created in this way. In any case, I would like to thank all those who are now supporting us in the establishment of this Excellence Institute.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19797	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19819	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr Broukal, I admire your optimism. If you say so loosely: Now we decide the International Research Institute, and then we look back at the universities what we do there!, then I'm excited what you'll see when you look there. What I can see is that in international comparison we really do not spend very much on universities: 0.8% of GDP! In international comparison, it is about 1.8 percent. So there's a lot missing that we're going there. If we were to take a base of 700 million for infrastructure and additional 200 million for the next few years, we would go to universities to an international standard. I only look at you, Mr Broukal, because you are so absolutely optimistic. I expect nothing else from the ÖVP but that it defends what led it in the way. I just thought SPÖ was thinking a little more. [[Abg. Broukal: I expect it to be meat in six months, what the ÖVP means!]] From our point of view – and Mr Grünewald has already said it – there is simply a lot of basis in the field of universities where excellence would be set up. And as long as that's not there... – No, that's not going to be done. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's done!]] You're doing it like the 30 million now from the FWF. That's what I'm looking at! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is almost unpleasant with the 30 million!]] No, no! They say that this is a prelude to the 2007 budget. That's what you always do: They're pushing any budget items through the area. Finally, you say you have more money somewhere; and in reality, you just took it away somewhere else. That would mean that you would need 60 million more for the FWF 2006/2007 – do we agree? – because 30 million are taking you as an advance on 2006, then the 30 million are gone. That means if you want to secure the 30 million again what you claim now, you need 60 million additional for the 2007 budget. Well, that's what I'm looking at, where it'll appear with you. This will not appear anywhere because your promises are simply very rarely made true. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have a little example of what you could do: They could be based on current research initiatives. In this context, I would like to tell you something new: In Gänserndorf there is a project with the former animal experiment monkeys of Baxter. I don't know if you know that. Sit there 44... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] - Wait a bit! It has something to do with excellence. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But not with the contract of the Zeilinger!]] - No, not with the Zeilinger. But it has something to do with a woman – maybe you're not interested in it. In the current project, only men are in play so far, regardless of which country they come from. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So let's go to Gänserndorf for a second. – It is about caring for 44 chimpanzees who had Baxter as an animal trial monkey. This project is an internationally respected, internationally exemplary project in behavioral research. However, the project only has money for two years, then it is practically “hin”. It sends, not to say: shipped. The University of Vienna would have a great interest in making an excellence centre there, an excellent research project for behavioral research, but unfortunately 20 million are missing – running 20 million for an international model project! This is just a small example of what there is and what there is no money for, just so that in Gugging – we still don't know what – can happen. And I say this again with the women, because I don't just want to say it by the way. In Gugging, at this project, ten men are in the board of trustees, we have three international researchers. There has never been any researcher throughout the project. And if you look at Austria's continuing to be the most recent in the OECD field as far as the researchers are concerned, maybe this could at least give us some thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19918	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e19940	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to deal with the SPÖ a little bit, even if it is very commendable that you have decided to agree here today and in recent days. [[Abg. Broukal: That must be! I would have missed that!]] We are pleased that the international arguments have apparently been striking enough for you. I simply find it extremely interesting – and this should also be kept in a protocol – as you have behaved on this issue. Mr Niederweiser said last time that he now knows who is to blame for it, namely the opposition, if the whole project is not going to be. At the time, during the last discussion, I have already accused you of being able to contribute to a failure of the same and to the deterioration of the reputation of our Excellence Institute. So I'm glad you've been taught a better one here now. However, I am still going to list your press releases on this subject from February 2006 alone. 2. February 2006: ‘Broukal: SPÖ versus Elite-Uni in Gugging.” 6. February 2006: ‘Elite Union: SP wants new location in election victory.” Now I have to quote a little more: “The SPÖ wants to look for... the National Council election... a new location for the elite union.” For him, Broukal, “is the site Gugging “tot”.” – So Broukal’s words regarding Elite-Uni Gugging on 6. ==References== Then it goes on: ==References== February – and that's exciting, what's there on 19 February. February – Mr Broukal wrote: project Elite-Uni “now a pipe-creper”. [[Abg. Broukal: I’ve never used the word “rohrkrepierer”!]] - Yes, it's in quotes! The tension at this APA message is that on the same day, i.e. also on 19th. In February 2006, the same APA notification states: ‘The SPÖ Niederösterreich welcomes the location for the elite union...’. This is very exciting: One part, on the SP-Bundes side, says no – but the other part of the party says, on the same day, yes! This has probably led to – obviously the SPÖ Lower Austria is still more important, yes, Lower Austria generally, than one or another in Vienna thought – that after a three-week period of thought, this great story came to be in the “Kurier” for Gusenbauer. ==References====External links== versus – I quote – March 2006: ‘Gaging is not the problem.’ Mr Broukal - as has so often been - has disavowed Gusenbauer, as he has just said in the final effect: ‘Gaging is not the problem.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] What you have said before, Mr Broukal, is that this location is “dead” that it is a “plug-creper” is not the case, but you from the SPÖ are very likely in the final effect for the site Gugging. Their chairman, Gusenbauer, quickly turned around the rower, because probably, as has already been said, one in the SPÖ is afraid of what might happen in an election campaign: that the SPÖ must be accused of science hostility – or that there may be other problems with its own party in Lower Austria. I do not know what led in the final effect to this rethinking in the SPÖ; You know that much better. Anyway, this has led the SPÖ to say no to this site first, then yes, first tick, then sack, everything dead, then to say it lives the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Very flexible!]] – Yes, “flexibility” can be called that. It is therefore quite exciting how to bring about such a change of opinion within the shortest time, or how it is only so and then so. In this respect, it is also important for me to point out this again on the subject of FWF and to clarify a few things here. You know, that's just the different way to run policies: They run out of the SPÖ and yell: We want to, that must be, and that must be it now! And if it goes well, you say that's yours. May be that way, hold your way, maybe beautiful for you, just: More important is the success for science, for basic research! And you didn't get that from the SPÖ! It is very important to me to say this clearly. This success has been achieved in this government, in particular by the BZÖ, because we have already increased the budget for the FWF on the basis of the recommendation of the Research and Technology Development Council – you know this recommendation. On the basis of this recommendation, we have become active and have entered into negotiations with the Minister for Finance in order to increase this fund, because we alone cannot achieve such a thing. At any rate, it is nice that we have succeeded in basic research in Austria. It is also clear to the Greens that this is an increase for the 2006 budget – and this should also be the benchmark for the budgets of the following years. We expect that there will be another increase. We too will take a close look at this, because otherwise it will not be possible to do this type of basic research, which we are all talking about here now. [[Abg. Krainer: On the Internet you can look at this!]] In my opinion, this is very clear in this sense, and it has also been explained to us that we do not jump on a moving train at the last moment because we know that our “great chairman” has changed his opinion – as is the case with you from the SPÖ – but with us it is so that we have expressed ourselves from the outset for a good thing and said: It is important for us to bring about this change within the government – and that is what we have done. In any case, we are pleased that this has ultimately come upon the approval of all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What I consider important is this suggestion regarding men and women: Perhaps it will be possible for us to take care of those persons who are ordered by the Federal Government if the high scientists themselves have problems finding internationally recognized and good scientists who will then be nominated in the curatorium. These seven members are nominated by scientists, which was a major concern of the international body, which we have also followed. For us it was always clear that the first draft, which was put in place for this purpose, is a basis of discussion which we discussed and discussed by the BZÖ with our internationally recognized scientists, all of which said that it is preferable for them to have the second proposal, namely that of Professor Haim Harari, incorporated into the law. That was why we said that it is important to implement this proposal in the form of this amendment. I would, as I said, like to see some women sitting in this board of directors. Very many may not be there, because it is unfortunately not yet very high the proportion of scientists in this field of top-level research, but we will continue to work on it – perhaps that together – so that it will change in the future. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] If you are afraid, Mr Greenewald, that there are jealous scientists sitting inside, looking only at what others get in the budget, and, as it were, competing people sitting in there, I will answer: What do you want from the Greens? On the one hand, you say that there must be a networking with universities, there must be a common interest, on the other hand, you criticize the fact that exactly these people are sitting in the board of trustees again! – This is a spatula that is truly difficult. In any case, it was always important that there is also a network with the universities, with other excellence that exists in Austria, which is undisputed. It is therefore important that other persons, who are of course involved in research, also sit in this body, which then do something not only in this institute, but also in other areas to fertilize each other so to speak. I think it is important that a lot of discussion is also discussed in this board of trustees, at the highest level. At any rate, I am glad that we finally and finally came to a good draft, something that finds international recognition, where policy sets the framework for researchers to work well so that we can take a first good step towards European excellence. I am also pleased that the SPÖ finally and finally its zigzag course – hopefully! – has ended and in this opinion remains that Gugging is a good location, that this institute is a good establishment with the board of trustees and that you can do good research there and ultimately say: All right, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20062	Mr Schultes, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20086	Mr President. An actual correction to the statements made by Mrs Sburny, who claimed here that the Chimpanzee project in Gänserndorf would not be due to a lack of money. She also said that because women are not involved, this is a problem. The fact is that the project with the chimpanzees in Gänserndorf is a project where laboratory monkeys infected with HIV, i.e. AIDS and hepatitis, are still present. can spend their lifetime there, but which are far away from a natural behavior in relation to their group behaviour, through long life in the cage. For this reason, science has also called this project, which was intended as a group behavior study project, inappropriate for these monkeys. So this has nothing to do with the money, but with the monkeys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20129	The next speaker was Mrs Fuhrmann. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20150	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The excitement of this discussion around the Excellence Institute is that at the moment there is the same situation at European level as here in Austria – and a discussion about an Excellence Institute has also been opened there: there at least as controversial as here in Austria, but: As in Austria, the European Institute of Technology will also prevail at EU level. This has already been said by education Commissioner Ján Figel within the framework of the EU Council of Ministers for Education, which met each other. He has also addressed the fact that European universities in particular are very broad, providing a large offer, but what is missing is the top. Therefore, it is all the more necessary to become fit at European level and to put top-level research in the foreground. It is only important and also right that Austria sets all the levers in motion in order not to go back there, but to be top riders, because if we want to co-shape at European level, if we also want to give the tone on the elite course, it is important that Austria makes the appropriate resources available. And Professor Seilinger was the one who said at the beginning of this year that it would be important to present a proper proposal by the end of the year so that it can be implemented quickly. That's exactly what's done now. And to that end, the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany must be congratulated very warmly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that with this Institute of Excellence here in Austria, we are first of all making a valuable contribution to the Lisbon strategy. It is also a possibility to strengthen competitiveness in Austria and, last but not least, to increase economic growth. If Mr. Dr. Grünewald said in advance that it was important to free the working conditions and the possibilities for the development of researchers, I think that is precisely what the Institute's aim is to do in addition to basic research. If Mrs Bundesminister has here also set the course towards the composition of the board of trustees, for which I would also like to make an amendment, that is, as I believe, a good compromise. Mr President. I am therefore submitting the amendment tabled by Mr Brinek, Mr Bleckmann, Mr Bleckmann, to the report of the Committee on Science and Research on motion for a resolution 798/A, and I would like to ask the President for its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 LEG for the distribution to MEPs. Let me briefly mention the four key points: Half of the board of trustees should at least consist of scientists, and the board of trustees has no fewer than 14 members to be considered internationally. Second point: The members of the board of trustees shall not have any other functions which could create a conflict of interest. Third point: The board of trustees can be extended by sponsors, but it must be ensured that the same number is given in relation to the number of scientists, i.e. the board of trustees can include additional scientists. Fourth point: The Board of Directors should also be responsible for the appointment of the President or the President at the same time. I am glad that this compromise has also led the SPÖ to agree. I also believe that the choice of the site is not a bad one, not to replicate the statements made by Dr. Grünewald – but rather to set a monument to the head of state in Lower Austria, because he was the only one who said I made an orderly offer. If this had been done by the mayor of Vienna, the institute might now be in Vienna, but unfortunately that was not the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a result, I would like to ask for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20229	I announce that the request from Mr Brinek, Mr Bleckmann, Mr Bleckmann, colleagues, which has just been presented in his key points, has also been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. With regard to the scope of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed; it shall be printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20427	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20448	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a knowledge-based society in which we are and which is developing rapidly must be given great attention, especially in training. It is therefore rightly at the heart of the political debate. I also believe that it is necessary to complement the fact that it is important that these highly trained people find employment – if possible in Austria. If I look at the rate of unemployed academics and their increase, I have to say that this is an average of 16 per cent per year since 2000, and this is also too high for a total increase of 5.9 per cent. This development must also be discussed in the context of higher education. However, I would also like to agree with Dr. Grünewald, who asked how to get, so to speak, those people who are suitable for a Center of Excellence. Of course, you need best universities, so you can't create a Center of Excellence or an Institute of Science and Technology without the background of good common universities. I am very glad that this strange discussion about Elite University is finally over, because one has realized that it is actually a postgraduate training facility for particularly interested people in a subject. These institutions can therefore only exist in total networking and in close connection with the parent universities. I have already said this in committee: For me, it would be important to build up such a wreath of centers of excellence around the universities, with appropriate spin-off effects, because only then does the whole thing make sense, where the location is not so important. As a Lower Austrian, I add that I welcome it and it is already okay when the location in Lower Austria is located. It is important that training and research are closely linked to achieve success. It also makes no sense to say now that it is all right for Parliamentary Broukal to spend €30 million on the FWF, because it is equally important to improve the facilities of universities where states are really not easy for the students and do not easily lead to a center of excellence, since some are happy when they have finished their studies. That is why it is important to be aware that one has a whole thing here. I am still thinking of several institutes. I say Seibersdorf now, which leads to a certain shadow existence. Why isn't this a center of excellence for material technology? Why are there not others, such as the Arsenal, who have excellent research results? I'm talking about a wreath of Centers of Excellence located around the main universities, in Innsbruck, Graz and at other locations. This means that you can, as it were, drive a continuous educational rail, up to the highest international peaks. Everyone knows that a tip only arises if you have a certain width of training. That is why I think this separation is preferable, while the other one is a bit dependent on it, is a wrong concept. And I say this very clearly: The concept is only based on creating teaching and learning conditions at the universities, which open up the opportunity to advance to the top education places of Europe and the world. We have to thank God, people in Austria who have this qualification. It is therefore good to build up institutions around these personalities so that they can finally exist in a European context. If I sometimes read about networking between universities and others, I have to say that only those who have never performed anything at a university can say that. Each university lives on the fact that it is highly networked; without networking it would soon become a dry branch. Therefore, the focus is not on the location issue, but on the people and their involvement. I remember the discussion about the Danube University of Krems. That's where Vice Chancellor Busek didn't want to agree at the time. Nevertheless, she shows – she has developed very well – that she has made a right decision. I am convinced that if we give the support – and I am right in giving Members the Green Forest – if we are to ensure appropriate equipment with equipment and resources, then we can also expect great success, since it is closely correlated with these factors. In this sense, I would like to thank you very much for agreeing, at least between the Social Democrats and the Government parties, because I believe it is a good contribution on the way to more knowledge and higher education, yes, to the highest level of education. I wish the Institute of Science and Technology much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20509	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20531	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a debate contribution was just to be heard, Austria is to become a good location for science and research. I can calm everyone, it is already an excellent location for science and research. This does not require the statement of the State Secretary for Research and Technology Development, but it is international evaluation criteria that lead us to this excellent position, such as the European Innovation Scoreboard, the Innovation Scoreboard: For the year 2005, we are in fifth place within the EU, and in 2003 it was still the tenth place. For example, this Innovation Scoreboard will evaluate – these are criteria! –: Public sector R & D expenditure, business R & D expenditure, graduates of scientific and technical studies, access to broadband, i.e. a range of indicators leading to evaluation. After all, fifth place, trend rising. Lisbon Scorecard VI, commissioned by the EU Commission, assesses us in third place regarding innovation – also increasing trend. Here, for example, indicators of social reforms, prosperity and productivity of a state are important. All the indices show and argue that Austria is an excellent, excellent location for research and development. Finally, of course, the research rate is also another proof of this: We are here on the path of the Lisbon Strategy, on the path 2.5 percent research rate of GDP in 2006, i.e. this year, and 3 percent in 2010. I particularly regret that the Green Group is going into isolation with its opinion; I also argue and justify why this is the case. As Mrs Federal Minister Gehrer has already carried out the original concept by a group of scientists and researchers, under the direction of Professor Zeilinger, Professor Schuster and Professor Schmidt. The reason Professor Seilinger got cold feet is clear: It was about the location. In the meantime, it is already such that he has a very positive assessment of the project as a whole, the lighthouse function also shows – this term is from him. But it was also the national committee, ladies and gentlemen, with quite a sounding name from science, which played a significant part and said: Yes, we need such an institute in Austria, it's important! –Professor Mittelstraß, Professor Bonn, Rector Badelt, Rector Winckler, University Professor President Mang. – One can stand to do what one wants, but for an objective assessment it is certainly important that these personalities can participate in such a law. I can tell you: also Professor Doctor, Wittgenstein Prizewinner Professor Gornik, Professor Kern, Professor Stingl and, of course, Rector Hans Sünkel. No, not only that, we have also asked an international committee to contribute its contributions to its international, global experience. Professor Haim Harari, Professor Kübler and, above all, Professor Hubert Markl have also provided their expertise here. – This has ultimately led to the emergence of this law, which is the subject of the negotiation today. I can add: Even the association of university professors has now clearly expressed its support. Professor Grünewald, that's why I'm talking about isolation. If you hit your hands over your head, I feel like I'm thinking: They don't seem to be as good as you. - Anyway. The university professor's association has also recognized: The Brain Drain in the direction of the USA is stopped – on the contrary, it's overturned! Additional money and sponsors are coming, yes, they are coming with this new institute! – And above all, the connection to the European Institute of Technology – a very, very important institution, which is intended to be a network within the European Union similar to Japanese and American institutions. And here, with our Institute of Science and Technology – Austria, we have the opportunity to create this connection for Austria, so to play at the front again. We do this, ladies and gentlemen, of course, because of research and science, but research and science alone are not, but it is also the result! It is about social prosperity, jobs, economic growth, which is the result. I also regret that the Greens do not take note here of the fact that more basic research at the highest level in Austria is possible with this institute. Ladies and gentlemen! A good law – it guarantees the freedom of science, it guarantees funding, and it also creates the basis for excellent basic research in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20607	Mrs Rossmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20628	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Even if you do not want to take note of it, you must now take note – especially the left-wing group of the Greens and the SPÖ – that this federal government has clearly become a research initiative from the very beginning. With its own State Secretary, who focuses on science and research, it has finally become possible – the Secretary of State himself has explained it to you, and I repeat again – we have achieved that the research rate is as high as never before. [[Call the SPÖ: What's his name?]] You just don't want to take note of this, but you have to take note of the figures! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a research rate of 2.35 percent, and expenditure on research and technology development has reached the historic peak of €5.8 billion in Austria. If that's not a success, I don't know what a success is! Austria has thus reached the top of the field from the European Mittelfeld – you have to take note of that too! And with this new elite union, we put one on it again, namely, toward an elite training. I know that in the left half of the empire the word "elite training" was always a proverbial red cloth, but we say: We are clearly committed to promoting, on the one hand, the weakest, but also to promoting a certain educational elite and also highly talented. And with this elite union, this step is taken. Although Mr Bauer claims that Mr Broukal has achieved that there are 30 million more inside the FWF, I must resist this: This is, please, only the merit of our Secretary of State Mainoni, who has negotiated with the Minister of Finance and was able to convince the Minister of Finance that €30 million is more necessary. This means that the fund is donated with €150 million. – Please note! I can only say that you can beautify yourself with foreign feathers – colleague Bleckmann has already shown the zigzag course of Mr Broukal and SPÖ on this issue – but fact is that we have more money for research with this elite union, we have a demonstration project and we have achieved, on the basis of the negotiation success of Mr Bleckmann and Secretary of State Mainoni, that networking with other excellence centres has been given and that political independence is also ensured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A huge success!]] – I believe that this is also essential: that the independence of research institutions is guaranteed and is not managed Party-politically. It is decided in the bodies of international experts. This is, I believe, a step towards international level, including in the European context, and another opportunity to strengthen our research and economic location in Austria. You'll take that... [[Abg. Oillinger: Actually, we have a FPÖ government alone!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: BZÖ!]] The SPÖ is there. I have to say that you have come to know that it is a good step, and we are pleased! – We are sorry that the Greens can still not win any elite training, but we are used to it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20714	The next speaker was Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20735	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Green Forest, I have already heard a little bit, I think, that you are a bit jealous of Lower Austria – and I say to you: That doesn't matter! It's better for us to look at us with envy than with pity. I can only congratulate my colleague, Mr Bauer, for having succeeded with the location of Klosterneuburg. I can also tell you that there were many skeptics in his ranks at that time at the Donau-Uni, which he mentioned, and today we are all happy that we have them. Today's decision to build this institute in Klosterneuburg will, I think, set a very important milestone, not only at national level, but also at Central European level. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Milestone or lighthouse?]] – Mr Green Forest, I think you are a failed man, but this significance can be You don't estimate high enough and you should be actually glad that we get this institute! I would particularly like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for not only taking up the idea quickly, but also treating it consistently and through. I would also like to thank Mr Pröll, the head of state, for the government he has led has presented an excellent offer and this offer has also decided on the location. This has been evaluated and the experts have also said that. I am pleased that the initial skepticism has turned away from the site. If the country of Lower Austria today provides €116.5 million for buildings, land and transport links, as stated in the Article-15a agreement, and €30 million for current operation, this is a great proof of the importance of science and research in Lower Austria. I have already said that the Danube University is today certainly the most modern university with 3,500 students, the high school sites of St. Pölten, Wiener Neustadt, Krems and Wieselburg and the private university for design in St. Pölten are all great signs of higher education in Lower Austria, and with the institute to be decided today another highlight is set. – I am delighted and thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20772	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20793	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker from my group, Dr Hannes Bauer, pointed out, this decision to establish this Elite Institute in Lower Austria is a positive one for us Lower Austrian Members, and I think that the country will be required to put a lot of transport measures and infrastructural measures around this region in order to improve the location there. It can't be like saying, One goes out, the other goes in. There will still be a lot of measures to be taken, and I hope that the enthusiasm will continue to do so. Of course, what I particularly like about it is that our colleagues have succeeded in accusing this board of trustees to 14 members, so to speak, in order to make science heard accordingly. I also see the increase in the fund to promote scientific research with €30 million as a very positive impulse, especially where it is necessary, namely in our existing universities. That is where I come to the point, Mrs Federal Minister, because a demonstration project, such as an elite institution, must also not conceal the fact that there is a massive lack of resources in the education system as a whole. We don't want to talk about it any more in the face of loud enthusiasm! We must already note that the constant savings suffered by universities have not improved quality. If I can cite it, I say that in 1999, the universities had 1.22 percent of GDP available, and in the 2006 budget they only received more than 0.98 percent. Of course it hurts. But this fits in the overall picture of the government work of the Federal Minister Gehrer. I remember that in the area of schools, too, there has been a shattering. In 2000 and 2001, a total of 5,000 teachers were reduced in compulsory schools. This means that more than 120 000 hours a week are less important measures to increase school quality. Mrs Bundesminister, all of this does not raise the quality of the broad basis we need in order to achieve top-level research and excellence. The Austrian youth always has the right to a federal government that is investing in the education system again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need the basis for this broad education quite simply. What I have noticed in recent times in connection with the debate on education is that there are PISA studies in the school sector, we have discussed education standards, and there have always been discussions about measurable results and questionable knowledge from our system. Education, however, is a comprehensive concept. It is about much more than simply questionable knowledge and skills that arise from purely questionable knowledge, it is about team ability, social competence, creativity, the will and ability to learn and to higher education. You can't check all of this, but you need a dedicated education system and enough resources. In recent years, SPÖ has made comprehensive proposals to improve the Austrian education system. As has been said, from a very small point of view, from early promotion to full-day schools, through the Academies' Law of Study to our proposals for the improvement of universities. We know where students, parents and teachers press the shoe. We also know, however, how most of the students at our universities are doing and what they are demanding. That is, there are no resources we want to give them back. Our policy is that we want to give all people the same access to education, because if we want to speak of an elite institute today, I would like to conclude by saying: Education must not become a luxury for a few, but education is a right for everyone!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20855	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am very pleased that Mr Bauer and Mr Schasching are so positive, but in these short two minutes available to me, I would like to make a few comments that further illustrate the SPÖ's zigzag course. After the SPÖ was not very clear for a long time, whether it wanted or not an Excellence Institute at all, and after the subsequent location question of St. Marx, Aspang, Gugging, the Vienna Science Councillor Mailath-Pokorny put up the crown: He wishes himself quite enthusiastically another Institute of Excellence, one for Humanities. That was at the Mozart lecture in the Albertina and then in a press release of 17th century. March. In principle, I think this is a good thought – but it is a very far-reaching advance. I think it's like this: If, at last, it is through joint or at least majority decisions – and, Mr Green Forest, it is not “top-down” and “divided from above”, the desire has been assumed by the scientists – it comes to a cooperation of all levels when the researchers have begun to work and there is this Europe-wide radiance that we wish for, and if Austria is rightly one The pioneering position must be claimed – then, of course, there is nothing in the way of further expansion for research institutions even in the humanities. That's what I hope I'll put on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20912	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20934	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about elites: Tips, excellence or whatever they may be called. But in order for them to be able to form, namely those who define themselves over performance and not through the wallet of the parents, we need the best possible starting conditions for all. And this is exactly what young people in our country are being taken more and more. I am particularly shaken, ladies and gentlemen, by the situation at the Institute of Education in Graz. 1 771 students face six professors, resulting in a care key of one to 295. In the summer semester, a selection took place that really has nothing to do with performance. Of 339 students, only 60 find a seminar place in the second semester, as the remaining 70 places are occupied by students who are already on the waiting list. And to these 339 students there are still about 170 students from higher semesters who also need this seminar. If you cannot have a score section of less than 2.5, you have no chance at all and the university will grant 700 € in tuition fees from the outset. The rest of you need good luck to find a seminar place. Whoever the luck is not hold, loses a whole year, because the necessary seminars are offered not every but only every second semester. The conditions at the University of Graz are only exemplary for many institutes, such as the Institute of Dentistry in Vienna. Her previous answers, Mrs. Minister, have exhausted the fact that the universities and faculties have enough money, but do not distribute it properly. This is very practical, this university autonomy, to which you can easily shift any responsibility. Those who have managed the skewer run of the courses then face the obstacle that only about 120 diplomas can be cared for each year. Again it says: from on to the expensive waiting bench! It costs young people a lot of time and money. They do not only have to pay the tuition fees, they also lose the right to scholarships and family allowances. A corresponding suggestion for a regulation extending the duration of the entitlement to study aid was rejected by your ministry with a hairdressing justification. In principle, studies under the new study regulations should be organised in such a way that study periods are essentially observed. However, there would be solutions in individual cases at the request of students. However, a general extension would not be appropriate for basic considerations. Well, I believe that from your point of view, Mrs Minister, if you want to give me your attention for a moment, because you do not want to admit that Austria's universities have been powerful since your havoc on all corners and ends. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! I have 288 requests from desperate young people, who are simply cut off the educational path and who are still to pay for it. However, you can make it easier for these and other young people by complying with our motion for a resolution and finally taking long-term measures to improve tuition fees. Mrs. Minister! I am now handing over these requests to you. Please take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e20997	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21029	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For years now, we have been talking about the European Research Area and the target of a research quota of 3 percent by 2010 and are always pleased when the quota has increased by a few tenths again. At present we are 2.35 percent and are therefore clearly ahead of the EU average of 1.9 percent. Young researchers, too, contribute very much to this quota, so as a Lower Austrian, I am delighted that this Institute of Science and Technology will be created in Klosterneuburg. I will now deal briefly with the costs, especially the benefits of the country of Lower Austria. For the first ten years, ISTA costs of € 571.5 million are estimated. 455 million € are reserved for the current operation. First of all, the federal government accounts for 195 million euros and for the country of Lower Austria 30 million euros and for third-party funds 135 million euros. The unique construction cost of € 80 million for buildings and infrastructure is also borne by Lower Austria. In addition, real estate costs taken over by the country amount to €35 million and costs for a transport connection of €1.5 million. I would also like to thank the Lower Austrian Members for having a positive impact on SPÖ on this decision. There will also be an international committee that will draw up the recommendations for the process at the founding stage and for the further expansion of the institute. For this, three high-ranking scientists were won, the two physicists Harari and Kübler and the biologist Markl. These, in turn, represent three renowned research institutes of world reputation, namely the Weizmann Institute, the Max Planck Society and ETH Zurich. This also ensures the absolute independence of research. Even for the spiritual father, Professor Seilinger, whom I personally know and estimate, the doors remain open. The Institute of Science and Technology is just another example of the comprehensive education offensive in recent years, and I think that will create good conditions for future scientific excellence in Austria. I would also like to thank Mrs Gehrer, Federal Minister Gorbach and Mr Mainoni for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21065	Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21087	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think the Chimpansenhaus in Gänserndorf is too important to do this with two, three fluffy words in the plenary, first because there are already ten of the 44 chimpanzees waiting for a transport to a zoo, because I think that Baxter has a moral responsibility beyond what it has already done, as well as we as the Republic, on the one hand, as a legislative one, because at the time we created the laws under which this was possible, and on the other hand, the executive has also approved the attitude and the animal testing. We have a responsibility because there are different variants, which can happen now. Is it possible to accommodate these monkeys in other reception stations in Europe – in the Netherlands, in Spain? Is it possible to expand Gänserndorf to a reception station? It is only important that we act, because if we do not act and nobody acts, then the fate of these monkeys is also sealed. I would suggest that the four animal protection spokespersons work together in a good way on a solution and prepare it for the plenary, whichever committee, and jointly draw up a proposal. Another word to promote excellence. I think excellence needs more than just one institute. It is not only necessary to: Mountain below the top, but also a coordinated policy where all possible areas need to be combined. There are still many problems, not only in the mountain for the top, but also – Mrs. Federal Minister, you will know this because you will certainly have heard the complaints of the rectors' conference – with the new branch and residence law on the issue of the implementation of international student exchange programmes such as CEEPUS II, on the question of the employment of researchers and visiting professors and on questions of procedural duration and the like. We are willing to help you, too, when it comes to negotiating with your colleague, Mr Prokop, on how to resolve these difficulties, and are at your disposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21117	Mr Kurzbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21138	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are adopting a very important law today. It is a milestone in the research and science landscape, and Austria is in the top European field thanks to this Federal Government in the field of research and technology development. We have already heard that the R & D ratio is currently 2.35 percent of GDP and that we have invested €5.8 billion in the past year 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right path, to achieve the Lisbon target by 2010, namely, 3% of GDP. But we are not only in the field of research and technology development, but also in the field of competitiveness. And in the ranking of European competitors, we are third to Denmark and Finland. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we should all be especially happy! With this new federal law on the University of Excellence, the successful path of the Federal Government will continue. This university offers conditions and enormous opportunities and opportunities for top-level research in Austria. These possibilities, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, as I mean, estimate today. The law enforcement is characterised by considerable pace and above all by appropriate quality: It was not until June 2004 that Professor Seilinger presented the plans for an Excellence University to the Council for Research and Technology Development, and on 29 June 2004 that the plans for an Excellence University were submitted to the Council. The results were presented this year and the Klosterneuburg site was established. This location offers everything necessary for a future location. That is why I would like to thank everyone very much, especially our Federal Minister Gehrer and our head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21181	Mrs Felzmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21202	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald meant that Austria would need excellent universities. – I would like to share with him here and today from this point of view: Austria already has excellent university and also non-university research institutions! We're already well positioned. For example, Professor Skalicky, rector of TU Vienna, would be grateful if he heard that you don't think many institutes and faculties are excellent! Secondly, We are developing further. Therefore, of course, the IST – the Institute of Science and Technology – is one of the building blocks on the international road. Many names have now been mentioned in this context. One of them missed me, on the Vienna level. Where was City Councillor Mailath-Pokorny? He is responsible for science in Vienna. How much did Vienna really use for the location? Would Vienna want to get the location? Where was he? I'm taking a paper: ‘Mailath-Pokorny shakt in the scene temple’. - That's what he's given! Dancing is healthy! Movement is wonderful! Only at the Vienna level at the SPÖ – Mailath-Pokorny and Häupl – the energy has apparently not been enough to deal with the topic of the top institute. That's a shame! But it is good that you agree today that we can take a common path with the SPÖ. Although the Greens have been involved in the Committee, unlike the SPÖ colleagues, they are not doing anything now. Shame! In any case, we continue to work on innovative concepts.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21238	I call Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Today is an interesting day. We are creating something at European level. The day has thus begun with the current hour and the results of the European Council. This is quite positive for Austria and confirms the Presidency of Austria under Chancellor Schüssel. Unfortunately, in the afternoon it went on a bit sad and sadr, not only for the house and this hall, but also for the country, quite unlike the current hour at the beginning. Now at the end of the day, with the current decision, there will be a bit of pleasure for the house, but also, of course, for Austria. This is also a historic decision! I am pleased that most of them are involved, and I am very sorry, especially for the Greens, that they are not involved on this historic date, because for Austria, it is also a great award at European level, that a great step is being taken forward here and ensured for the future of the progress of science and research in this country! We are not only doing this in our people and in the country, but we are also doing this as a model throughout Europe, and I think that requires the solidarity of all the Members present. That's why I'm sorry the Greens aren't going along. I want to say they've taken a chance! After much of my colleagues from the BZÖ, especially from the FPÖ and the ÖVP and partly from the SPÖ – the time is too short to go into it – I just want to thank and repeat nothing more. However, I do not want to miss out on expressing great respect and gratitude for our country in connection with this great decision, which has earned it for many years, including many improvements in connection with our research and science location, but above all with the educational location Austria, namely our Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21303	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take your seat, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria in 1358 of the Supplements. Mr Brinek, Mr Bleckmann, Mr Hizu have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mr Brinek, Dr Bleckmann, colleagues, tabled an amendment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, we have the opportunity to vote on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee for the conclusion of the Agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the establishment and operation of the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria and the Annex in 1344 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[20:17:34]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1327, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (27. KFG-Novelle) (1368 d.a.) 12. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1328, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a road tunnel safety law and amending the road traffic regulations in 1960 (1378, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21398	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21426	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There are extensive transport packages on the agenda. ==References====External links== KFG-Novelle is among other things the winter tire requirement for trucks. In winter, there have been problems with trucks that have stopped on motorways. With this novelle a winter tire requirement is now prescribed by law. ==References====External links== ==References== For trucks and semi-trailers with a total weight of more than 3 500 kilograms. The tyres marked with ‘M+S’ with corresponding profile depth are considered as winter tyres. From my point of view, it is also particularly important in this regard to include snow chains for at least two drive bikes, which we now regulate by law, so that trucks are well equipped for winter driving conditions. One of my main points is that this regulation also applies to foreign vehicles. Let's remember: In November, when there was severe snowfall in Carinthia, Slovenia’s trucks remained suspended. This winter tyre requirement now also applies to foreign trucks. [[Abg. Neudeck: I am for helmet duty on the government bank!]] It has been debated over and over again, and it is interesting: In Slovenia there is also a winter tire requirement, but the Slovenians have regulated this very peculiarly, there is a winter tire requirement there, but you can also drive with summer tires and snow chains. – This “good” Slovenian solution may have been the reason for the trucks to remain with us. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like us to talk about a winter tire requirement for cars now. There are always very clear indications that there is also a need for a winter tyre requirement for cars. 95 percent of the drivers drive winter tyres anyway. Personally, I would like you to look at this issue of winter tire duty for cars more closely in the ministry and examine the matter in more detail. In this sense, we will agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21462	I call Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21484	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am able to follow the remarks made by my previous speaker in a wide range of areas, but I must say that today we are in the 29th century. March write, and whoever heard the weather news has learned that from yesterday on today at night another 10 centimetres of snow have fallen. We have already stated in the Committee that we are not actually in favour of such a close appointment, i.e. between 15. ==References== March, because we believe that there can be winter collapses outside this period. And if there are winter break-ins, then of course the problem arises that trucks are very quickly across. Therefore, we believe that trucks must in principle have chains in addition to other equipment, which is no problem with the tonnages and weights of trucks. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] For trucks, a very accurate coordination must be between winter tyres and chains. I also let myself say that the profile heights are very closely connected to the length of the chains. Often difficulties arise when a chain link is missing in newly raised tyres and the chain cannot be set up. Therefore, it would be helpful for the truck and the snow chains to be technically connected in such a way that both are permanently on the road together. On the question of chain duty for passenger cars, which has also been mentioned: The Transport Safety Board also demands what I understand. However, it is real that some 90 to 95 percent of all cars are already equipped with winter maturing. This should therefore be re-examined, because the definition of what actually is exactly a winter tire is not yet clearly regulated by law. There are also full-year tires, and there are M+S tyres that do not grasp from a certain degree of hardness, even if the profile depth is given. In some situations, summer tyres are better than winter tyres. So, as the Secretary of State has promised, we should continue to discuss these matters. We'll try to get a survey on this. We are also concerned with road safety, which is no question at all. However, if you make legal provisions, you should design the law in such a way that everyone can stick to it and not then create a discussion as to whether it may have been winter tyres that were no longer suitable or whose profile depth was not correct. In this way, we can agree with our amendment to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21548	The amendment by Mr Eder, Mr Eder, Mrs Eder, Mrs Eder, Mr Eder, Mr Eder's amendment, has sufficient support and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21596	Mr Wittauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21618	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! With regard to road safety, one has seen what can happen last winter if trucks do not have winter tyres. Who cares? – This concerns especially transit, especially many who come from the eastern block and still drive with summer tires. We in Tyrol often experience the sad experience that with summer tires already there is a standstill in very small surveys and traffic is stopped. In such cases, there is no need for chains. But the winter tire or the M+S tire, the mating and snow tire, which is a year-round tire, serves the safety to overcome this survey. We have chain obligations in Austria immediately if snow-car is, anyway. The blue plates indicate that there is a chain obligation. But that does nothing at all if the vehicles are already across because they have summer tyres before, if there is no danger. On the issue of the already mentioned limited time frame: Winter is about 15th. November, but of course it can be a few days earlier. ==References====External links== March on. At this time there is a duty to also carry chains. I do not think that the Green Group's proposal that the chains should be carried by any truck all year round makes sense. We have rejected that. But I believe that this law has done a lot for security. We know what it means in mountainous regions when snow falls suddenly in November. Then everything stands, and it's a disaster. – I believe that with the law that supports three or four parties, we are taking a sensible course to solve this problem. I would like to make an amendment to the Motor Driving Act 1967. – Everyone remembers: We had a discussion about fog lights. We said we didn't take her in for daylight. We have received many inscriptions, and now we have found a solution that is worn by almost everyone. The Green Group would almost support the use of the fog lights integrated into the system, because they are not blinding anyone but are actually safety-oriented. The next advantage is that you do not have to exchange the bulbs so often and that those who do not yet have an independent device for daylight can use it. That was a wish of many. This request is supported by three parties – I hope Mrs Moser is still considering it. This is a sensible request, and it should be supported by all in the sense of road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21670	The amendment tabled by Mr Wittauer, Mr Wittauer, Mr Missethon and Mr Eder, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21732	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21754	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Clear: We're for a winter tire duty. Actually, there is now practically the requirement that you drive with winter tires, Even after the current road traffic regulations there are already bans for trucks if they do not have winter tyres. But we will, of course, support this. We are also in favour of greater road safety in road tunnels, which is why we also support this government template. We only want to insist that overall, when discussing road transport regulations, road safety is also taken into account at the pace. That is why I have also prepared an amendment because the installation measures for the section control on this test track are currently being implemented in Carinthia, which I am submitting. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be our proposal that this miserable pace 160 should not be tested in Carinthia. I am clear that the road traffic regulations should serve safety – not only in winter tyres, not only in the road tunnels, but also at the pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21826	The amendment tabled by Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Mosers, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr Moser, and others, said that this amendment The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21888	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21910	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have already passed a number of very, very important laws on road traffic and safety, and today we are adding another important law with the Road Tunnel Safety Act. With this law – a milestone for road safety! – Directive 2004/54/EC on the minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network, the so-called TERN, will be implemented once in Austria. However, in two respects we go beyond the requirements of the directive, first of all with regard to safety measures and safety standards. We are doing more in Austria than the directive requires. After the serious accident in the Tauerntunnel, the transport resort has set up a tunnel safety commission. All the tunnels have been checked, it has been evaluated, here has Council of Ministers Dipl.-Ing. Rudolf Hörhan, an excellent specialist in tunnel safety, deserves to be made, and that is now being implemented. Secondly, with regard to the scope, we go beyond the requirements of the directive. The directive goes in the direction that only all tunnels with more than 500 metres of length need to be included in the TERN network – the regulations for all tunnels apply to motorways and highways over 500 meters. We have time until 2019 to make the legal state, and we have to spend 1.1 billion € on Asfinag funds. So you know how much that is: by €300 million less than the Bawag put in the sand. For example, a lower share of this item concerns the reduction of emergency telephone distances, the reduction of escape distance distances or the complete video surveillance. However, the main costs relate to the construction of the second tunnel tubes, because both according to the directive – we have just passed the provision into the law – and now, according to law, two tunnel tubes have to be built in the case of a traffic volume of more than 10,000 motor vehicles per lane. In particular on the Pyhrn motorway A 9 the Klaus tunnel chain has to be built there, and also the Gleinalm tunnel – that will not be quite cheap – the Rheintal motorway with the Pfänder Tunnel or the Dalaaser Tunnel, Perjen Tunnel, Flirscher Tunnel, to name only the most important. We have also taken particular account of data protection through an amendment in the Committee. This means that video surveillance must be announced, and there are also precise legal requirements for the operation of this surveillance centre. The training of tunnel safety officers has also been clarified. They must be adequately trained according to RVS 14.226. I would like to thank the Transport Agency for the presentation of this law, which really is good for Europe, and I am looking forward to a unanimous adoption.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21958	I call Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e21979	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today we have a consensual matter, both in terms of tunnel safety and the requirement for winter tyres for trucks. I believe it is important to insert two seemingly unimportant but nevertheless very important transport points into a mosaic of road safety. The cars already drive to a high percentage with winter tyres. Perhaps we should consider making commitments to both winter and summer tyres in the Alpine countries, so to speak, in the initial equipment for cars. That could be part of the problem solution. In general, it can be found that the Austrian freight forwarders – I spoke with some – are actually very exemplary. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a district where the A 2 divides into the S 6, Semmering expressway, and the A 2 alternate section on the other side. In winter conditions, it is usually the same that not the trucks of Austrian freighters remain suspended, but the foreign trucks, although now there is a winter tire requirement for foreign trucks. Mostly they want Despite bad weather, foreign trucks quickly cross the mountain, and then the drama happens. They remain hanging and cause traffic jams and often serious accidents. That is why, I think, it would be useful for you to be more closely controlled at the border. Perhaps this issue could be included in the regulation, Mr State Secretary. From the eastern regions, especially from Ukraine, Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova, point out, scrap vehicles with tires that are not known are winter or summer tyres. If these cars drive into the mountains, no matter which side, then you notice how problematic the whole thing is. Therefore, it would be necessary for the Asfinag to carry out stronger border controls, with the help of the police or perhaps with the help of traffic radio in several languages. Perhaps this would be a way to consider that the vehicles from the east are the real causes of the whole problem. This has nothing to do with hostility to these freight forwarders, but that is the real problem. Ladies and gentlemen! We are happy to agree to this law because it essentially increases traffic safety in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22028	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22049	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The requirement for winter tyres is a very good contribution and a positive step towards improving road safety. Especially in the harsh winter it was often faced with the fact that because of lack of equipment stuck vehicles have caused congestion and caused accidents. Another safety aspect, which is now being negotiated in this law, is the legal anchoring of the safety standards for road tunnels. In this context, it must already be mentioned that the safety standards in the Austrian tunnels are at an international level, because there is a great deal of investment in the safety of the tunnels, but also in the development of second tunnel tubes. More than €300 million was spent in 2004 and 2005 to improve safety through the expansion of tunnel tubes. Transport safety, ladies and gentlemen, is generally a priority in the transport policy of Transport Minister Gorbach, and the results also show that correct and important measures have been taken. I could now list a whole range of awareness-raising, campaigns, but also very large financial investments, which lead to a massive improvement in road safety in Austria's roads. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Moser, we are in favour of increasing transport impact facilities, that there is also the possibility of carrying out measurements for the environment that positive measures will be taken through improved traffic flow. However, we also insist that there should be the possibility of introducing flexible speeds. We insist that under optimum conditions on optimum routes under optimum conditions, as measured by these Transport telecommunication systems, even higher speeds, must be allowed to speak 160 km/h. Ladies and gentlemen! The goal of halving the number of road deaths by 2010 is a very ambitious one. With the many measures put forward by this Federal Government, we are on a very good path. The figures from last year show that we had 30 percent less traffic deaths than in 1999. This shows us: We're on the right path! This draft law is another step in providing protection and security for people. That is why it is quite clear that we support these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22097	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22119	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! With the amendment of the Motor Driving Act, as I mean, we take a step that finds international attention. We are taking a step forward in this respect towards the Federal Republic of Germany, as far as the requirement for winter tyres is concerned, but this is also a necessity when we look at Slovenia. In Slovenia, the winter tyre requirement has reduced the frequency of accidents in trucks by around 12 percent. The Carinthian snow chaos has already been addressed. In this context, it has to be noted that around 70 percent of trucks had not taken up any winter tyres at the time, and therefore – one could say now, there is occasion legislation – the need for this reform is given. In this context, I should also like to refer to the already mentioned situation in the winter tyres requirement for passenger cars. If 95 percent are already using winter tyres voluntarily, that is the absolute majority, as I think. As has already been mentioned in the Committee on Transport, we should look at this subject in the context of a survey, because it serves safety. As I have already heard from my previous speaker, the aim is to reduce the number of deaths by half over the next ten years. In 1970 there were about 2,000 people who died in traffic in a year, at present it is around 848, but every dead person is one too much. That is why we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22152	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22173	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In the context of this novel, introducing the winter tire requirement for trucks between November and March, it is useful and, of course, welcome. More safety for all road users will be the result. We support this, of course, and that is why we will also give this novelle our approval. It is unfortunate that there would have been a number of proposals for improvement on our part, which, unfortunately, had not been heard by the governments in the Committee's deliberations – proposals which are still in place for security. Many improvements would have been made, especially on Austria's mountain and pass roads, such as the proposal to standardize for trucks the mandatory transport of snow chains all year round. In many regions of Austria, it is not rare for it to snow in the summer during a bad weather down to almost the lows. The fact that in April or October it will become almost a habit, as we have seen from today's reports in Tyrol, is almost normal for all of us and, of course, lies outside the time of this commitment, between March and November. Pass roads are then only very difficult to pass – and if, then, under very dangerous road conditions – from heavy vehicles. It is not rare that snow lies on the road even on these crossings, and because of the bad condition of summer tires, there are very serious accidents. In addition, foreign drivers with road conditions in Austria are sometimes not as familiar as domestic drivers, which in addition leads to problems. I see the urgent need for action here, because especially in months like this, at least snow chains would be very important for easier and safe crossing of mountain roads. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have ignored this proposal in committee. With today's request by Mr Eder, you have the opportunity to vote in favour of this proposal and thus to vote for increased safety on Austria's motorways. This amendment to the Motor Driving Act is certainly a step in the right direction, which is why we will also give it our consent. But I hope that the discussion will not be over, but will continue. There are, as has already been said, a number of proposals for improvement which we should also discuss in future and which we should implement in the sense of greater safety on Austria's roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22216	Mr Wattaul is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22237	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Of course, safety is very important. The winter tire requirement for trucks – specifically M+S tyres with a profile depth of four millimeters – I see as positive and as a contribution to increased road safety. But I would like to stress here that the Austrian transport industry is of course already driving these tires on the drive axles. I see this law with regard to southern or other foreign vehicles coming to Austria with summer tyres. As far as chaining is concerned, I must say that's certainly good. If the opposition comes up here, you should carry snow chains all year round, then I would remind you that in the case of a truck, once equipped with snow chains, these are not thrown away in the spring, but they are anyway in the vehicle anyway. That means they are normally carried in the vehicle. That is why, I believe, it is not necessary for chain enforcement to be prescribed throughout the year, although I give you the right that of course in May on the Prebichl or on Pass roads can be snow road. In summary, I would like to say that of course one must be clear: One should not put too many expectations into the winter tire requirement. I can tell you from practice if you don't have any chains on ice rinks or snow rinks No matter what profile the tires have on the vehicle, you will not continue. Of course, it makes sense for the tires to have a certain profile in the case of mating and snow rinks. You can say that you can live with the measures – that's why it's also a four-party matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22276	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22298	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out by the previous speakers that, by means of the Road Change Act, we are contributing to greater road safety, that we have set an ambitious goal, namely to halve the number of road fatalities by 2010. For this purpose, the winter equipment of all vehicles, especially the truck, is particularly important for our country. Anyone standing in traffic jams as road users could see that motor vehicles – whether trucks or cars – do not cause such traffic jams, but also accidents in which they themselves are harmed, including other road users up to fatal accidents. So it is only good and right that we in Austria decide on this law and take a very exemplary step for Europe. I would also like to mention tunnel safety in this context and I am pleased that much has been done especially in Upper Austria for the safety of the tunnels and, under the responsible speaker, Hiesl, special attention has been paid to the safety of the tunnels and a second tube is also built at neuralgical sites. I can remind you that about three weeks ago the groundwork for the Lainberg tunnel on the Pyhrn motorway took place. This change of law is particularly important for foreign vehicles. Mr Wattaul has already pointed out that our transport industry is, of course, adapted to the winter driving conditions in Austria and is on the road for example, while foreign car owners underestimate this or perhaps do not equip their vehicles for lack of money. That is why it is good that we decide on this commitment today. I would also like to give the right to say that a winter tyre requirement for passenger cars should also be introduced in the future. The period has been fixed, it is a minimum period for all to comply with. In addition, each one can equip his vehicle for the winter in order to obtain it in a driving condition.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22331	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22352	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been devastating tunnel accidents in recent years, which have led to this European directive, which now regulate minimum requirements for tunnel safety and higher safety standards for tunnels over 500 metres long for federal roads A and S. We think this regulation is very useful, so we will also give our approval. It is also because of devastating accidents in recent years that the Commission has also been appointed, as well as a tunnel representative, whose experience has now also been incorporated into this directive. We also find it positive that the tasks of tunnel managers and the use of video surveillance are now regulated in detail. These regulations and measures, such as the reduction of the distances for emergency calls or escape routes, will undoubtedly lead to high costs for projects already planned or a second tunnel tube for more than 10,000 vehicles per roadway. According to the Ministry, this is €1.1 billion for construction and renovation and about € 375 000 per year for staff. If you make a comparison with the BAWAG, then I can make a different comparison: [[Abg. May. Controller: I always believed that was a lot of money: 1.1 billion €!]] That is exactly the amount that has been redistributed by the workers to the corporations! Keywords: Cost. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How much is the bank Burgenland?]] – Everything is being rehabilitated, Mr Colleague! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] In any case, these are costs that we consider justified for reasons of safety or employment. Finally, I should like to draw attention to two important points from my point of view. On the one hand, the cost recovery. – Since truck traffic has a much higher risk potential compared to passenger transport – as evidence of this in yesterday’s news of more than 200 dead people alone in the event of accidents with trucks or the truck accidents in the Mont Blanc Tunnel or in the Tauerntunnel, which provided the reason for this European directive – it is only logical that the burden of costs should be borne, in particular, on the special toll routes through heavy traffic. On the other hand, the waste. – Due to the high cost, any form of mismanagement must be discontinued by the service companies of ASFINAG. The Court of Auditors has clearly expressed its views on this and has reported what an expensive maladministration there is. We believe, Mr State Secretary, that no euro should be missing in terms of security. That is why we call on you to speedily resolve these expensive malaises.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22408	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22430	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the largely unanimous approval of these traffic safety laws. As far as the winter tire requirement for trucks is concerned, we can assume that the number of accidents with subsequent traffic impairment will decrease significantly. However, I would also like to take up what Mr Marizzi said, who pointed out – which is right – that more foreign trucks are involved in traffic accidents on motorways in snowmach and winter smooths than in Austria, almost three times as many. We will certainly take this to the occasion to tighten up the controls at the borders during the winter months and to ensure that only trucks with appropriate winter tyres are on the road on Austria's roads. I would also like to point out that we will continue the discussion on passenger tyres. We will, together with the car driver associations, the curatorium and also international experts, organise a survey to discuss what the international experiences are, what the impact there has been and how tourism will react to, for example, the general requirement for winter tyres. Only then, when we have a clear picture of how this will affect and how the comparisons with abroad are, will we discuss it again and, ultimately, decide whether we will also vote in favour of an obligation for a car tire. We do not consider the request in the amendment that chains should also be carried in the summer. We have conducted a similar survey, including among experts. You don't think that's necessary. I would also like to point out that in summer only the least trucks will also travel corresponding mountain ranges where this is necessary, and precisely these will also carry winter tyres or chains in the summer. In addition, I think you have to remember that a complete set of chains weighs at least 100 kilos, and that means of course an additional spray consumption. I don't think that's necessarily necessary. I would just like to say to the Road Tunnel Safety Act that we have very high standards in Europe. I would like to thank our experts both at the Ministry of Transport and at the ASFINAG, who also make a great contribution to international work to increase tunnel safety, which we have succeeded in doing. We are also happy to reduce the number of heavy tunnel accidents in Austria, and we are also making an important contribution to improving road safety in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22475	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22496	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As part of the debate on the government template, which also includes the Road Tunnel Safety Act, I would like to mention, as a Tyrolean, a very concrete project in Tyrol, namely the Roppener Tunnel, a motorway tunnel that is still run by traffic and where the second tube is under construction. The cause of all accidents in the past was excessive speed and, above all, too little distance between the vehicles. About three years ago, we were able, together with the ASFINAG and the transport department of the country, to make a pilot project based on federal support, to install a kind of “section control” in the Roppener Tunnel, and this pilot project has shown in its conclusion that compliance with speed and keeping the distance between the vehicles in the tunnel could be greatly improved – not only because of the punishment of excesses, but above all because visible reference panels have been attached to the tunnel portals and thus also an educational factor has become effective. This pilot project has only been sporadically possible by means of the existing legislation. It is good and right that This application is intended to allow images to be stored for up to four hours and in case of significant disturbance even until the conclusion of the survey. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The safety in road tunnels has top priority because any misbehavior in a tunnel can have fatal consequences. That is why this step is a very important contribution to increasing road safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22533	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22554	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. The present Road Tunnel Safety Act implements the EU minimum standards on the one hand, and, on the other, it lays down higher safety standards for tunnels more than 500 metres in length in Austria on the other. Safety and above all safety measures play an essential role in road transport and are used in particular to prevent and reduce risks and also risks. Especially in road tunnels, it is important that the driver or driver feels safe and quite secure. In this context, I would like to mention positively that in recent years, adaptation work has actually been carried out for a greater degree of safety in the existing tunnels. Two comments on these opinions. On the one hand, it should be noted that there is no clear definition of the term ‘tunnel’. This is particularly important because a regulation distinguishes between the terms “tunnels” and “portal buildings” for the transport of dangerous goods. The difference is actually in the type of construction: Construction or civil engineering. However, the final product is a tunnel, and I therefore believe that clarification would be important and necessary. Second comment: The costs for the necessary tunnel adaptations amount to 1.1 billion € and are set at 1.1 billion €. From where these resources come, it is not quite clear in this paper. We reject a waste on the cars drivers. We believe that the 'polluter pays' principle must be met. Heavy transport has a higher risk potential and therefore needs to be used more to finance these measures. The implementation of the Tunnel and Security Directive is necessary, is important and we will therefore give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22594	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur and the rapporteur obviously do not want a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft. KFG-Novelle in 1368 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. Mr Wittauer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, colleagues and others tabled an additional request. First of all, I would like to vote on the supplementary proposal referred to, then on the part of the amendment concerned, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mrs Wittauer, Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal, which includes the insertion of a new point 1 and the resulting amendment of the number designations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning § 102 para. 9 ingested. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this draft law in third reading, I ask him for a positive sign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a road tunnel safety law and amends the road traffic regulations in 1960, in 1378 of the supplements. Mr Gabriela Moser, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Gabriela Moservor. First of all, I would like to vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote, then on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted. We shall vote separately on Article 1(17) of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for an important sign upon consent. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of point 1a into Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is done unanimously. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a positive sign. – The sign is given unanimously. The draft was also adopted at third reading. [[21:06:18]] 13. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1333, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Federal Roads Act 1971, and the Question No 342/A by Mr Kurt Eder, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Roads Act 1971, Question No 612/A (E) by Mr Anton Heinzl, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the immediate implementation of the S 34 (Traisentalschnellstraße); Amendment No 242/A (E) by Mrs Dkfm. Dr. Hannes Bauer, colleagues on four-track extension of the B 303 respectively. E 59 and on the Citizens' initiative (17/BI) concerning ‘Converse of the extension of the B 303 as a highway and subsequently as a future motorway’ (1369 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the petition (36/PET) on ‘Resolution of the market municipality of Guntramsdorf as an arrainer municipality of the A 2’, presented by Member Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek (1370 d.B.) 15. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 681/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the consideration of the opinion of the population on the planned construction of the A 3 motorway in the Wulkaprodersdorf area by amending the Federal Road Act (1371 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (13/BI) on “Resinuation of the Aure between Krems, Grafenwörth and Traismauer – Preventing the Danube Bridge near Traismauer and its associated route management” (1372 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 586/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members and colleagues, on the withdrawal of the route regulation on a questionable legal basis to Innsbruck-Mitte motorway connection point (AIM) (1373 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (20/BI) on the prevention of S 7 south of Lafnitz (1374 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 687/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the consideration of the opinion of the people on the planned construction of the S 7 motorway in the area of East Styria-Southburgenland by amending the Federal Road Act (1375 d.B.) 20. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (7/BI) on the amendment of the Austrian General Transport Plan (1376, e.g.) 21. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 90/A (E) by Dr Evelin Lichtenberger, Members of Parliament on the reduction of federal expenditure on roads (1377 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22865	We now come to points 13 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Its welcome time is 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22892	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We were able to recognize at the beginning of the debate by the President that we are now discussing very extensive issues on road construction and that there are a number of road construction projects which are very urgent and necessary, and that there are a number of people, on the other hand, of citizens who do not want these roads. This is a situation that is increasingly common, particularly in terms of investment in infrastructure. However, it is all the more important that we try to get in touch with the population as quickly as possible in areas with environmental impact assessments, in order to find understanding for important transport routes in our country and to finally enforce them. The Socialist Group will give its approval to all the road construction projects. However, I would like to add that we – this is very important! – must also have in mind a number of railway projects. Because it is not that we should only have roads in mind, but we must at the same time have in mind the important rail projects on the occasion – if we are today on road projects that are urgently necessary – and we are doing so. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: It's already being built!]] Mr Regler, if you say it's already built, that's all the more pleasing. But it's going to be... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: With a lot of money!]] Yeah, that's a lot of money. A number of projects are also being built which are not included in the TENs. We have heard – if you say it is already built around a lot of money – from the Federal Chancellor today that there are a number of cuts at European level. In other words, we have the project, we are now putting the streets we are talking about into the law, but it is very important that all of these routes are financed. The ASFINAG will also have to play a very important role. If you say it's already built, we're also looking forward to it, but we also need to know that the debt of the ASFINAG has grown from about €6 billion to about €9 billion or €8 to €9 billion. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: 8 billion!]] The debt and, above all, the interest must be paid, and it will also be the responsibility of the next government to give the ASFINAG the opportunity and the legal framework to pay the interest and these debts accordingly. I do not want to comment on the individual projects – and this will be done by a number of my colleagues and probably by your group – but it will be a very important question for us to give ASFINAG the opportunity to cover the enormous expenditure associated with these investments, because it will ultimately have to pay for the population. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: The drivers!]] We must therefore also be aware here that we are moving as efficiently and as efficiently as possible here as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22968	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e22990	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, A well developed and functioning infrastructure is one of the building blocks of a forward-looking and positive regional development. It is only if such infrastructure projects continue to be invested in that, that I believe is possible to maintain the economic location in these areas, including local services and all that is necessary. We have already heard from the Federal Chancellor today – and I am glad that this Federal Government is investing twice what the governments have previously invested. In other words, we can really secure jobs and the economic location in the regions outside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Investments in rural areas ultimately benefit everyone, not just the rural population. Those people who go from the city to the countryside and seek relaxation in the countryside also want an intact infrastructure. I would like to give you the most important example of the extension of the B 317; I am glad that we are adopting this in Parliament today. That's about the part of Scheifling after Dürnstein is included in the general transport plan. A 30-year struggle was needed that this section of the road can now be planned and expanded accordingly. This is important because it ensures the economic location of Obersteiermark accordingly and because this part is to be handed over to the ASFINAG until late summer of this year, according to plan. This result is a milestone for the completion of the high-level road network in the Styria. With this, we are getting closer to our goal that the B 317 will be four-track driveable from Jüdenburg to the Carinthian border until 2014. These infrastructure projects are also of particular importance because we have many commuters in the region, because we can thus reduce the flood of toll refugees accordingly and because we want more security. Because there are four dead every year on this route from Klagenfurt to Scheifling or after Jüdenburg. That is why we are called upon to rapidly develop this part together. That is why I am glad that there is also agreement here in the House on this project, although, of course, we also need to understand the concerns and the ideas of the people involved in the procedures accordingly, so that the process and the general acceptance of this project are positive. That is why I am very happy about this unanimity here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23041	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. 8 minutes welcome. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser checks her document material, which slows her down at the speaker's desk.]] That was the first 2 minutes of your speaking time, or how do I see it? – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg.No, no!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23085	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard that we are negotiating under a lot of conflicting agenda items. The first essential point is this Federal Road Act. In particular, it is a number of motorway-like roads – this is to pay the ASFINAG – which are designed to improve the accessibility of our eastern neighbours. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: Very important!]] No question, I am full of that, and I think that one should have done something long ago that the local population is less affected by this increasing traffic. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] But we are faced with the problem that small-scale localisations, which are useful, have not been driven forward and have not been made because these small-scale land travels should have been paid out of the budget of the country of Lower Austria. We have – and we have discussed this in various committees – the tendency of all federal states to save their national budgets and to dimension road projects in such a way that they automatically receive a highway or motorway rank so that they can be financed by ASFINAG. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This is the so-called financial-junglier mechanism in the road construction sector, which the federal states are operating over and over again. Moreover, in the specific case, parallel actions are being carried forward, i.e. a motorway/car link to the north, S 3, and then a real motorway, the A5, to the north, and that at a distance of perhaps 40 or a maximum of 50 kilometres, so that even the ASFINAG, in its opinion on this Federal Road Act, pointed out that these are competing projects, one to the other the vignette revenue – or at the truck toll – is excavating toll revenue. That's ghastly! This miscontrol in the street sector, i.e. the avoidance of local loops and the stylization to giant motorway and fast road projects, is a result of this two-pot economy. I am opposed to continuing to be over-dimensioned, and that is why I am also against this Federal Road Law. It comprises a total of five projects that make up 200 kilometers, and these 200 kilometers cost say and write 2.5 to 3 billion €, please! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] I mean, these are dimensions that we are otherwise only talking about in the context of the pension reform. Mr Fassleven! I'm curious how They now want to show me – purely mathematically – how this billion-dollar debt of ASFINAG will ever be settled. Because that's a lot of extra debt! We already have a debt of €9 billion. The general transport plan on which this additional road construction project is based in the Federal Road Act now provides for an additional €3 billion. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true anymore!]] I show you that we got graphics about the general transport projects from the ASFINAG – there are wonderful educational events. What do you think? – The list of all federal wishes includes €12 billion when you calculate it together! Who's to pay for this? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: The drivers!]] Please leave me alone, Mr. Regler. I told you in the committee that I am going to quote from a magazine, namely “International Transport”. In this, four valuable professors from the German region – TU Berlin and TU Dresden – have outlined the Austrian ASFINAG and financing model for long-distance roads. This is really a very instructive article, not only because one sees the revenue/expenditure situation in it and notes that the ASFINAG currently has 280 million in revenue plus thanks to the truck toll, but also that we have to cope with a volume of construction, which is why interest services will rise massively. [[Abg. May. Controller: No! Over 600...!]] Currently we have an interest rate service of 310 million, the future interest service is likely to amount to the 400 million. Please, then the 280 million are shrinking, and there is virtually no money to repay! Read in this journal; I would like to present it to you: “As long as routes are under construction, the construction costs are initially activated as “payments of fruit rights”; after completion and transport release (within the asset side of the balance sheet) a change to the position “Fruit right” is made.” – With the trick the ASFINAG debt makes length times width, length times three! Then read on in the scientific article: ‘These arrangements appear arbitrary as the expenditure on enlargement investment does not relate to the commercial value of the right of fruit pleasure,...’ It is noted that what you have now started as a road construction project is more or less necessarily leading either to an increase in the price of vignettes or to the car toll; Your road projects: Your S 3, your S 8 – I can count them wonderfully again – S 34, S 37, A 24! The A 24 is a great project at all, it costs 100 million kilometers. One kilometer costs 100 million, please! [[Abg. What about the A 26?]] Yeah, we could discuss them too, but I'll save you today. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All these projects, amounting to €3 billion, are more or less the guarantee that after the next choice – by you or by you – the car drivers will be given the car toll. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] I'm strictly opposed because I don't want these insanity projects. I want to cross-country traffic, and I want a smooth traffic. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am strictly opposed that a car toll will be imposed more or less on us from these giant projects! You are on the best way, and, Mr Kukacka, you do not hide it at all. Anyone has to pay the whole thing, it's not all about fictitious debt. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am in favour of paying back and reducing the construction measures – quite simply: I take the 280 million I have in Plus a year to repay, that is my proposal – and I do not do so for environmental reasons. Please, these projects go through fine dust recovery areas! We should stick to EU directives. There is the fine dust problem that people die earlier, there are the corresponding studies on it, but you are building on devils coming out of the high-level street network. For financial reasons I am against it, for health reasons I am against it! Some of them come from Lower Austria, where we have a nature reserve on March. ==References====External links== In my view, the citizens' rights opportunities, the opportunities for civil participation in this context are far too little. Although this Federal Road Law Novelle brings with it small improvements, they are far too little effective as we could in any way only agree with it. So, in total, we have a motorway construction policy at the expense of the future generation, at the expense of the drivers who are then really asked to check out, and a motorway construction policy that – I can finally quote the technical article – clearly serves whom? I quote: It serves lobbyists, for example the construction industry. In fact, “in the Austrian system of long-distance financing, it has probably greater chances that lobbying expenditure will lead to the desired results and a larger number of projects”. – There you have it black on white from the street construction and financing specialists from Berlin: The Austrian ASFINAG model is a model for the construction industry and for the banking world, at the expense of drivers and at the expense of the population living there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23225	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23247	Thank you, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Moser, you have said earlier that you welcome the extension to the east. We all welcome that connection to the east. On the other hand, however, there is also a request that we are dealing with in the Committee, and Mr Lichtenberger says that she wants to delete the funds for the national roads. Each one of us knows that we have distributed the federal roads and transferred them to the countries, and here you want to have the money away. This is a strange policy. [[Call the ÖVP: To the east of Innsbruck!]] Well, that's the next one. That is, on which one side would like On the other hand, you should not make any money available for it as much as possible. The construction industry will thank you. ASFINAG is a success story, also for the construction industry. In other words, every year not only investments in infrastructure will be made, but many jobs will also be maintained. You have to take note of that. If you now take these projects – every federal country that has received such a project, Lower Austria, Styria, Vienna – I can see this critically, but I can also see it positively. In so far as I see Vienna critically – not these 2.5 kilometres, which cost a lot of money, over 350 million, and the estimates are 700 million – when Mrs Bayr will make a request, which simply excludes the participation of Vienna from being said – because we have it in the proposal itself –: In order to improve the financing of federal roads, the legal possibility is provided for countries, municipalities and other legal entities to make a financial contribution. Vienna therefore goes here and says that we take a road on the land, it is important to us that every Austrian should pay, but we ourselves do not want to contribute anything! Lower Austria is making a contribution, Tyrol is making a contribution – in many areas whether that is noise protection, whether the descent is, that is already common today – only Vienna is different. Vienna gets the most money – everywhere – and wants to make the least of it. This is a strange policy. I will nevertheless support it because it is for the Viennans because the link is a better creation for the population. But I will certainly not accept a request that excludes Vienna from taking its share in these things. I think that has to be said. We fought for the exit Innsbruck Mitte, the Greens put in the election campaign – although it is now being built! – that they will set up this project. There is already a substantial improvement in Innsbruck, and Mrs Moser is here and wants to recruit a project that is already under way, and to make a ridiculous request, which we must deal with. The Exit Innsbruck Mitte will be a success story, and when people get in there and come directly into the middle of Innsbruck, they will experience that it is a better connection. In addition, people are relieved in this area. The three, four homeowners, who are then also served with noise protection measures and who are a citizens' initiative there – that's what you're looking for! I'll tell you: Look at all Innsbruck, then become You must support the Innsbruck Mitte exit instead of submitting such applications!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23280	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23302	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a favorite Member of Parliament I am of course very pleased that the S 24 – the span between the S 1, Rothneusidl, and the A 23, Hansson-Kurve – in It's a law inside. From this point of view, I think, often enough explains why it is really, really, very important. What makes my joy extremely sad, however, is the fact that there is an § 10 para. 3 which has been added to the Council of Ministers, according to which the Hansson-Spange is to be built only on the condition that Vienna takes on a cost contribution of about 50 percent – a “substantial cost contribution”, it says in the law – and that it is now now a new § 10 para. In my opinion, 2 is also contrary to the ASFINAG Act, § 2 of the ASFINAG Act, according to which the financing of federal roads is the task of ASFINAG and not also of countries and communities. Section 10 para. 3 also contradicts the division of competence according to the Federal Constitutional Act Art. Paragraph 10 1 Z 9, which is based in principle on a federal competence in the legislation and enforcement of federal roads. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Perhaps some of the arguments that have fallen on this road before. On the one hand: It will not be so that only Viennans will use this road. This is part of the high-level road network and will of course be available to everyone. That this street is expensive is also true. It is located in the densely built settlement area in favorites. To take those measures that ensure that the population is protected from noise, from exhaust gases and also from other loads by housing, sound protection et cetera, is only right and cheap – with cheap now of course the wrong word. Secondly, The fact that countries have also made financial contributions to federal roads so far is correct and is a fact. But it is a story when the countries or communities do on the basis of negotiations. It is a completely different story when a law lays down for a single road such a cost contribution is laid down by law. In my opinion, this is unconstitutional because it contradicts the principle of equality. I think that the decision of this amendment could restore a constitutional conformity, and I would ask you to support the amendment. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23385	The amendment tabled by Mrs Bayr is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23442	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23464	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! It is only recently that Austria has been recognized by the renowned London “Centre for European Reform” as an economic location with the highest level of competitiveness. This ranking among the top three in Europe clearly shows that Austria has put the right measures at the right time. With the Federal Road Law Novelle to be decided today, we decide on another important infrastructural measure, which will create the requirement for the economic location of Austria and its competitiveness to be expanded even more. A good transport infrastructure is the prerequisite for an economic location to continue to succeed, and therefore this Federal Road Law is so important and the right way for a successful future – both economic policy and transport policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This Federal Road Law Novelle is also welcomed by many sides. The ÖAMTC also confirms that this is an important measure in terms of transport policy, which speaks of a rapid start to construction for the projects under consideration. In addition to these positive effects, the employment aspect is also important, as the construction industry is thus given substantial impetus. Finally, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23546	The amendment tabled by Mr Haubner by Mrs Wittauer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Road Law 1971 is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the basis of the speech by Mr Haubner from Salzburg, I have to change my line of speech completely and actually start with the conclusion. It is not true that transport infrastructure expenditure means higher economic growth, but it is, as it were, exactly the opposite. [[Abg. Haubner: Oh, that's it?]] Peter Haubner, as Salzburger, you need to know what the expansion of the Tauern motorway for the Lungau has done. There has been a 9.4 percent reduction in jobs in Lungau since its expansion. Exactly in this period, jobs have increased by 4.9 percent in the central area of Salzburg. Mr Grillitsch also seems to write books on “land in danger” and on how difficult it is to operate in the emptying spaces at all, but here sings the great praises on road transport development and says it’s great if people can drive away from the regions even faster and the regions are so empty. – This is actually the case, that happens with this road development. That is also the reason why we Greens are so opposed to the amendment of this Federal Road Law. What are we most opposed to, or what is our protest against? – One is that we create new transit routes for trucks in Austria. We know from Western Austria what the consequences are. We know this from Tyrol that a high level of traffic reduces economic growth and causes regions to bleeding out. [[Abg. Gahr: But we have a positive economic growth!]] The second problem is: Two projects are clearly opposed to the Alpine Convention. We do not care about this in the year when we hold the Presidency in the Alpine Convention. We are in conflict with the transport protocol with these transport projects. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Can you repeat that again?]] – We are in conflict with the traffic protocol, and the Federal Minister Pröll is currently chairing the Alpine Convention. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: No, that with economic growth!]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Kukacka.]] - Yes! This concerns two streets, namely the S 34 and the S 37. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Developing traffic routes inhibits economic growth!? I've never heard anything like that before!]] In addition, the debt of ASFINAG will rise to the immeasurable. You may not mind, then, Mr State Secretary, because you are no longer the Secretary of State, but for the generations to come, that means a burden. Although we have now heard another hymn of praise, which is a great economic location in Austria, we have the fourth highest government and government debt ratio of the EU-15. These are also debts that the following generations have to pay! The ever-increasing effects of employment are just not mentioned. That was also one of our criticisms in the Transport Committee. We could not see the explanations of what employment effects could actually be expected. It is true, rather, that, apart from road construction, construction measures subsequently do not have a positive impact on employment. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Is this also a theory of Professor Van der Bellen?]] Furthermore, we were very surprised at how the strategic test traffic could achieve such a farce. It is not precisely the intention of a strategic test, the people who are dealing with it – on the one hand, the officials in the ministries concerned, on the other hand also the people affected – to leave their objections in the rain. They have not received an answer at all, and the ministry has not at all been concerned with this, not even with critical opinions from the department. All in all, with a view to ensuring that these road projects are carried out in air-conditioning areas and that there is already a problem with the problem of fine dust, we cannot accept such a law for good reasons and are more than concerned about the future development in the transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23704	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 4 minutes welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23725	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Rest-Hinterseer and Mrs Moser, if you listen to me, you would have to think that any road construction or any extension of roads is like a disaster or you are already going towards a crime that is being committed there. You have to remember what this means for the citizens. Remember that when taking over the local road network, there is a huge amount of relief from local traffic, a reduction in local traffic, and that, although Mrs Rester-Hinterseer believes that this is not true, but I am sure, it has a particularly positive effect on rural areas if better accessibility for commercial businesses can be ensured by road development, and that this also reduces migration. However, road construction alone is too little. There are other measures to be taken. However, good infrastructure is a prerequisite for farms to settle in rural regions. Ladies and gentlemen, more than €5 billion was spent on road construction in the years 2002 to 2006. It is good that a lot has been invested, as this increases the mobility of people, but also has a very positive impact on jobs and employment in Austria. . I think this is a very important aspect, which is also supported by these measures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, there is a need to take a great deal of account of road construction in the health and the environment. Mrs. Rester-Hinterseer, the strategic assessment in transport – this SPV procedure – is a very good procedure. It is a strategic planning instrument that compares several aspects and considers the impact on the environment as well as on the economy and the population at the same time and together. Investments for health and the environment in this government can be seen. In 2006, more than € 115 million will be invested in noise protection and housing measures. This is 14 times the amount of financial resources spent on road noise control and thus on health. You can't say that this is bad investment and that too much money is spent on it. However, it is also true and right that especially in the case of very expensive construction projects – in the case of health and the protection of the population – the countries and municipalities are co-financing. Mrs Bayr referred to the A24 in Vienna: Yes, it is very expensive, but where the construction measures are very important, because it is really to be protected by the houses and by renovations. However, as in the Committee, I would like to point out once again: Also in Upper Austria – in Linz – it worked very well that the Bindermichl was co-financed by both the federal government and the country as well as the city of Linz. Great measures have been taken for the people who live in the environment of the Bindermichl, and people are very relieved and grateful to all of us that so much money has been invested. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it is good, Mrs Bayr, that the present law also provides for the possibility that federal, state and local authorities will jointly implement projects that are very expensive, but which are invested for citizens. I think you should think about it again and withdraw your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23801	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23823	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: The decision to build the Traisental-Schnellstraße is a very positive decision for the Lower Austrian Central Area and for the capital of St. Pölten. They know that for more than a decade, the population, as well as the economy, has called for the realization of this important infrastructure project in the region. Again: It is therefore very welcome that my request will be fulfilled and that the Traisental-Schnellstraße will now be included in the Bundesstraßengesetz at least for the section Knoten St. Pölten to Wilhelmsburg Nord. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The Heinzl demanded this? The so-called Heinzl-...!]] The necessary extension to Traisen is to be carried out by the State of Lower Austria, as the Secretary of State and the Minister of Transport Gorbach have explained to us. From my point of view, however, a dissection of the Traisental-Schnellstraße into two parts has only a real sense of transport policy when both sections of the road – that is, the ASFINAG part in the form of the S 34 from the Knot St. Pölten-Wilhelmsburg to Wilhelmsburg Nord and the Land-Niederösterreich-Part continue on to Traisen – are built on a train. Otherwise, for reasons of road safety, the “death route” B 20 is discharged at only half a point. That is why I ask you, Mr State Secretary, the following questions, and I urgently ask you to reply: First: Is it part of the Convention with the State of Lower Austria that both sections are built at the same time or at the same time as possible? Secondly, Is the guarantee of the financing of the ASFINAG part junctuated in any way with the guarantee of the financing of the State of Lower Austria? Thirdly, Is it possible to see when and, above all, where the Land-Niederösterreich-Part of Traisental-Schnellstraße is built and whether the Land of Lower Austria has already ensured the financing of the road? [[Abg. Kainz: That's no question!]] People in the Lower Austrian Central Area are very interested in the answers to these questions. – If you have not understood the question, come to me and I'll repeat it to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23892	Mr Kainz is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23913	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Heinzl! I'm surprised you're asking if there's funding in Lower Austria. This was the case all the time – that was the case at Elite University, and this is also true of other infrastructure: We Lower Austrians keep word! The funding is available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: 240 million €? The funding is available?]] We build the second part, and the country of Vienna could also take an example of this, because it is natural for us in Lower Austria to work together to ensure that the federal government does its part, but the country also likes to do its own, so that the country goes forward and so that people do not stay on the track. – This is quite different in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Two good examples: Elite-Universität, Flugfeld Aspern – Bye! – The Traisental-Quick road will be implemented. That's not a question at all. That is why this is a good example. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also an example of how the Federal Roads Act invests: Investment is made in transport safety and accessibility, but also in the creation and protection of jobs. There are, I think, good examples. Already the Weinviertel-Schnellstraße – the S 3 – and the Marchfeld-Schnellstraße – the S 8 – are undoubtedly important transport connections, because, especially in view of the enlargement of the European Union and the situation that Lower Austria has really become a core country, optimal transport links are necessary. But also the Traisental highway – the S 34 – is a good example. The right measures are now being taken in a very sensitive region, which has serious economic times in particular due to the state-owned industry, so that it is uphill in this region that jobs are created, but transport safety as in all other areas is not too short. – This is the transport policy of this Federal Government, and I hope you will agree to this programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23960	Mr Bauer is now speaking for two minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e23981	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that when 17 years ago the Iron Curtain fell, it was clear to everyone that many transport policy measures in the Eastern region had to be implemented, that the infrastructure needed to be improved or reclaimed, because it was an infrastructure that ended at the Iron Border. Of course, we have expanded the rail first – all rail lines are relatively well developed – but we now have to make the small cross-border connections. The section from Mistelbach to Laa is now electrified, on the Franz-Josef-Bahn a piece on the Czech side will still be electrified. That is why we have followed what is actually necessary: giving public transport a high priority. But it is of course that modern roads must also be created. We have struggled for a long time to create the highway from Stockerau to the state border as a highway, which will ultimately also experience a continuation on the Czech side, thus extending the infrastructure accordingly, as well as the Marchfeldstraße is an important part towards Slovakia. One should not believe that we do not know that the continuation of the B 303 on the Czech side is necessary, but it is also necessary to build in Austria. And I believe that this decision today will bring a significant improvement not only to the quality of life for those people who today have to bear an average daily traffic of between 17 000 and 18 000 cars, but also to the economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the adoption of this decision today. Even if the paper has once stood, on resolutions and on requests – because I have put in many – you can't drive, I mean, even on this decision you can't drive if not quickly built. And I'm expressing this hope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24018	Mr Glaser is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24039	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Among the many points we are discussing under this item on the agenda is also a request from the Greens for the exception of the S 7 from the Federal Roads Act. I am glad that this request was rejected by a large majority in the Committee because I believe that the region concerned – the southern Burgenland and the southeastern Styria – would have been really fatal. In contrast to Mr Rester-Hinterseer, I think I am sure that where the regions are not accessible by appropriate roads, the migration is a multiple of what is to be seen in areas with corresponding roads. You only need to look around in the southern Burgenland and other regions. In this context, however, I would like to mention that, in planning this S7, it is very likely that the citizens' initiative has been taken into account here, taking into account the environment, that when planning, one tries to get away from Lafnitz as far as possible and to avoid tunnels and underfloors in the hill and forest areas adjacent to the valley. That is why I also believe that with this trail there is a maximum protection for flora and fauna, but also for humans. An example is this trail, however, an example of the SPÖ's zigzag course. While – let yourself say that! – the Burgenland SPÖ stands for this route, as it is now ordered, the new Styrian head of state wants everything that has already been checked, once again Mr Gusenbauer said the same on his start-up tour. So I think with this populism, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly not score in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24079	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24100	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr State Secretary, first of all I would like to thank you very much for not answering the questions you have given me. I haven't gotten them so far. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: It's only three days off!]] What does “three days ” mean? If I ask questions in committee and you are unable to answer them, but I promise that I will receive them in writing, then I need them for today's agenda item and not in two years' time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Already on the go!]] If I have a bad luck, you will answer the questions in the committee immediately, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another problem: It is not just about individual infrastructure problems, it is about problems of an entire region. You have, my Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, in the “format” safely read: Weinviertel, the final light in Austria: lowest gross regional product, weak income, hardly growth in the region, with the academic rate of the last place. In return: peace and good air. This has not been since yesterday, not since yesterday, it has been for decades, but changes have not taken place until now. It was very, very much promised, there were a lot of cuttings carried out, it was very, very little implemented. We need these projects, we need these projects immediately, we need these projects as much as possible. As an example, only the B 8, now a S 8, planned for a long time: first after Angers, now after Marchegg. In Marchegg, an economic park is to be created, for which ground-breaking foundations have already taken place. It is currently an asphalted area. The bridge over March is planned as a provisional. The groundbreaking ceremony took place years ago, today the law is included. We have the situation that until today we do not have a single open border crossing on the entire length of the border to Slovakia from Marchegg to the Danube estuary – and that 16 years after the opening! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For the measures in the wine district it is at the highest possible time!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24154	Mr Kurzbauer is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24175	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too will report on the subject S 36. Mr Heinzl! - Yes, yes, S 34! – Mr Heinzl, we are not on the "Wish what you want". [[Abg. Heinzl: S 34, if so!]] You know very well that there have been very long negotiations between BMVIT and our head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll, and in the end this piece of road has been taken from the node St. Pölten to Wilhelmsburg Nord in the high-level road network. Of course, we are all happy, and, as we know, construction will start in 2007. Now comes the next point you mentioned, the route from Wilhelmsburg Nord to Traisen. I was told that it will be a bit difficult because the municipality of Traisen should first provide a suitable property – that is a colleague of you who is mayor there, by your group – and then it will be possible for the country of Lower Austria to finance this section of the route. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all thank ourselves, of course, for the fact that this piece of road has been taken over into the high-level network. A special thank you to our head of state Pröll and Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24212	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24233	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the very beginning, I might just like to clarify some of the misunderstandings of Mr Moser because she spoke here about some of these concrete road projects. First: These road projects for the Weinviertel – Marchfeld-Schnellstraße, Nord Autobahn, Weinviertel-Schnellstraße – do not run parallel. If you look at the map, the Marchfeld motorway is the link to the east, towards Bratislava, the North motorway towards the northeast, towards Brno, further towards Poland and the Weinviertel-Schnellstraße simply the straight and shortest connection towards Prague and towards Berlin, thus towards the north of Europe. It is clear, of course, that such road links are closer in the centre than away, but there are no parallel connections, but they clearly have different destinations. [[Abg.: (a map and two parallel lines indicated) I signed this up here!]] There are also not oversized projects, my colleague, Moser, because if up to 40 000 vehicles are forecast for the S 3 to 20 000 cars in 2020 and for the Marchfeld-Quickstraße, I believe that this is simply necessary steps. I am therefore pleased that with this decision-making today, with the inclusion of these important road projects in the Federal Roads Act, 20 years after a SPÖ-dominated Federal Government has removed the already existing high-level road links to the north and to the forest district from the Federal Roads Act – that is, fact – to take this step now to reintegrate these necessary high-level road links into the Federal Roads Act. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: The ÖVP's Minister of Economic Affairs was responsible! Minister for Road Construction and Economic Affairs of the ÖVP since 1986!]] I also believe that it is necessary to continue to discuss over the last 20 years, but most of this time, Socialist Federal Chancellor, Socialist Finance Minister, Socialist Transport Ministers were already working. So please take note of that. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Graf – Federal Minister of the ÖVP! Schüssel – Federal Minister of the ÖVP! All the ministers of you!]] In conclusion, I am pleased that we can take this decision today: for the region concerned, for the more than 8,000 citizens who have supported these projects in the framework of my infrastructure platform, and I say that we will all work together to ensure that these projects are actually implemented quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24316	Mr Preineder is now speaking. His speaking time is also 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24337	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! With the revision of the Federal Road Law 1971 an adaptation to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is made. Neighbourhood rights are also being re-regulated. One important point, however, is the introduction of new routes into the federal road network and thus the expansion of important and necessary transport routes in our country. Especially here are the Weinviertel-Schnellstraße, the S 3, and the Marchfeld-Schnellstraße, which S 8 mentions. Both roads close decisive gaps in the North-South connection to the Czech Republic and in the East-West connection to Slovakia. The expansion of the transport link will also promote the economic development of rural areas north and east of Vienna. I believe that Mrs Rest-Hinterseer believes that good road links invigorate rural areas and do not empty out that these areas are becoming more attractive, because economic settlements are based on transport connections. Living and living spaces are also chosen after the distance to jobs and job opportunities. This investment clearly implements in Lower Austria the objective of the Federal Government, namely greater environmental compatibility of large-scale construction projects, easier integration of citizens, job creation and security, security for our economy and, ultimately, the implementation of EU enlargement. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In Marchfeld's fast road and in the Weinviertel-Schnellstraße, approximately €700 million are invested, a financial challenge for the ASFINAG, but in only half of the amount that BAWAG has lost, € 700 million, which is invested in Lower Austria and is not speculated, € 700 million, which are installed in the country, in the wine district, and not sunken in the sand of the Caribbean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Economic competence and Austrian awareness distinguish the ÖVP from the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24383	To answer some of the questions raised to him, Mr Kukacka spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24405	Mr President. High house! Mr Kummerer, I ask for some fairness. You know exactly that the Transport Committee meeting was only at the end of last week, and the letter to you with the request response is on the way. I can show you the draft reply here. I'd like to read it to you. I am convinced that you will have this letter in hand in the next few days. I would like to say to Mr Heinzl: Dear colleague Heinzl, the questions you have addressed to me are answered by the agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the extension of the Traisental-Schnellstraße S 34. This agreement will be decided by the Council of Ministers and will be decided by the Lower Austrian Government. I assume that the members of the Lower Austrian Government, including the Socialists, will certainly provide you with all these issues and this agreement. In addition, this agreement will be published in the federal law paper in the next few days, and from this you can also read the text. I would not like to read this to you in detail, especially in view of the other colleagues. On Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, who meant that we were infringing the Alpine Convention Transport Protocol with the transfer of these roads to the ASFINAG: I have to reject that. That's wrong. The inclusion of these roads does not violate this traffic protocol in any way, because it is only here that it is not intended to build new alpine roads. That's not the case. These are not alpine roads. So I think we are in line with the Alpine Convention, and I therefore believe that this accusation was unjustified. Finally on the topic of Hansson-Kurve. As Mrs Bayr said that this would be unconstitutional, I expressly note here: That's not the case. We only define the practice already handled in the law here. It's, I think, understandable why we're doing this. [[Abg. Bayr: There will be no funding by any other federal state!]] This construction project is the most expensive motorway project that has been implemented in Austria. Here, 400 million € are installed on 2.6 kilometres in Vienna. I believe that this is a great welcome from the federal government towards the city and the state of Vienna, and it is only natural that the country of Vienna is making a contribution to this road, which primarily serves the municipality and the locals. And this contribution will be recorded here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24447	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Fortunately, the conclusions will not be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Road Act in 1333 of the Supplements. Mr Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment here. Mr Wittauer, Mr Missethon, Mr Eder, Mr President, have also tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mr Bayr, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Where's the Croquis?]] Please, there's no Croquis for the clubmen? [[Abg. Neudeck: Only the opposition has got one!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No!]] Is it done? Is there a Croquis now? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes, thank you! Done!]] Now I was just about to interrupt. - Good. Members of the Bayr, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning the deletion of § 10 para. 2 and 3 in Z 16 I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – Mr Wittauer, what is your sign? [[as this one has gone into court between the bank lines]] Causation's not a sign. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We are now voting on these parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mrs Wittauer, Dipl.-Ing. Missethon, Eder, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 26 and the resulting renumberings and point 31. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of the present draft law in third reading, I ask him for a sign. – The sign is given by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1370 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is assumed to be unique. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of its report in 1371. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given by the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1372. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This sign is given unanimously. The request was therefore accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1373 of the additions. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – The sign is given by the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of his report in 1374 of the additions. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This sign is given unanimously. The application is therefore accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1375 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of its report 1376 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who do this to be a sign. – This sign is once again given unanimously. The application is therefore accepted. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1377 of the supplements. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[22:12:50]] 22. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (1270 D.B._Other Organiser Bunesgesetz, which amends the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspection (Verkehrs- Arbeitsinspektionsgesetz) and the Federal Act on Cable Railways (Seilbahngesetz) (1379 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24587	Now we get to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens Mr Böhm with a word of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24614	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present governing body deals with the amendment of the Transport Labour Inspectorate Act in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 70/2003. Who is the main concern of this? – The ÖBB-Postbus GesmbH, railway and cable car companies, but not tow lift operators, as well as vehicles according to the Marine Shipping Act 1981 – except for sports boats – as well as telecom companies and mainly social and welfare facilities. This is mainly the reporting obligation of the aforementioned companies in the event of an accident at work, to be reported within five days, in the case of a traffic labour inspector. So far, the doctor has reported accidents at work. In turn, the insurance institutions informed the labour inspectorate. Double holds better: Doctors and companies must report at the same time. This is, by the way, a control system which should have been introduced at the banking level, especially for trade unions. For example, this institution could have prevented the bankruptcy of the Salzburg company Atomic. Alois Rohrmoser was sent into bankruptcy, so that the BAWAG had a liquidity shortage – then already! - was able to counteract. Have you ever been to the Caribbean? – Not me, but, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: You should go there, your union funds are already there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24653	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24675	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have undertaken to give my colleague Böhm the right to join his opinion, but to his sidestep to Atomic and Mr Rohrmoser, I can say that: Mr. Rohrmoser went bankrupt with 1.5 billion schilling and bought a castle in the same way elsewhere by 1.5 billion. The BAWAG cannot tolerate this with the money of the small savers, nor can it pay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is due, Mr Böhm: Those who have been in politics for 30 years certainly know a little more than those who are only five years full of it. But I would ask: Let's get back to the agenda! This new law is essential. We have heard, Mr Böhm has also raised the points. We are talking about five specific points to be innovation. It is high time to adapt this law from 1994 now. The Social Democrats will agree to this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24714	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24735	Mr President. I have to deal with Alois pipe musser, since this topic has already been mentioned here. Of course, some things were not quite all right in this bankruptcy, since some things went wrong and pipe musser fought for his right for a long time. Unfortunately, God died early. So: Don't confuse things! It would still be worth studying how this came about today, because Atomic was a successful company. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this new law, a focus is included. In this respect, the official responsible also told us that they had revenues of €4,000, but the administrative burden in these areas was so high that this is negligible. That's why you don't have the €4,000 and take the 50-€ lower limit. The fact that transport lines are now being taken in with this new labour law system makes sense in order to have an overall overview. As you can see, there is broad consensus: Everyone is right; we too will do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24775	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24796	These measures – the report of the Labour Inspectorate is always of solid quality – lead to improvements. Because of our strong winter tourism industry, we know how important cable cars are, we know how safe they should be. It has been learned from the past unhappiness. There has now been some judicial action. The basis for proper investigations are always solid documents, and solid documents can provide the labour inspectorate. That is why we are Greens, of course, in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24833	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24854	Mr President. High house! The changes in the field of transport labour inspection law are, as my previous speakers stressed, undisputed. We have already agreed on this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. These are adaptations to the cable car law 2003, adaptations to the restructuring of the ÖBB and adaptations to the new shipping regulations. The reporting obligation for accidents at work for those transport workers for whom there is no statutory reporting obligation on accident insurance institutions is positive. In this way, it was responded to the fact that there were no statutory reporting obligations for accidents at work in the field of officials of the Vienna line. Transport labour inspection is responsible for the railway, postal, ships and aircraft sectors, i.e. more than 136 000 workers. Its tasks include essentially the control of transport undertakings in respect of compliance with workers' protection rules. If one now considers that reducing the processing effort, which we all support, is the absolutely positive effect of this template, it can also be assumed that now the labour inspectors are staying more time for their core tasks. These tasks lie in the further development of worker protection regulations, the faster treatment of projects, inspections and controls, as well as the advice of workers and employers. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I should also like to express the agreement of the Socialists on this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24891	The last speaker is Mr Reheis. He also wants to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24913	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! If you look at the list of cable car accidents in the past, it is very, very important that important measures be taken by the Transport Labour Inspectorate in particular to ensure the safety of passengers, especially as regards the staff employed by the cable car companies. So in the future, some things can be avoided. Perhaps such accidents can be prevented by a correspondingly severe labour inspection. The amendment of the Transport Labour Inspectorate Act also responds, among other things, to the fact that, for certain areas, no statutory reporting obligation for accidents at work has existed by means of accident insurance companies. it has. This amendment now provides for an employer's reporting obligation directly to the transport labour inspectorate in this case. Positively, this government template now includes administrative simplification, which entails a reduction in the processing effort for the labour inspectors. We will therefore agree to this law and this change of conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e24949	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1270 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:23:12]] 23. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (1281, e.g._Other Organiser Act of revision of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents (European Patent Convention) of 5 July 1990 (OJ L 337, 30.12.1989, p. 1). On October 17, 1973, last revised on October 17, 1973. of 28 December 1991, together with the two decisions of the Administrative Board of 28 December 1991 June 2001 (1380 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25001	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat, and we have a constitutional vote, that is, a quota of 92 Members in the House. There is only one speaker on this point. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Rester-Hinterseer has spoken. She wants to talk to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25032	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This draft government is about the file to revise the Convention on the Grant of European Patents. We are in principle in favour of a revision of the EPC and also of adapting to international developments such as the TRIPS Agreement. However, at the then conference in Munich in front of the European Patent Office, we also expressed our massive concerns, which have still not been eliminated over the years. We have discussed in the committee whether there are patents on human organisms and living beings. This has been denied. It is, however, true that patents were granted to human beings and human-animal actors. As early as 1999, the EPO granted a patent for a mixture. That was a Australian company, the company AMRAD, which has extracted gene parts from embryonic stem cells of humans, mice, birds, sheep, pigs, cattle, goats or fish and has patented them for the production of foams. We believe that this form of patent allocation must be deeply rejected. This is also surprising because the EPO declared publicly in October 2000 that such patents would violate the good practices, but that it could do nothing more about them now. The same thing then took place again in February of next year, that is, 2000. A patent was granted on human embryos. First, the EPO denied this – but it was actually found – but then said that this patenting was an error. However, this error cannot be reversed. What are our demands? – Our demands remain that genes, plants, animals, people and parts of the human body should not be patented at all. The Member States of the European Patent Convention, including Austria, must, as political control, ensure that the European Patent Office no longer grant any further patents on life. We also call for an independent, democratic and publicly comprehensible control body to be established in order to prevent future events as they have occurred in the European Patent Office in recent years. We will continue to monitor this together with the European Greens in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25074	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, and the two decisions of the Board of Directors of 28 May. In June 2001, approval was granted in 1281 of the supplements. In view of the fact that Article 1 No. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 70 of the revision act are constitutional, but not the provisions adopted or inserted by these new or new provisions, I put first within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The required two-thirds majority is given. [[22:27:57]] 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-185 D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2005/12 (1352 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25123	We arrive at the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25153	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! I would like to open the statement of views on the Court of Auditors' reports with a contribution to the control of VAT. - It's clear that way. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is nice for a mayor when he opens something!]] - Please be careful, my dear colleague, Neudeck! But then there is a very nice expression: ‘Parallel Audit of the Court of Auditors and Swiss Financial Control’. So here two control bodies in their results were compared, and the subject of their review was VAT and VAT. There have been very interesting results. [[Abg. Neudeck: Like in the Caribbean!]] For example: Although the Court of Auditors notes that the structure of VAT in Austria and Switzerland is largely the same, in 2003, revenue from VAT in Austria amounted to €16.5 billion, which is 31 percent of federal revenue. In Switzerland it was € 11.3 billion, which is 33 percent of the federal income. However: In Austria we have 20 percent VAT rate, and in Switzerland – you hear and marvel! – it is only 7.6 percent. This may already have some reasons, but these figures speak for themselves, and it would be interesting, Mr State Secretary, to look much more closely at the results from these results, but the Court of Auditors also says that we are dealing with a very high degree of fraud and, with it, very high control costs. Another distinction, although Switzerland actually takes up more sales tax – as a percentage – is that the smallest companies in Switzerland are exempt from the sales tax up to a turnover of €48 500, which is only €22 000 in Austria. The Court of Auditors' recommendation should be followed here, which means that a higher limit on VAT exemption should also be exceeded in Austria. That would be a very good approach to thinking about it. Who does that help above all? This helps small and small businesses, companies, which, in part, also in our rural areas ensure that local services still work in some way. This would be a real aid to our small and smallest rural businesses if they were to be subject to an increase in the turnover tax limit, i.e. the limit from which a turnover tax is to be paid would be raised. This reduces administrative burden and also increases the scope of calculation in order to survive economically. A very exciting story, because I think what is cheap for the farmers should be good for the small entrepreneurs as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would be a very, very interesting consideration. Then Mr Grillitsch could save himself his proposals for the rescue of the local supply and the small host by saying that the host will survive if they are postal partners. The hosts will not survive either because this is not a business. However, the increase in the turnover tax limit would be a real aid.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25206	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25230	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, Mr Gässner pointed out in a rather audacious manner that this parallel audit, carried out jointly by the Court of Auditors with the Swiss tax authorities, came to very interesting and constructive results. There is no doubt that a summary of this is going towards the fight against fraud. And there are very likely approaches and considerations, which are already employed in the Ministry of Finance, namely, the increase of the border between companies on direct sales of goods and services from around €5,000, as the Federal Republic of Germany thinks, or about €10,000, as one might imagine in Austria, in order to avoid the wrongful use of pre-tax and, on the other hand, the loss of VAT. In a similar direction, this reverse-charge model, where only the end-user pays, goes primarily in terms of services and services. A test operation in the construction sector has brought a result of around 200 million additional revenue and could also be extended to sectors such as transport, cleaning, care and the like. In the same direction, consideration should also be given to reduced tax rates on services, including housing renovation and the like. What is undoubtedly also interesting – and therefore the Court of Auditors should thank it for this really excellent work that has been done here – are the dimensions of the auditors and their results, and should not be overlooked that these 160 auditors are active in Switzerland as the Federal Authority, but the cantonal test bodies are not included. In Austria, 1,746 examiners were on the road in relation to the year 2003 and carried out 42,500 examinations, however comprehensive and all federal taxes. What I would like to stress is the consideration regarding the increase in the tax duty on turnover tax to about €35 000. This would be a measure which is quite appropriate and can be seen in the sense of economic support for SMEs, as well as all these considerations, as already introduced by Karl-Heinz Grasser at the last meetings and meetings of EU finance ministers, which are about using the Presidency as a means of optimising taxation.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25270	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25291	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! I cannot agree with the previous speaker that we are now tracking all possible segments, where we are able to re-establish sales tax reliefs and thus completely shatter the whole system. The temptations are, of course, big. But he said a second one: The Court of Auditors has pointed out that we could take a reasonable initiative here, not in the Court of Auditors, but here in plenary, if we were simply to raise this VAT limit, because in reality there was little loss of tax revenue, but quite a lot of bureaucracy for many people. It was striking that in the report itself the Ministry of Finance has already signaled some approval. The Members of the Court of Auditors were all not entirely up-to-date with the debate, I have noted. Unfortunately, this was also presented in the “Hohes Haus ” program, in the truest sense of the word. So I would like to appeal from this point of view that Members should perhaps be better prepared for the committee debates. – This is also said. That wasn't a fame sheet. That was really unpleasant. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank you, Mr. Teacher!]] [[Abg. Faul: Does that apply to you, too?]] – Yes, but I have not only read the report, I was in the Court of Auditors for two hours the day before, and I have been well informed by the investigating officials. Now, of course, we can say that the proposed tax exemption of €35 000 is not the right thing because another would be better. But I have again discovered a Salomon wisdom of the Court of Auditors, because if you calculate exactly, you think that he has used the arithmetical means between the very low amount in Austria and the relatively high level in Switzerland. That is, at €22 000 and €48 000 we are exactly in the middle with €35 000. I would have suspected that this was once again the mandatory Salomon access of the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Finance has, as I can read here, given some approval. But this is not yet the really spectacular point. The report is worth mentioning, in itself, and I do not think it is for good reason that the Court of Auditors once again respect and thank them for making these cross-border and comparative audits at all, even in a segment that is relatively difficult, such as the assessment of various VAT systems and the execution of systems as such. So hat off! I think this can be seen across Europe, even what you and Swiss – I don't know what that means anymore – can be seen with the Swiss Court of Auditors... – Yes, I have not really noticed that. [[President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser: Federal Financial Control!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Bad watch!]] But there is a very different connection... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] Mr Gahr, you are giving me the floor. [[Abg. Steibl: It is a pity about the time to speak when you have to listen to this!]] There is also another connection between Switzerland and Austria. This is not only the European Football Championship, it is not only the comparative Court of Auditors report, it is perhaps also the fact that certain operations in the executive and execution sector are being disclosed to Parliament in Switzerland. We don't have to wait for the 2006 World Cup because we can also watch the World Cup and European Championships. In any case: There are several parallels to Switzerland, just one: the Austrian Parliament is not exposed to the Eurofighter Treaty! We are not only behind Switzerland, no, we are also behind the Federal Republic of Germany. In the Federal Republic of Germany, it is a duty for this to be disclosed to both the Defence Committee and the Budget Committee. – And this is not just a duty: The Committee on Budgets may not approve it until such contracts have been made public! Not so in Austria! . But we will soon have another opportunity to discuss this again at the next item on the agenda. With Switzerland and Germany not enough: It is much better in Romania too. The Eurofighter GesmbH armaments group has made this clear in Romania: at the call of parliamentarians, because they did not want to please the fact that certain security technologies are only agreed with the government by contract, and they wanted to put a bar on this one. And unlike Austria, the parliamentarians in Romania were relatively successful: Within a very short time, the Treaties of EEAS have been made open to Parliament. Take an example – at least at Bucharest!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25396	Next speaker: Mr Neudeck. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25418	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Kogler distributes censorships, as one prepares for the committee, I can also distribute the censorship that the Eurofighter Treaty has nothing to do with the current issue and that this was not the case. On the other hand: I think that as long as the strike fund is not disclosed by the trade union and we do not know where these funds are going, what they are responsible for, we will also be able to live by not seeing the Eurofighter Treaty. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I do not want to give you once again the same figures that have already been set out by colleagues. I cannot open this again, as a colleague, Mr Gaßner, has done. Mayor likes to open up everything. In any case, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for one of these steps towards internationality. It is not only that this parallel audit, by the Court of Auditors, will, as it were, exceed the borders of Austria, but there are other audits that the Court of Auditors will carry out at international level. I would like to thank Mr Moser, Mr President, for his very interesting work on behalf of the Court of Auditors. Mr Gaßner, one of them: The VAT rates were introduced under a SPÖ government; first, a SP-only government introduced this system. The tax rates were introduced under a socially democratic government, under a Social Democratic Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... and you don't have long!]] – Mr Gaßner, 1972 I was a FPÖ member, I was a youth obmann in Vienna. I was not yet in Parliament, therefore: I am not such a “fossil” again! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] The BZÖ has not yet existed, but in 30 years we will talk about how long the BZÖ already exists; then you may make this call for the BZÖ again. [[Call the SPÖ:Listen!]] It is true that these tax rates were introduced among the Federal Socialist ministers; at that time there was even a luxury tax rate of 30 percent. We could probably also significantly reduce VAT rates if we did not have to take over such a high debt mountain from you in the year 2000; then we would probably also be going out with the 7.6 percent of Switzerland. I would ask Mr Finz, Secretary of State, to ask the Minister of Finance not to miss out on the option – which is going on tomorrow – for the introduction of a reduced VAT rate, the so-called Luxembourg model, because I think it is his responsibility to say that in his period he does not introduce it. If we don't get to 31. On March 2010, we cannot introduce it until 2010. I think it's fair for the Minister of Finance to say: This will not be introduced as long as I am a minister, but I think it is absolutely necessary to opt for it in order not to perhaps prejudicate a successor that he cannot then introduce this relief for the small and medium-sized enterprises of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25479	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25501	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the approval by all four political groups of this House of this new kind of reporting and for the fact that the Court of Auditors has carried out parallel audits with the Court of Auditors of other countries, in this case with Swiss financial control. This is therefore important for the Court of Auditors, because, as you know, in times of globalisation and increased international cooperation within the framework of intergovernmental treaties, the tasks of the Courts of Auditors are becoming more and more similar, and it is also true that, in increasing cooperation within the framework of the EU, cooperation between national accounting authorities is necessary, and is absolutely essential. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, in the area of cross-border transport projects, in environmental conservation projects, in areas where procurement and development projects are carried out between several countries, as well as in areas where there is actually a loss of revenue such as VAT and VAT fraud. The Austrian Court of Auditors has put forward these tasks, as you have said positively here, namely, that it has also given the EU Presidency of Austria the opportunity to develop a position paper, in the form that the Court of Auditors is interested in the fact that EU funds are also used sparingly, economically and expediently. In the last ten years, the European Court of Auditors has not been able to give full confirmation, i.e. due to the shortcomings, due to errors in the control system, a proper testat was not possible. In this case, as I believe, it is also a task of the Austrian Court of Auditors to set up initiatives on this subject by the EU net payer Austria. At any rate, I am pleased that the initiative towards positions, how to actually improve the control system in the EU, has been positively welcomed, that this has come about in large reluctance both in Austria and in the EU as a whole. On the other hand, this parallel audit was carried out with the Federal Financial Control, with a view – which has already been mentioned – to a systematic comparison of external audits, in particular with regard to VAT, in order to gain experience and key figures and learn from them within the framework of the Best Practice. Another important point, because you have already dealt with an external audit of the financial offices here, in the first phase. This was with the audit report 7/2005, which showed how strong or good the external audit of the financial administration in Austria is. The same thing was done in Switzerland. These two tests are involved in this examination, which is now under treatment to show exactly where there are strengths, where there are weaknesses – and especially where you can learn from each other. Even if the time is already a little advanced, I allow myself to say here: I think it is appropriate to point out where there are significant differences and in which areas the Austrian or the Swiss financial administration can learn from each other. It was also addressed that entry for tax liability in Switzerland is more than twice as high as in Austria. In Switzerland there is an entry limit for VAT from €48 585, in Austria it is €22 000. This leads to a total of 312,000 businesses registered in Switzerland and 1.1 million in Austria. That is to say, in Switzerland there are 60 percent small businesses, in Austria 92 percent. If you compare this with regard to large businesses, you can see that Austria is a little behind it: in Switzerland 38 000 large businesses, in Austria 18 500. One important aspect is also the reform of financial management, as well as: How does the survey take place, how does control take place in Switzerland and Austria? It is true that in Switzerland the external audit, especially in the case of VAT, is carried out centrally, but the collection of taxes on income and wealth or income is carried out by the 26 cantons, that is, decentralised. In Austria, we have a central survey of both sales tax and income and income tax. In Austria we have 1 500 testers, in Switzerland, as regards VAT, 160 testers. It is also true that control density in Austria is much stronger. In Austria we have a total of 42 500 external examinations, in Switzerland 6 700. Another comparison with regard to examination intervals: in Switzerland, for large businesses, an examination interval of 19 years, in Austria of three years. As regards the examination intervals of medium-sized enterprises: in Austria 19 years, in Switzerland 37 years. As regards the case selection – also an important aspect – it is so that in Switzerland the auditors can decide which cases are actually under examination. That is, the examiner gets a list of 200 cases printed out, and he works them off. In Austria – and I think the Commissioner Puswald is also – there is a time, group and case selection and the examiner has no way to influence the test result. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Does he know?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Whether the Puswald knows?]] It was mentioned that it would be appropriate and appropriate to compare this result in the framework of the Best Practice to raise the VAT limit on small businesses. It has been proposed, at €35 000, and it is also gratifying that the financial management in this respect has taken up this intention and will continue to pursue. In addition – and now we have the importance to carry out both audits – it has been shown that sales tax pre-registrations in Austria are only to be made from an annual turnover limit of € 100 000. In other words, it would also be appropriate to be able to make a risk-oriented choice and, as in Switzerland, to relieve small businesses, to raise the VAT limit to €35 000 in this area on the one hand, but at the same time to ensure that VAT applications are issued earlier, or less than €100 000, in order to be more efficient and target-oriented. I refer to the fact that only the external audit of the financial offices has shown that two out of three sales tax audits amounted to less than €3,600; that is, one has chosen cases that were not very efficient. This is probably because the data was not available to carry out a risk-oriented selection. Finally, I would like to point out that the Court's staff have been thanked. I would also like to give this thanks and also thank the examiners. In particular, I would also like to thank my colleagues from Switzerland – and I hope you will – who, through his constructive cooperation, has certainly also contributed significantly to the fact that the experience of this parallel audit can be considered extremely positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25572	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Puswald. 3 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25608	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, thank you for the high quality and style of your statements. Mr State Secretary, we can only wish for this from you and Mr Grasser Finance Minister. I fear that this wish will not be heard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: Red on the matter, Puswald!]] However, in the context of this agenda item, the Court of Auditors has also criticised, on several sides, the influence on supervisory and board orders, the influence in the design of board contracts and in the management of the Supervisory Board, and has pointed to huge shortcomings in this regard. The Court of Auditors has also criticised the direct intervention of key post positions, an opaque handling of this conflict that has been found there, which has marked the entire process. [[Abg. Neudeck: What topic are you on now? – This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] In this report, the Court of Auditors criticises enormous non-necessary consultation costs and, above all, a not only competence vacuum, but also a sustainable and profound impairment of positive business development. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Neudeck: colleague, you have the wrong speech!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] The speech is true, and the amazing is – you will probably have thought, I am talking about the BAWAG –: No, we are talking about Mr Finanzminister, who has influenced the conference centre in a way that has been constantly criticized by you today, as we have heard. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In other words, There is not a red network, but it is a grass network that needs a very precise illumination – Mr Matznetter has already mentioned it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25727	Mr Neudeck, speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We don't like this constant sequence of calls. The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25752	If Mr Neudeck is so excited, I understand, because we have recently discussed examples of a “wonderful”, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, black and blue-orange economic policy, especially in the case of the procurement of the black Minister Fassleven, where really millions of taxpayers have been put into the sand, or the Eurofighter – thank you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer! – where the taxpayer is demanding billions of euros, which are not brought in anywhere, contrary to what your party announces. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... Eurofighter funded!]] So the black and orange-blue half of the empire has really demonstrated that it has failed in economic policy at all corners and ends. And it goes to the city of Klagenfurt, where your black friends are highly criticized by the Court of Auditors in their financial policy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I'm just saying BAWAG!]] And whenever you say “BAWAG”, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, just look at the black side, because there are enough blacks there, for example, a Mr. Dr. Koren. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Then you don't think of anything anymore!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25829	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25850	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My colleague Puswald obviously missed the subject. We are talking here about the parallel audit, and in this context I should like to congratulate the President of the Court of Auditors on this report, which repeatedly confirms to me that higher taxes may not bring any higher yields. The ÖVP was always a pioneer when it was about to relieve the businesses. I can remind you: The income tax reform in 1989 was based on a company tax which originally accounted for more than 70 percent, and now the corporate tax is reduced to 22 percent, which may bring us some tax losses in the medium term, but will secure tax revenue in the long term. The same will be true of sales tax, and I really have to say that the low tax rates in Switzerland, for example the normal rate of 7.6 percent, the 20 percent VAT rate, for foodstuffs 2.4 percent – with us it is 10 percent – with accommodation 3.6 percent – with us 10 percent – and also result in the same percentage of total income relative to the same percentage of total income. I would be very pleased if this tax limit would be increased to €35 000, because this would be an important step in particular to reduce the administrative burden on our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25890	The last speaker to speak was Mr. Prince. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25911	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the content of the parallel audit everything has actually been said, my dear colleague Christian Puswald; you have only caught the wrong Court of Auditors report in your statement! I would now like to spare the SPÖ to rethink the topic in the afternoon and discuss the SPÖ economic policy in relation to BAWAG, ARBÖ and the like; I think that would be necessary. It is really up to the Court of Auditors to thank for the suggestions, and it is about approaching the suggestions and, on the other hand, I think, international comparisons are quite positive. And you can see that thanks to the tax morale in Austria, God is very positive, so that we can afford a very good policy for families and children, for example. Or do we think of the high social rate and the area of social expenditure: Here too, Austria is exemplary, and this is very valuable. In this sense, comparisons are always positive in order to receive suggestions for the future. Thank you to the Court of Auditors for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25941	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-185 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – The consent will be... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Mr Donabauer! We are in the middle of a voting process, and there is no speech. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are only calls!]] Again, I will start by reading the text of the vote: We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-185 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – The majority of the House has given its approval. The report is adopted. [[22:59:19]] 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-146 D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct, series Bund 2005/4 (1354 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e25995	We now reach 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Faul. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26022	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can see that Mr Puswald has already entered the next item on the agenda, because since you, Mr State Secretary, made yourself here today with the Minister of Finance and played yourself as the Saubermen of the Republic, you have to consider this scandal, the conversion of the Austria Center to the Karl-Heinz-Grasser Center. [[Call the ÖVP:Read on the matter!]] This is actually the knitting pattern of the blue-black or orange-black government that passes through: through the federal property, through the museums, through the federal railways, through the ASFINAG. Always the same motto: It can cost what it wants – the main thing is it serves the friends! [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] At the Austrian Center, it was actually the same way: The old Supervisory Board has been removed, new Supervisory Boards have been sought from friends, and the best friend, Rupperti, has still been made chairman of the Supervisory Board. He was a guarantee that other friends who had already earned in the homepage affair would also have received the orders they wanted – in absolute terms, without tendering, with oral assignments. The summit was then finally when one found one with the Zehnder-Boss Kappl, which was commissioned without a call for tender and orally to look for or identify a Chairman of the board. And the top thing was that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board made himself the Executive Board in the last episode – again without any call for tender and against any logic: It was just him! He has considered that he wants to do this himself, and that has also been assumed, because it has just fit Karl-Heinz Grasser. But now comes the best, Colleague Neudeck: Hardly was he the board of directors, he increased the salary by three times – all alone as a board of directors with his colleagues – he spoke out for the dismissal of himself – an immeasurable! – he took out a value adjustment of his salary – which was already indescribable! And because this too is too little, he has still promised a cure insurance of €3,000 himself. I mean, that hits the barrel out of the ground! He took over the insurance scheme for his private car, and then he had to pay for matters where not even the Court of Auditors had come up to this day, about which issues had been raised; he had at least doubts. – And that was quite normal for one or two people: for Karl-Heinz Grasser and State Secretary Finz.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26073	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26095	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Faul, the Board of Directors was very well advertised, and Mr Rupperti, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, applied. – So stick to the truth! Although you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, once again see the situation differently and make it worse and scandalize everything, I would like you to address the record sales of € 15 million in 2005 for the Austrian Center Vienna or for the conference center, which is very positive. [[Abg. Parnigoni: fairytale hour!]] Last year 146 events with 300,000 visitors were held at the Austrian Center Vienna, which is a 9 percent increase. [[Abg. Faul: It has already done that before...!]] Previously, there were only negative operational results, and now, in the last two years, there are consistently positive results. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] With 15 million € After all, the Austrian Center is below the top 3 in Europe. And remember: 60,000 out of 300,000 visitors came from abroad, and for Vienna's tourism – Vienna is absolutely red – this means a huge added value. At least one third of the €390 million that the event tourism of the city of Vienna brought in the previous year, according to Congress statistics, has been utilised by the Austrian Center. - I don't know why you're always riding around on this order process. [[Call the SPÖ: Because it was a pigry!]] It is a pleasure if you always look into the past because you can learn something from the past, of course, but you should also look into the future! Some of the Court's recommendations or criticisms have already been met. Compare, as said, with the past and with the results of the past: The comparison of the 1992 Court of Auditors report – with the results of the hollow announcements and incorrect SPÖ decision-making policy at the time – now seems at least to be better. Vienna has become one of the world's leading congress metropolises. This success is not a random product, it is the result of professional efforts in this field, and the amount the IAKW has to pay for it should already be a praise to us. Mr. Board of Directors Rupperti has shown us how, when you get out of the tourism industry, you really manage the business and how to bring operational results to the positive area. – Deny it, but it is not true!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26159	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26197	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not quite sure whether the excitation was appropriate from the outset and whether the reference to the report before us can be found on any economic data in the area of tourism. I think we have a very different reference to consider here, namely the classic Grasser’s post-occupying reference, and that’s how it goes – you really have to think about it now, so that you have all the ingredients together and get back together so properly that history becomes comprehensible, because it itself is inconceivable. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is hard at this time!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... tomorrow in the morning!]] The story goes so far. [[Abg. Neudeck: Go back to your place – and then no more!]] There is a Supervisory Board Chairman who is once the friend of Grasser; we are already starting. [[Call to the liberals: At the BAWAG!]] – No, you have found them in Carinthia, there are also known friends – “Holiday with friends” – and from this corner this gentleman, the Supervisory Board chairman, has come. And then he was on his way for months and months and still for a month looking for appropriate manager for the Executive Board of this outstanding and admittedly important company. Now we have to introduce the advisory situation, don't we? – That’s what this Federal Government is cutting to the body! Mr State Secretary, I don't know where you just sticked to your advisor. Under the chair maybe? – He doesn't look out yet. – So now the consultant comes into play, but not as it might be tolerable, at least would be desirable, namely that the consultant would be used by a call for tender, because he is proving himself as the best consultant in a tender, no! – It did exist, didn't it? Three, four consultants have just applied for a call, but just two consultants have been nominated, as the report says. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, go?]] Yes, yes! And by whom? – By the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who has been looking for the best Executive Board at this place for half a year or a quarter of a year! [[Abg. Scheibner: What's his name?]] And now he's got an advisory firm that's proposing the following: You know what, Chairman? [[Abg. Scheibner: So what's his name?]] That's how it is now: We've actually got a lot of stuff, and there's actually only one really good board, and that's you! – And now it has been beneficial again that the one who explains it to him was the one he chose. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thank you!]] And that's the system post office and post office call à la Grasser! This principle is 1 : 1 passed through, and at the end it really came out! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is too complicated for us today!]] At the end – Mr Neudeck enjoys himself, he knows exactly anyway – it has been so that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, who has been looking for a year now, has finally found one – namely, himself! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is there a simpler variant?]] The best Chairman of the board, who can be there, is he himself – a friend of Grasser! Now, of course, we need another Supervisory Board chairman, because such a lamp wants to be replaced, don't we? It leaves a gap, you have to see! As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, one has now come to play golf in Spain for the most part. For this reason, the costs for the Supervisory Board meetings have also been exploded: because they have to fly into Spain's current state of affairs – for the Supervisory Council meetings. [[Abg. Scheibner:... may have the better wine!]] And even here it is not quite clear what the skills and the certificates are. The context of disclosure of the Eurofighter contracts is as follows: This conference center, which obviously does not come out without these managers, is a pure event for dry swimming. [[Abg. Neudeck: Liechtenstein has already tried that before!]] You need a few planes in the air because otherwise the balance sheets no longer vote and no one comes to Congress anymore. You explained this to us: No one comes to Congress if we don't get these fighter planes called Eurofighter in 2007 – but late. [[Abg. Mr Scheibner: Madam President, can you not even do something?]] Now I ask you: If all of this is so important and so dramatic, even for the conference centre, why is this Parliament not disclosed to that Treaty which might support this proof of importance. It is different from in Switzerland, unlike in Germany, probably different from Albania, but different from Romania. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's only about Congress!]] We're here in the present! Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26416	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26437	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Mr Kogler, I wonder what do people in the Court of Auditors spend hours sitting there and questioning you. Somehow there must be a source of well-being there. I will also check with the officials in the Court of Auditors before the next Court of Auditors if I have understood the report correctly, Mr Kogler, then I may be able to do it so well. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That would certainly be helpful!]] I come to the point now: The truth is probably in the middle. If one were to ignore that the order process around the Board of Management Rupperti was not the most elegant in recent years, then one would appreciate the Court of Auditors' work much less. And I do not want this because I believe that the Court of Auditors is doing a very good job. The opposition sometimes needs to read out something that is also justified. But about the ordering process, I would say, we cover the coat of silence. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ah so! All of a sudden!]] – Not at once, I have already said that in committee, you have not listened if you were present, colleague. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I am not in the Court of Auditors!]] I also referred to this as not an elegant order in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also insisted that we should... – not over everything, I would have liked to help him over you, but unfortunately that does not help, that would be very good, but it is not possible. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You want to spread the coat over everything!]] But we insisted that we could have a discussion with Executive Director Rupperti in the Committee, and we were convinced in the Committee that he was first of all a very good salesman of his person and secondly also of the conference center. He can be very good, and he has also delivered good numbers. The Court of Auditors also says that the 2004 figures were much better than the figures before. We then agreed that we would look to the future. Rupperti has also given an outlook on the future of the conference centre. In this context, it should also be pointed out that, for example, the cost of asbestos problems in the conference centre has been reduced by the activity of Rupperti from about 55 million to around 24 million – I say about that, because this sum was awarded, it may be that something still appears and it will be a little more – so there was a substantial potential for saving it. I believe that, as I said, one can spread the coat of silence about the order, but we have been satisfied with the work of Rupperti in the IAKW so far. And I hope that the congresses will continue to take place so many times in the future and that we will continue to have a positive outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26520	Mr Dr. Finz, State Secretary, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26541	Madam President. High house! I would like to point out once again that the Supervisory Board alone is responsible for the appointment of board members of stock companies in accordance with the Stock Corporations Act. The Annual General Meeting is therefore not responsible, so the owner or his representative has no direct means of influence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Based on the share-law provisions, the Chairman of a Supervisory Board is also exempted to apply for the function of the Executive Board. Or can you give me a provision that would not be allowed? There was no overlap between the position as Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board at any time. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Christmas fairy tales!]] As a result of a hearing, Mr Rupperti, whose jury was composed of members of the Supervisory Board and the Works Council, among other things, became the most suitable candidate unanimously – unanimously! – appointed to the Board of Directors. [[Abg. Faul: which he himself has compiled!]] Already in the first financial year, he was able to increase sales from €8.9 million budgeted to €9.8 million. Mr Faul, there is therefore no background at all for your accusations that you have made here. It was an objective order! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26604	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26625	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! As was not expected, once again a Court of Auditors report on arbitrary and unheard-of transactions in post positions in the area of responsibility of this Federal Government. Once again, board contracts were elaborated and were violated by the employment law and, of course, by the contract stencil regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Illegality!]] The Court of Auditors is right to vehement these contracts. What, for example, did the ÖVP accountant, Mr Gahr, say about these accusations of the Court of Auditors? – He said: Good manager cost! What did Mr Neudeck say about this in an issue of the “Kurier ”? – He said: I do not find myself in the fact that there are more highly paid managers and fewer and fewer employees! – This is a very remarkable statement by a government politician. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the next item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: ARBÖ!]] I have to congratulate you, however, on a statement also made to the “Kurier. ” In this, Mr Neudeck says that it is clear to him that good managers have to offer salaries, as they are paid in similar businesses in the private sector, because otherwise you only get people from the political exodus or unsuccessful economics. [[Abg. Scheibner: But not as much as the ARBÖ!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Good thing the BAWAG managers had such salaries!]] Well, bravo! Thereby the deep knowledge and the rich experience of post-occupying by ÖVP and BZÖ prevail during their reign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] To refresh, I can remember a few specialists on the topic of qualified and well-paid managers with very low inhibition thresholds when downsizing and when doing little performance – keyword: cost good managers –: Director Seiel, Gilbert Trattner, Kandlhofer, Hirschmann. And to be mentioned is also Seibersdorf as a collection place for loud such specialists. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Wrong speech!]] But certainly a special Schmankerl is the appointment to the second Executive Board at the International Headquarters and Conference Centre in Vienna. This has been done several times: A chairman of the Supervisory Board proposes himself, deals with himself in his own contract, and also engages in an external advisor of € 32 000. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Wrong speech!]] This is certainly a very special feature of objective, fair and qualified staff selection à la ÖVP/BZÖ. The fact that the Supervisory Board has not even tried to compare the individual candidates under the presentation of the required documents and that there is no legal application by today's Executive Board at all is a real scandal to which the government groups have to answer. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the start of the Federal Government, we have been permanently confronted with such actions, and despite the repeated complaints that the Court of Auditors has revealed, the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government are not taking this seriously and therefore devalue the important and valuable work of the Court of Auditors. This is an incredible underestimation and intentional disregard for the work of the Court of Auditors as a whole. We by the Social Democrats, Mr President, appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors and the whole team. - Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26767	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26788	Madam President. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Kristi, if you're talking about an absolute scandal, I have to say: We find this scandal at the moment only at the BAWAG and in the ÖGB and nowhere else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Again very briefly to the discussion about the person Thomas Rupperti and his appointment. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was the surprising point!]] I have met Mr Rupperti as an expert and a person in two committees. The figures, facts and also various documents speak absolutely for this order. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He has any secret information!]] Mr Rupperti also acted in his answers and in his performance as a highly competent and capable specialist. In my opinion, it is absolutely suitable for the position of the Board of Directors of the conference centre in Vienna, and the business figures prove this very clearly. As early as the first year of his activity, sales could be increased by the new Board of Management. 2005 was one of the most successful years in the history of the house. Mr Rupperti is regarded as a recognised expert in this sector and has both national and international experience. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's useless now!]] His appointment was legally in order, and he came out of the hearing unanimously as the best suitable candidate. It is also particularly important that all the questions raised in this report have been answered in the context of the discussion and expert survey and that numerous suggestions from the Court of Auditors have been received for improvements. The whole environment around national and international conference tourism plays a major role in Austria and especially in Vienna and is an important economic factor. It is crucial that: Conference tourism secures jobs, has a high return on travel, and thus secures important tax revenues for Austria. Therefore, I would like your approval in the sense of this successful conference centre in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26857	The next item is the report by Mr Hoscher. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26879	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr State Secretary! The Court of Auditors' finding that, as it were, Supervisory Board Chairmans themselves are ordering as Board of Directors speaks volumes and makes it clear why Mr Neudeck wants to extend the coat of silence on it. We shall certainly not do this, Mr Deputies, to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] The statements made by the Secretary of State are also quite significant. I think that may have been one of the reasons why you have returned to your State Secretary's office and are no longer in Vienna to carry out your duties as State Party Chairman of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few words by me as a tourist speaker about the importance of the conference centre later on: In the tourism sector, as mentioned above, there is a very large value added. Five times more than normal guests are taken, i.e. 435 € per day. And it is particularly important that leisure researchers assume that there are great opportunities for growth especially in the Congress, conference tourism. This is all the more important for us in this sector, since it is all year-round jobs, that is, something we all strive for together. I can say that Austria is 9th in the international ranking of the country, Vienna even in second place, still in front of Brussels and Just behind Paris. In this light, it is understandable if the Court of Auditors also points out that there must be a necessary coordination between the ACV and the Congress Centre in Hofburg within the framework of the federal government in Vienna. It is therefore all the more surprising that our demand in the Financial Committee has been explained that, for example, there is no event in the ACV within the framework of the Austrian Presidency. Now, in the light of the Court of Auditors' report, this leads me again to ask myself what the Ministry of Finance knows, for example, what we do not yet know if there is not a single event there. The excuse that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for coordination is nevertheless very weak for an owner's representative. The owner's representative should be able to influence a little under the Stocks Act, if not in other areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the Court of Auditors notes in a worthwhile manner that the subsidies granted by the Federal Government for the lease and the operation of the ACV are less than the tax revenue generated by the ACV. This makes the whole thing even more peculiar, and we are very excited how the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer our written questions in this regard. Or is the owner not responsible for that?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26936	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e26957	Madam President. Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Court of Auditors reviewed from November to December 2003 the conduct of the Austrian Conference Centre Vienna, Aktiengesellschaft. The conference centre was discussed in a report on the Court of Auditors in 1991. The former Board of Directors was the former Androsch Secretary Auracher, whose qualifications were very intensively questioned at the time. Special disdain caused the population and experts the poor utilization of the conference centre, the suboptimal board of directors and the enormous losses in the operational outcome of the conference center. On the basis of permanent negative results and other difficulties, the Supervisory Board appointed a second member of the Executive Board in person of Mr Rupperti, who has been responsible for congress operations since 2003. As can easily be seen in a comparison of the CVs of the former Androsch-Secretary of Auracher and the subsequent Board of Directors Rupperti, a real tourism expert was appointed to the Executive Board with the new Executive Board Rupperti, which made the turn around in the first year of its management activity and due to its excellent connections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] Aurach's qualification was that he was secretary to Minister Androsch. The average operating result among Auracher was a loss of €2.2 million annually, that of Rupperti an annual profit of € 128 000. Within just four years, an increase of over €3 million or 150 percent could be achieved. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can perform at the Löwingerbühne!]] Furthermore, in 2005 with over 150 events, a maximum number of events were reached. The major congress events have almost doubled the events since 2000. This is very important in this respect, as this meant a magnitude of 310 000 Congress visitors for 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Löwingerbühne!]] The re-route profitability for Vienna, colleague Cap – this is highly interesting – is € 116 million. You should know the marked difference: Not red figures are crucial, but black figures, especially for taxpayers, because one, namely losses, has to pay the taxpayer, and the other reduces the costs for taxpayers! Both try – no comparison!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27013	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-146 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and therefore this request is accepted. [[23:28:39]] 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-189 d.a.) of the Court of Auditors on the outcome of its collection of average income and the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2003 and 2004 (1353, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27060	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kräube has been reported. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27090	Madam President. Mr President. In the income report, the ÖBB-gagens are particularly unpleasant. And that's where I've got to turn to the BZÖ Torso, because you're the future ex-minister who's responsible for it. I have to tell you that these are astronomical references that would not exist in the private sector, and that is simply intolerable, Mr Neudeck! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] No, I'm not saying that at all. I knew that someone would put me in a trap – but that it is you, Mrs. Colleague! I quote Dr. Haider: Astronomical references to management. There would be no such thing in the private sector, and that is unbearable. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Now choose whether you are for or against Haider! It's unimaginable! There you could be on his side too!]] That's what your BZÖ chief says, and I'm already excited whether the BZÖ speaker, who will come out then, will repeat it. The demand for this is clear. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Yes, Mr. Scheuch, I know that this is unpleasant, but these statements come from your BZÖ chief Jörg Haider, these are original quotations, and you will probably be standing there a minute later when you present these original quotations here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The BAWAG is unpleasant!]] Don't be mad at me! The demand that the SPÖ has linked to these states, i.e. a name, would be good to quote here the President of the Committee. And for what is always set here as a criterion of success, we simply need an insight, because there is something telling the ÖBB, why the Huber Gag has to be €520 000. But in the case of the ÖBB there is much else to clarify even legal matters, and it is a pity that the Secretary of State has now sought wide! I would have liked to have faced him a little bit with the breach of justice, because he has just been here in legal teachings. I would have liked to face him with the breach of justice that happened at the ÖBB, or for example with the fact that the Supervisory Board is a contractor at the same time; or also with the fact that Mr. Vorm Walde is going for a walk with a finish that nobody really knows. You always say, It's private, it doesn't matter how much someone gets! When you say, Rulers, you've been pleading for a long time, then it says: No, it can't happen, it's the taxpayer's liability! So, how would you like it? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to clean up at the ÖBB. Good thing there's such an income report. Reforms are necessary, and we are going to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27161	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27182	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Given today's debate in this House on the BAWAG's internal financial scandal, this Court of Auditors' report on public income is of course losing importance. Today, we have been discussing this scandal, where members have been deceived and damaged for years, where abuses have been covered, but I believe that in the public sector there is no doubt that transparency and, of course, proportionality can be achieved by means of a permanent or two-year-interval examination. Indeed, the opposition has called for greater transparency, disclosure of lists of names, determination of components of success and deviations from the contract template regulation. The fact is that the Constitution clearly states that there is no mention and that there are constitutional limits. This audit of the Court of Auditors contains very few criticisms, and I believe that the comparisons made here are very populist, such as the comparison with the Federal Chancellor's salary. I believe, Mr Christ, that this must also be seen in relation to the private sector. You can also see again at the BAWAG scandal, where it leads when the wrong managers sit in the wrong place. This is the greatest loss and the greatest damage to taxpayers and members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think it is important that there is transparency outside. It makes no sense, however, when good employees migrate to the private sector, but it makes sense if we manage to gain good employees with the highest level of responsibility and with a reasonable and good payment for this service. It has only been noted that there are actually very high-paid managers in the field of cultural management in the city of Vienna, in the area of the theatre at the Vienna, the Festival Weekend, the United Stages Vienna. There is no disclosure of salaries here, while there are very likely disclosures in the area of the National Library, the Technical Museum or the Austrian galleries. What was still very disturbing to me was that the colleague of herbs here is always talking about “heading money” and “heading premiums”. I think this is an insult to the many skilled and diligent employees in public enterprises. Colleagues, we wish only one thing: that as fast as possible Your BAWAG scandal will also be dealt with in the Court of Auditors and we will discuss it very openly and transparently here too. Then I'll be You find yourself in need of more than enough action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27231	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27252	Madam President. The Secretary of State has now disappeared, but a replica of what he has said is also in line with this item on the agenda. He produces himself on the government bench in front of the microphone and loses a communiqué that describes this whole absurd process of the appointment of Mr. Rupperti, who has escaped from the Supervisory Board chair – at this stage probably the suffrage has come to him – and has landed well on the board chair. The fact that this is still justified by the Secretary of State here with a Wischi-Waschi statement is a shame to this House. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Wurst, but the system grasser needs to be covered – good luck to continue too! On this item on the agenda: We need to keep a few things apart. Here lies the report according to § 121 para. 4 B-VG before. As a result, it pushes you to raise the question once again and again, which is, in fact, with that report, which should also insist on a decision of the House – probably a constitutional provision! – i.e. the disclosure of income and the cumulative incomes of the officials and managers of the close-to-state enterprises, namely, by name. That is not the case, therefore, because this is a relatively tricky matter and the Constitutional Court has interpreted the whole in a certain way. But I'll tell you one thing: It is, of course, the matter of this House here to decide on constitutional provisions in such a way – at least to nominate, in the next instance – that what is supposed to be majority Their goal was to be achieved, too. It must be asked once the ÖVP: Is it still a goal – at the time you voted in favour – that the salaries of the managers of the close-to-state companies are laid open or not? It's up to us. We shall make a corresponding request, and then it will be nothing more than that anyone will again define what is inside or outside of the draft. This is because the last interpreter, the very last interpreter, has to be Parliament itself. If the Constitutional Court makes us aware of a few things, then that is good. But, in fact, he also says what else we need to formulate, so that we can help our will, the will of the National Council, to break through here. We will invite you to do so, and then we will see where the Constitutional Arch is again in the spectrum. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On this agenda, too, the question cannot be completely unscathed by the fact that we have managers here who do quite excellent work in the safety field. This becomes clear when we look at the report; it is very thick. There's a very renowned security company in the public service, and now I'm asking you: What are all these salaries worth for these security officers if the Eurofighters were not purchased? – And because that is where it is important, this Parliament should make sure that everything has been done with right and fair intentions in the work of the treaty. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We offer you our support here. Open the contracts to the house! It can only be helpful to everyone, because, in Switzerland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Albania, Romania and probably also in the parliament of an Arab state that buys the Eurofighters – even there, there is something similar to a parliament – the EADS Group will be ready to disclose the contracts – only not here. Why? – Because, obviously, the negotiations with the Eurofighter GmbH in June 2003 have been so, led by our ministers or at least some alternates, that it has been pointed out: You know what? Tell you to keep this whole thing secret! Let us take up such a contractual passage, and then we will be “out of the tailor” because then we will put the opposition delegates in the barriers with this overwhelming argument. Alone, the argument is not so overwhelming, because one cannot be, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer: That private-law contracts – and it is nothing but a private-law contract – should also be able to resolve the basic rules of the interplay between Parliament and government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is not possible, and we are not alone with this opinion. Countless constitutional judges share this opinion. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We're due in dawn. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But it will not depend on the opinion of the Constitutional Judge Heinz Mayer, the Constitutional Judge Öhlinger and others whether the green club has a higher capacity density than another club. By the way, it doesn't look so bad, because I've already seen you over there quite different about the presence. It can't depend on that. But I take note that it was an ironic call; it was successful. I'll get back to something more serious. This whole thing is not a pot. And if you want to move the whole thing into the pot kneading department, especially the President of Parliament Khol, then you don't do a good job for parliamentarianism. Parliament is not here to carry out any pot interpretations here and to make them happen. There needs to be a discussion of the opinions of the most renowned constitutional judges in the country. No one can do that. and not even the black and blue majority for themselves!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27348	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27370	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary – he is no longer here. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You weren't in the committee at all!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - What was that now? What did you say? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You weren't in the committees at all!]] - Oh, yeah! I was in all the committees, certainly, even at several meetings, colleagues. [[Call the SPÖ:Now he's caught him at the wrong foot!]] On both! There has been a greater discussion on whether to publish it with or without a name. And if you look at Nordic countries, where everyone publishes their incomes by name, it becomes clear that this is a demand that you can also raise, but there is also a need for a certain culture. I also drew an example there when someone like the Director-General Treichl, who then stated his income in 2004, is being dragged through the newspapers for months, it is certainly a safeguard function that you say Austria is apparently not yet mature that all salaries are out. – Where, of course, a different scale is to be adopted in the near-state or public spheres; Mr Kogler, there I am with you. At the time, I followed the discussion and I thought – the SPÖ has also brought it in very much with regard to the amount of salaries –: The salaries are not bad! You have to see if the performance is so good. – But I was then instructed about the ARBÖ and also at the BAWAG of a better one, because I know that there is no stencil regulation. But try it once! There you will need five such stencils that this will fit for one salary, and then you don't have the privileges inside yet. There you should leave the church in the village. But I am with you, and I believe that these reports should be fulfilled with a little more life, not from the testing body, but from the legislator. But, as has been said, a majority is needed. And let a coalition burst because of that, it's not worth it. I'm telling you, not that you're going to make a request and say I'm not going with you now. But since the SPÖ Members have so beautifully mixed these three agenda items and each has spoken to everyone, I can still read a guest comment from Norbert Readers to the discussion this afternoon. He writes: Permanent crisis of the SPÖ. – All the cases of the “consumer”, the ARBÖ and related organisations already listed are symptoms of a permanent crisis of the SPÖ. Further behind is the financial scandal of the Upper Austrian SPÖ, where Rupert Hartl was brought to the top and he had to capitulate before the ruling Clique and moved back to private life already in 1982, 24 years ago. In 1986 he published a book, “Austria – the difficult path to socialism”, in which he showed and demonstrated the privileges of the ruling functional class in the party, union and chambers, which violate the socialist principles of equality and sparingness, without any change in the critical conditions of this criticism by a foreign body within the party, which had not grown up in the dark circle of the functional apparatus. - Quote. Readers then also quote Kreisky, who failed at this front, and then quote also racer, and finally he writes: After the collapse of the “consumer”, the union is now already not a dead, yet paralysed arm and branch. How long can the third arm and branch, namely the SPÖ as a party, remain even more intimate? It does not seem exaggerated to compare the internal consequences that the BAWAG scandal can produce with the collapse of the Credit Institution in 1931. And last but not least, says Norbert Readers, one more question: In view of these processes, where does the alleged moral authority of the Federal President remain? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27430	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27451	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck, probably because some are so opposed to the publication, it is not possible to suspect that something is being concealed. And that is why we are calling for the names of income providers to be published. I am incomprehensible that the press may publish it, but not the control body of Parliament. If you want an honest and transparent income report and don't want to hide anything, you will also have to publish the success components. In order to prevent suspicious moments, as in the case of the ÖBB or the ÖIAG, we also need to understand whether the relevant reference legal bases have also been respected. We also see it as problematic, and we will still have to think about it, that the Court of Auditors can only obtain information on income and examine it for plausibility, but cannot examine it itself. I would like to present the problem in a concrete example, namely the centralist procurement society of the federal government. This procurement company has two board members and 33 employees. It is not a private-sector competition company. The managers do not have any risks and actually only have a distributed administrative unit making public invitations to tender. This corresponds to a slightly larger department of the Ministry of Finance. This society is nothing but a monopolist, which, through the disadvantage of small and smallest regional companies and their employees, causes damage to the economies by artificial bundles of many small orders to a few large orders. The two Boards are listed in this income report, each with €207 000 for 2003 and 2004. Given the small size of society and the low responsibility of managers, I think, this amount is probably remarkable. These figures in the income report also include a 75 % premium, which is mainly based on the acquired volume. The problem is that a system of such nonsense and overpricedness cannot be identified from the figures of the income report. That's why I can invite you to our verbes- President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27500	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27521	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I also spoke about the Court of Auditors' income report two years ago, and I said that we should consider reforming this income report, because the income surveys were simply boycotted by many board members and state companies. Mr Kaipel, the Constitutional Court has told us that no one can be forced to disclose his salaries. But you're right: Many people outside would certainly be very interested in the incomes of the board of directors and supervisory boards, both of BAWAG and of the ÖGB! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] The new income report does not disclose the salaries of individuals but the average salaries in the individual sectors and groups of companies. Although we stick to data protection, we still know how much the board of directors and supervisory councils cost taxpayers, and this is exactly what this cost is all about, ladies and gentlemen! It is also gratifying that the number of disbursements is increasing and that pension funds are taking place. The income levels themselves, of course, need to be looked at in detail. Not everything can be compared. This is a fact that all of us should be aware or aware. We have received a very, very good paper from the Court of Auditors, for which I would like to thank both the President of the Court of Auditors and his officials very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27564	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27586	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Six years of black and blue orange and new governments not only mean record unemployment and social reduction, but are also characterized by recoloration and privilege economy, especially in the field of public and public enterprises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] The full extent of this mentality is becoming increasingly clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] There can be no mention of more private and less state! The number of close-to-state enterprises has increased, the number of employees employed there has decreased by 8 percent, and the number of management posts has increased by 12 percent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You probably wrote this speech a week ago!]] The best example of the so-called economy and cost reduction is the ÖBB. We've heard it today. You can certainly remember what was promised before the ÖBB reform: Savings and slimmer structures. However, we had seven board members before the ÖBB reform, today there are eleven. There were eleven procurists, today there are 21. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ÖBB, Reithofer, has even announced in an APA issue that the two Boards of ÖBB Holding, Huber and Söllinger, receive €625,000 in fixed remuneration plus a success premium of 50 percent, and I ask you: Will this success premium be striking if, as requested by the Minister of Transport, 12,000 railers are on the road? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They will not sit in the street!]] It speaks volumes when ÖBB managers have received salary increases of 53 percent within just one year, and this is evident in this report, namely between 2003 and 2004, and more than 1,600 employees are reduced over the same period! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27647	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27669	Madam President. High house! Article 121, par. 4 B-VG transmits to the Court of Auditors a report on the average annual income and additional pension benefits of members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board each second year on undertakings and bodies subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. The subject matter would be the scope of the contract, because companies always fall out of the review order if the shares of the local authorities change. The Court of Auditors' efforts to anonymise the reports as far as possible in order not to disclose or recalculate specific incomes of a single person. However, it would be to be considered, since the Court of Auditors does not review it, but, as he himself says, only collects the information given to it by the undertakings, where there is only a plausibility check, whether this is necessarily a task of the Court of Auditors or not, perhaps, a task of Statistics Austria, which simply collects the information. As regards the reference level, it should also be noted that undertakings subject to the control of the Court of Auditors must also exist on the market and have the right to receive the best managers. In addition, we know that more and more performance-related parts of income are being agreed, so that in this Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ruth Bechersagen can say that these performance-related parts are not measured by the reduction of employees but, for example, at stock prices, at the EGT et cetera. So don't put false rumors in the world here! Finally, I would like to say: This report should not be used as a vehicle of envy, although it can sometimes be quite good if the public, for example, learns that a former BAWAG general director for the lotteries has 300 000 € per year for minor secondary employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27712	Next, Mr Reheis. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27751	Mr. Regler, the last thing you said applies to all managers and managing directors. Disclosure is essential and urgent so that such things as they are no longer in secret can flourish! The impression I always have at the meetings of the Court of Auditors is as follows: Cover it, close it, no transparency! Because Mr Gahr spoke of transparency today, I must say: I have not yet seen them in the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] There is no transparency there! Whenever an investigation or control is requested, the ceiling will be covered with your majority, and you must not examine it. The same applies to salaries: Mr Neudeck said today that it can't be useful to put the salaries out. . We need nothing more to say, ladies and gentlemen! In the newspapers, you can read names and incomes – but whether that is true or not, that is put on the table. However, this can only be claimed if the relevant investigations are not made by the Court of Auditors. I therefore really demand that you think about how the disclosure of salaries and income lists can actually be carried out by the Court of Auditors – for so there is certainly no transparency, even with regard to salaries. For example, Mr Neudeck also said that the ÖBB are no longer a society but have been divided, and it is clear that there are several managers. – Yes, Mr Neudeck, you had to divide and fill the ÖBB so that you could accommodate your people! [[Abg. Lentsch: Neudeck doesn't have people!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: My people are all very busy!]] This is the true background of this division and filleting at the Bundesbahnen! There are now more managers than ever before and fewer and fewer staff, and that is what you have to answer! And at all, that's all you've claimed today, and are the attacks you constantly ride more in terms of the BAWAG and the like, in turn, only part of the ceiling that will help you get over your shortcomings! That's just to say. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Under your government, unemployment has risen by 25 percent. We have the highest unemployment since 1945! Youth unemployment has increased by 50 percent! They have the last place to take responsibility for public investment among all EU countries. They are responsible for the fact that pensioners have experienced real income losses through pension increases which remain significantly below the inflation rate. This is your true responsibility and a scandal! You are also responsible for the fact that there is significantly weaker growth here in Austria than in the EU average. And in the end you also have, because here you always formulate the deficit to account for the highest debt of all time! That's your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27814	Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. It also applies to: 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27837	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! We are dealing here with incomes and benefits for pensions in the state economy of the federal government. At an institution in our country, namely at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, I think it is very clear that a director deserves € 246 400 a year. If you measure this director – falsely – with the criteria that Mr Regler has previously set, that you really should only take the best managers and that it is important that there are also performance-related income components, then I now understand how you see the system: This director certainly did not pay for the birthday feast for the Secretary of State, but for the taxpayers' money. We are still waiting for a second business manager today. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You always want to save!]] Meeting in this area They do not take any measures to ensure that the art-historical treasures of our country are not feudally managed at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, but that they are made available to the Austrians and tourists. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Elsner would be responsible for “feudal rule” and now he would have more time!]] The fact is that this Director introduced statues from Egypt and then landed two of four statues in his possession. In addition, this director made his old private car cheaper to the museum or left it back again. – I think: There are consequences here. There is no performance given here, but you can only see that on the side of the ÖVP there are the off-socket methods and the feudal princes season!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27885	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e27916	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Since 2000, there has been an increasing number of senior executives or managing directors in close-to-state companies who enjoy state income and the full protection of the Federal Government, but at the same time it is not apparent to citizens how these top-rankers contribute to improving the quality of public services. As an example, I recall the astronomical salaries and discharges of leading ÖBB managers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That’s “ÖGB”, not “ÖBB”!]] However, the new structure of the ÖBB has not improved the network or the quality of transport for the passengers of the ÖBB. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you think “ÖGB” or “ÖBB”? Maybe you've written the wrong thing down?]] Unfortunately, the present Court of Auditors report gives no reason to hope for better economies in the income of managers of public institutions. A departure from the so-called stencil regulation has also been observed lately. This means that service contracts are no longer concluded according to the legal basis, but according to your own discretion. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and will not take note of this! We regret from the SPÖ that it is not possible in the report to publish also the names of the referees of over-income income, which you can even read in the newspapers anyway. Specific cases must be transparent and comprehensible, so that citizens also know exactly what happens to their taxpayers. [[Abg. Scheibner: We would have liked to know this at the ÖGB too!]] The Court of Auditors notes that the ownership structure has changed by some of the institutions under review and that these bodies are no longer subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: ÖGB instead of ÖBB, that's the slogan!]] That's how you get away from public control! In practice, this looks like: The formally distributed companies are re-occupied or equipped with close-to-the-counter managers, who deposit horning salaries and do not even have to answer for them publicly. Here it becomes clear once again that the rate of this government, as far as possible and as quickly as possible, has not contributed to any more economy in the public budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28006	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28027	Madam President. High house! I know that time has gone a long way, but since there have been some contributions in the course of the debate, I believe it is important that we take a short look at it, in particular the statements made by Mr Kaipel, who asked the Court of Auditors to disclose the references in particular. I would like to point out: The Court of Auditors is obliged to submit a total of three income reports. One of these is the report according to § 8 para. 1 to 3 of the Relevant Restriction Act, in which the publication of the names of persons receiving the remuneration of public entities should take place. Despite the fact that this provision is a constitutional provision, a report in this respect has not yet been adopted. It could not take place because the Constitutional Court held that there is no need for public funds to be disclosed properly or before the objective of keeping public checkouts within the framework. That is why we have not been able to do so. In this case, it has become what Article 121 paragraph. 4 B-VG, even the question of whether we can in any case repay this report, as it is now present, in this form. We have clarified this, and the data protection considerations are – I therefore do not have to do so – included in this report. I would therefore ask you to read these statements too! In any event, it is clear that, in view of the current constitutional situation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, we cannot make further disclosure of the references. So it will be with you, ladies and gentlemen – a discussion that has already been held in the Convention – that, in the course of the future constitutional reform, a solution will always be sought which will come to your attention! In addition, according to the constitutional situation, we collect information and examine it for plausibility, which is the In this area too, we do not have the means to examine on the ground materially in this respect. Finally, with a view to strengthening control rights, I would like to point out that, as discussed in the Convention, it would be appropriate for the Court of Auditors to be given the opportunity to carry out a review of companies with a 25 percent public participation, so that, if there is a corresponding constitutional change, the relevant performance data or income data are also available. In addition, we could also ensure that a flight from control is avoided and that control is strengthened as such. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Finally, I would like to thank you once again for mentioning the Court of Auditors' performance positively during today's three debates. I would also like to pass this on to the employees, because this certainly contributes to their motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28079	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Mr Amon is not here yet!]] Mr Jarolim! We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-189 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so this request is accepted. [[00:00:10:19]] 27. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna (094 Hv 7/06x) for approval of the administrative persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer (1346 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28123	==References== Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one's spoken. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1346 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In the examination of the request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of the deputies to the National Council Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer will be referred to in Article 57 paragraph. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the parliament's political activity as National Councillor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer. Therefore, an official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer is not approved.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. [[00:11:44]] 28. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dietmar Hoscher, colleagues in a federal law amending the Income Tax Act (801/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28187	We arrive at the 28th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28214	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get a little reminiscence to the 58. Meeting of the National Council during this legislative period! At first reading, we discussed a request concerning a federal law to amend the Income Tax Act. The aim of the requested innovation was to increase the rate of decommissioning in the hospitality sector and in the accommodation to 4 percent. The representatives of the government groups then signaled unisono willingness to talk. I'm allowed to quote a little. The tourist speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Schweisgut, said at that time literally: “I see it this way...: We should now start a wide-ranging discussion." “We are certainly ready for discussions.” The demand for a reduction in depreciation was just as literal as “a logical claim. ” Colleague Bucher: The reduction in user life is a point – I quote – “that we will discuss in the Committee”. In terms of content, he referred to the proposal – I quote again – as “very reasonable proposal”. As I said, that was in 58. Meeting of the National Council. Meanwhile, we write the 142. The meeting of the National Council, and the willingness to discuss ÖVP and FPÖ/BZÖ have once again left nothing left, which sheds a significant light both on your concept of democracy and on your awareness of the leisure and tourism industry. In the meantime, the needs of this sector, the probably most important branch of the domestic economy, have not changed. Only a week ago I was back in Tyrol and Vorarlberg and spoke there with hostess and hoteliers. I was once again assured by both sides that a reduction in the amortisation period would still be necessary. We all know, for example, Mr Bucher, that the need for renewal in this sector is much higher than in other sectors, that, for example, hotel rooms have to be completely renewed after a long time, I say once, 15 to a maximum of 20 years. Therefore, well-known financial scientists also confirm to us that the measure we propose would undoubtedly be unconstitutional. If the argument now comes – probably from the ÖVP – that the industry has already been sufficiently provided for in the course of the tax reform, I can again refer to my numerous discussions with industry representatives and economic operators from Lake Constance to Lake Neusied, which also unisono confirm that both the corporate tax reduction and the half-timbered tax reduction. the tax on profits not collected in the tourism and leisure industries has not relieved the majority of businesses. Therefore, in the interests of local tourism, we should speed up the current proposal for a decision and not wait again for 84 meetings of this GP.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28268	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Desirable time: 2 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 1 minute!]] 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28305	Madam President. High house! Mr Hoscher's request undoubtedly has a certain right in substance, which is not a question at all. But, Mr Hoscher, we do not make a tax reform according to the motto Fleckerlteppich – always a little bit around – but there will again be a big throw in the next 2008 period, just as the tax reform 2004/05 was a big throw. This is not just about tourism, my colleague. You make it easy, you play the lobbyists of tourism here. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: I am a tourist speaker! That's my job!]] There are other economic areas where it is equally important, Mr Hoscher. We will also discuss whether a degressive AF is better than the linear AF. So let's leave the flickering tape! We are making a big reform, it will be a big throw.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28346	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Requested time: also 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28367	Madam President. High house! Mr Hoscher, the demands are justified. We know that the depreciation periods have long since ceased to be in line with reality and that there are mixed forms of usage. Our approach in this direction is that we want to align depreciation periods over the duration of financing of bank loans et cetera. This is something quite new, and I am therefore very excited about our discussions in the Committee. But you should also know that it is possible to achieve shorter depreciation deadlines today by simply presenting an opinion to the Financial Office. Then the insight is given to write this down also in a shorter period of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28397	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28419	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Just as briefly as the colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ or BZÖ have dealt with this point here, they deal with the issue of tourism at all. May I just mention a few figures on the location of tourism companies in Austria: Only from the size of € 1 million annual turnover will the profit zone be reached. We have a total of 40 000 tourist establishments, of which 26 000 have holdings under € 150 000 annual turnover. In other words, we have more than half of the enterprises in the field of absolute micro- and small-scale enterprises, family businesses that, to a large extent, never enter the profit zone. 55 percent of companies are over-indebted. – These are not data from the sleeves, these are data from the press department of the Chamber of Commerce. That is to say, we are talking here about an industry that is probably no longer able to wait until 2008 – as Mr Colleague stupidly explained here – because many of them will not exist until then. That is why I really must agree with Mr Hoscher's project that there is a need to discuss the situation of tourism companies urgently. However, I do not believe that the income tax amendment measure or the four-percent quota for these tourism companies really brings a meaningful solution. We will need to tailor other models here, including other models. We have also tried to introduce changes in the field of SME support. However, we have also failed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, just like Mr Hoscher. Our request for support for tourism companies with a turnover of less than €150 000 has also been postponed. I don't know how much time you want to spend. I don't think tourism has so much time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28458	The next item is the speech by Mr Ferdinand Maier. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28482	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about tourism in itself, I can only stress it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] In particular, I agree with what Dr. Stumpfully said. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a one-serious speech!]] As I am obviously or probably the last speaker, I would like to make a summary. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The last one pays a round!]] It was very impressive to me that yesterday's debate – less today – was actually under the BAWAG aspect and vehement attacks against the SPÖ, against which trade unionists were directed by SPÖ. What happened to me is that Mr Gusenbauer was rarely here and that when he was here, he spoke nothing. [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the matter!]] In itself – I am not a lawyer – they say yes: If someone's silent, he agrees. To this end, I would like to say in summary: At least cast farmer has recognized that the attacks and allegations are justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28563	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 801/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:20:43]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28598	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 717/A (E) by Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on national measures to protect against genetically modified organisms, a period of up to 25 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. [[00:21:25]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-03-29-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00142_d7e28629	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 807/A to 815/A have been tabled. Questions 4078/J to 4100/J were also raised. Finally, questions from Members of Parliament have been brought to the President of the National Council by Mr Oellinger and Dr Kräub. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 0.22 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
