ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2496	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you and open the meeting. The official protocols of the 4th and 5ths. Meeting of 29. In November 2006, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Plassnik, Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Aspock and Ing are reported as prevented. Hofer. [[10:02:07]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2530	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “More jobs, more growth, more innovation – Austria’s economy at a success rate” The first speaker to speak was Mr Mag. Molterer. His speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2557	Greetings, Madam President! Good morning, Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you let the Austrian newspapers of the last days pass revision, you will read headlines like this relatively often: “A small economic miracle” – is meant: in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are daily newspapers that include Austria with regard to titles: Economic growth – The economy is booming. Or: Increase in employment – 50,000 people find work in Austria. And we can be proud, ladies and gentlemen, that in this situation in Austria we can look exactly in this situation – the current and the current hour today – at an economic development that makes us confident and makes us sure that with optimism we can look into a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have an economic growth estimated at about 3.2 percent, according to OECD. The Austrian National Bank even speaks of an economic growth of 3.3 percent, and we will be presented in the next few days and weeks a revision of the forecast of the Institute for Higher Studies and the Economic Research Institute, which will also review the growth rates upward. Growth in the economy is the prerequisite for full employment, and growth policy is therefore a central concern of the Austrian People's Party's Policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian economy is growing faster than the eurozone economy. The Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen, is growing faster – and the One has to be broken on the tongue – as the economy in Japan. And what's interesting is: Since the second quarter Austria, the Austrian economy has even overtaken the United States with its growth rates. The Austrian economy is growing faster than that of the United States! But that is not a question for individual companies, but it is essential for all of us. What can be particularly confident of us, ladies and gentlemen, is that, for example, in the purchasing power parity, in the gross domestic product per capita, we have broken a real sound wall, something that few of us have agreed to in Austria. This year, with a gross domestic product of 34 000 € per capita, we have overtaken so rich Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, Austria is ahead of Switzerland in terms of economic growth and GDP per capita, and we expect to have a very stable growth trend and a sustainable growth path in the coming years. The Chief Economist of the Austrian Music Bank, Mooslechner, notes that there has been no such good situation for 25 years for the growth perspective of the Austrian economy as it is currently the case. This growth perspective, ladies and gentlemen, enables us to define very offensive targets even in the field of labour market. This is the stated objective of our efforts to work together to ensure that there is full employment in Austria by the year 2010. Full employment is the goal of our policy, especially for young people, so that we can also address the problem of youth unemployment accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The figures indicate: We're on a good way. The unemployment rate is falling. About November, we have a drop in the unemployment rate in absolute numbers of almost 10 percent – 10 percent less unemployed! – and in the same period, in November, we have over 65 000 more people who have work. That means: The direction of full employment is right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this way, we will ultimately intensify our political efforts so that this objective will actually become reality. As has already been said: Youth employment is particularly important. For example, in the long-term unemployed, we have achieved a significant reduction of almost 28 percent. This positive starting point is of particular importance. This is also seen from the outside, ladies and gentlemen. We have had a visit to the International Monetary Fund last week in Parliament, unfortunately little attention from the public, and the representatives of the International Monetary Fund have given a truly good witness to Austrian economic development since 2000 and to the development of the budget since 2000. For example, the International Monetary Fund says that the main factors for Austrian economic success – and they are black on white – are, for example, a stable financial policy, successful structural reforms and, most importantly, offensive integration into the growth strategy in the new markets in Central and Eastern Europe. On this path, ladies and gentlemen, we must stay on this path of growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The EU Commission has also assessed our national reform programme and, for example, has even formulated in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises that the Austrian SME package of this Federal Government – I quote literally – “is a model and source of the inspira- sion’ for the European Union. This path is worth it, ladies and gentlemen, for SMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises in this country and for workers working there. The crucial question for the future is therefore that we can build on this solid foundation, which this Federal Government has created in recent years, and continue this path of success indefinitely. For this, ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, there are, of course, some essential points and elements from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party. We believe, of course, that a balanced budget, stable state finances, must remain undisputed in the future. Why? – Because only stable state finances actually meet our goal of generation justice: Debts are the most unfair of the young generation, and a balanced budget is important for the growth perspective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Secondly, we need investments in the future, such as infrastructure, research and development, education, but also in the energy sector, in the sense of sustainable energy policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, and this is essential for growth, we need a further step towards remission in order to reduce the tax and tax rate. – Of course also with a social dimension, but above all with the background to strengthening and not weakening the growth perspective. Every false signal would not attract businesses but drive them away – and thus endanger jobs and not create jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a focus in the field of state and administrative reform, because, as a state, we also need to make a positive contribution to motivate people by the red tape of centralism. We must not only strive for the goal of full employment, but I am convinced that we can achieve it, for example, with what we have already disputed here in Parliament, the teaching of the labour market service, but also with the necessary reforms, for example with regard to the rules on the availability of workers, so that we can increase the mobility of workers and create incentives to work, ladies and gentlemen – incentives to work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I am glad that it is clear that a jobless basic income cannot be an objective, but a minimum wage by work is our objective – an objective that is rounded off by employee participation in the sense of a modern employee policy, because one is clear: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] We need growth to achieve full employment!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2746	Mr Bartenstein spoke on a preliminary opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2768	Madam President. High house! To follow up on Mr Molterer's comments: We have this growth to achieve full employment by 2010. And what the economists are predicting us today – no matter if the Austrian National Bank, the leading economic research institutes of Austria, Wifo, IHS, or the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission – is doing well in terms of growth for the next few years. Klubobmann Molterer has already pointed out: I have not experienced such a headline in the many years of my political activity: “A little economic wonder”! More than 3 percent growth, many new jobs, business start-ups, gross domestic product per capita higher than that of Switzerland! – It was not anyone who confirmed this to us, but, Mr. Westenthaler, that was the International Monetary Fund who said that Austria is not only in front of Germany – we have been used to such reports for years – but also in front of Switzerland for the first time. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] But this, ladies and gentlemen, not because the whole of Europe is booming, but Austria is experiencing it in the midst of a more moderate European economic environment – and in the future, Austria will grow faster than Europe, faster than Japan; Klubobmann Molterer has already said. Hardly anyone can remember that this has once been the case: Austria is growing faster today than the USA and is likely to grow faster than the US in the next two or three years. – So a success story that we can be proud of, a success story that ultimately provides us with a good foundation for an even better work for the future! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Growth, however, is not a self-evident. Growth only makes sense if it brings prosperity, especially when it brings jobs. Some here in this House – tending to be more on the left than on the right side of the plenary – have been criticising it in recent months when I have been talking since April about the trend change in the labour market. Now there are also very large-scale newspapers talking about a trend change in the labour market, that there are finally more jobs again. So what insiders like me have seen and knew since April is now widespread. Klubobmann Molterer mentioned the impressive figures: If you build up 65 000 jobs per year with a little over 3 million jobs – about 3.3 million – in Austria, this is impressive! Did you know that this is the highest job gain since 1991, so for 15 years? – This is truly impressive and encouraging and shows that we have done the best out of a good economy with a good economic and labour and financial policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Economic success and being better than the environment – better than the European Union, better than our competitors – has something to do with it: How are we set up in terms of competitiveness? – I am not one who believes that rankings always have to be absolutely right, but if the renowned World Economic Forum in Davos – that is, the experts in this world – in these days say that Austria has improved by two places in its annual relationship and that we are among the top European nations in terms of competition performance, then it is the performance of Austria that then expresses itself in growth and more jobs, ladies and gentlemen. It is quite gratifying that no longer only exports are booming – gratifyingly enough that we have become an export nation par excellence; we are going to pass 100 billion € on goods exports this year; another real sound wall to be penetrated here – but also domestic consumption, private consumption, investments are going well. And we will be well advised to take appropriate measures to ensure that these trends are maintained in the next two, three, four years, ladies and gentlemen. That's the future. – It’s always good to start from a pleasant situation, but: What are we doing to secure the future? I have never been in a political round, where it would not have been said that investment in research and development is right. It is also completely undisputed – and we have repeatedly known – that our R&D target should be 3 percent in the medium term by the year 2010: 3 per cent of the total assets we generate per year in Austria will be spent on research and development. The former Minister of Science One knows, there were times, there we were somewhere at 1.5 percent in Austria and on the European scale more in the lower middle. Today we are 2.43 percent, and we want to realize 3 percent. But now and in these hours – it's not even a day ago – the coalition negotiators of SPÖ and ÖVP have set the course, of course, together with Grasser, because without the Minister of Finance, there's no such thing – that's also to be done financially. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Plus € 800 million in federal funds in addition to the budget, in addition to offensive funds, in addition to what comes from the National Foundation, € 800 million on it! And the experts confirm to us that we will reach the 3 percent in 2010, on the basis of: two thirds pays the private sector, one third the public hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – Future security par excellence! A second one: Ladies and gentlemen, it's true: Some people in this country say: The economy is running great, the profits of many – not all, but many – companies reach new peaks, many and most Austrians are going very well, but we have to look down on the individual in the next few years closely at the fact that this generally very positive economic development is also noticeable for the individual, as far as possible. We know today that this cannot be achieved by 100% through wage policy – as well as by the social partners in Austria. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we have agreed for the next few years on it – Social Democracy and People's Party; and, at the heart of our initiative, it was almost our initiative – to increase employee participation, to double employee participation in this country. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It didn't come from you! You know, you're not that much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about employee participation not only in the sense of a perhaps not always desirable and possible concrete capital participation in the company, but also on the basis of stronger fiscal advantage in the profit of the company – in addition to what is available in wage income, a reasonable profit participation tax support. We want to increase this significantly – double – by 2010 so that Austrian workers can participate more strongly than before in the obvious success of the companies. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At such a stage, however, it is also necessary to dock and say at the other end of the scale of success: Is it fair and fair that there are collective agreements in Austria that still do not reach a minimum wage of € 1,000 per month? – Together we say: No, it's not! Now I know that there are those – Mrs Bures and others – who believe or were in the opinion that a minimum legal wage would be the right thing. There is also a discussion in Germany, which is marked by shared efficiency and not precisely by consensus of opinion. I am pleased that we have agreed here that, on the basis of a social partners' position, we continue to reject a legal definition of minimum wages – who of us wants to discuss minimum wages once a year?This is not good, it does not fit into the plenary session of a National Council – but the social partners are invited to enter into a general collective agreement for the introduction of a minimum wage of € 1 000 currently. That makes sense and important so that something is inside for the little earners too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is very important that what has been going on in the last few days in economic, location-political, labour market policy can be further decided on, to a large extent, based on a consensus between the social partners, and I am not saying: The social partners' paper, which was presented to the government negotiators about a week ago on the basis of the Wifo White Paper, contains much of what is good, right and important, and we, the negotiators – chiefs, Voves, Grasser and I – have tried to integrate as much of it as possible, and we were able to say goodbye yesterday. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about labour market policy, of course, but also about taking steps to improve the social security of people in that country, where social security is not optimal, that is to say, the responsibility for intergenerative justice, as Molterer said. I am pleased to see another proposal from the social partners, which we have taken on in some way and very much, namely the significantly improved social protection of free workers, some twenty thousand people in this country, who in the future are supposed to be as secure as classical servants – a proposal by the social partners that the government negotiators have gladly adopted. In our country, it is not only about employees and workers who need social security, but there are also some self-employed people who need it. And so it is important that we have also agreed not only to introduce an unemployment insurance scheme for self-employed people – of course, on the basis of fair contributions as well as for workers – but also in the sense of better security for all those who already benefit more than two million workers in that country – a great concept that has been developed by the ÖVP and the ÖAAB at that time – to also make it possible as self-employed provision. If today the High House takes a big further step in terms of minimum pensions with this truly striking increase in the AZ-directional rate, i.e. the minimum board, at then € 726, this rounds off this picture: We ensure that the economy is running or "brumbled", as the press writes. We ensure that growth reaches excellent levels, we ensure that the labour market is booming, and in this context we also ensure that the prosperity that arises is implemented in such a way that people in this country also have something of it – including those who are among the weaker people in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2867	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in accordance with Article 97a of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2901	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== October passed, and voters and voters – who can't be wrong in principle – have decided completely correctly. It's time... [[Call the gallery.]] It's time for a change of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2928	Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, I urge you to take your seat! Otherwise, you have to leave the gallery. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But the young people are right to demand that education not be hindered!]] The sitting was suspended for a short time. [[The sitting was suspended at 10.25 a.m.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Matznetter, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e2970	We come to the decision made by the Austrian population on 1 January. He met on October. She wanted a course change, and today we're talking about a core part of this course change. We now have a decade since 2000 behind us, determined by a common policy of the divorcing federal government. We have taken over a heavy heritage and I would like to explain to you this difficult heritage. [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Genau”: Growth,...!]] Part 1: While the currency reserves still amounted to €20 billion in 2000, it is now only 10 billion, Mrs Fekter! 105 tons of gold – a quarter of gold reserves – sold! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because you can't, that's what you're doing...!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Did you not hear Mr. Liebscher?]] And what happened to this money? – More than €7 billion have flown to cover the budget holes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's how it looks!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Go!]] At the same time, debt rose to over €160 billion! At the same time, another €20 billion has been hidden extra-budgetally in the area of rail and road. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: “Hided”?! – It was already at the SPÖ!]] The fact is: We are in the situation that we need to take urgent measures for the future and that the funds you hand over are empty. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] Mrs Colleague, a country with over 3% growth this year should have long-term financial reserves in the public budget to invest in education, in science, in the fight against unemployment, in the country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Wifo-chef Aiger said yesterday clearly what is necessary: Invest! And in this sense the title of today's current hour of the ÖVP is right: We need more jobs, more growth and more innovation! Why do we need that? – Since 2000, we have been below or below the average of the European Union every year in growth. Only since 2005, in the last months, have we reached the average. – Yes, we are now looking forward to this 3.2 or 3.1 percent growth, but let us be aware of this: This is very close to the average of the Union, which is 2.8 percent. And let us also be aware that if we make up the average of the decade, we will continue to have only a growth below the average! And even this year, among other EU countries, the following countries are better than Austria: Greece, Spain, Ireland, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Finland, Sweden. We want to be ahead, ladies and gentlemen. And in this sense: Let's work together. Together with us, make a program exactly in the sense of your current hour: more jobs, more growth, more innovation! [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: We have her!]] It is very easy for you, Mr Bartenstein, to find out when I heard you before, how pleased you were that at last the minimum pension is € 726 – over 10,000 S – as you have said: Finally a minimum wage of 1 000 €! – After how long has the ÖVP blocked this question?- Oh, my God! And if we hear how happy you are to report that we are going to implement the social partners' proposals in this area, I can tell you: That's exactly the right tone! Only: It was our demands! Let's be glad if you put these into practice with us now! This will bring our country to where there are no more seven countries in front of us, but hopefully only more than six, five, four, three – and perhaps we are once again among the top three in growth, as we have been under social democratic leadership for decades! [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... at the top!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, have referred to unemployment, the trend is: Quite honestly, we should never have come into the negative trend! Austria may have had some weaknesses – you have addressed research, where I am not sure if some of it was statistics – but in the second half of unemployment, more precisely in the last three decades of the last century, we have held the best or at least the second best position in Europe. And now, in this decade, the unemployment rate has risen dramatically in Austria, while the European Union as a whole, even the old industrialized countries, have experienced a decline in unemployment since 1999! [[Abg. Hornek: Special in Vienna!]] Quite open: Make the change of course with us, then in four years this will really be a current hour where you can say: [[Abg. Dr. stupid: a dangerous threat!]] Now we've done it! I'll invite you to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3172	Next, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3209	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Someone said: “Now it’s gonna be hard!” – I really have to say: I think Mr Matznetter, you're somewhere in the wrong film! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] With you, the report from the last period in which you were in the government has gone through, because if you address the debt here, I can remind you: It has not made this federal government, but we have taken it over! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Go!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We almost had the blue letter from the EU in hand and now had to launch a rehabilitation programme. That is why I am surprised that you have forgotten the past, but also about other things, such as how you deal with statistical data. [[Abg. Silhavy: In oblivion you are...!]] They say: An economic growth of 3.3 percent relative to that of the EU of 2.8 percent is actually almost the same! – I can already say: With this 0.5 percent I want to play piano! [[Abg. Csörgits: Where are they?]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: Where are they then?]] These are thousands of jobs that lie behind them! - But you don't see that, that's just nothing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] I think we should be happy. And to talk about a change of course is actually the wrong occasion, because the facts have already been presented. Indeed, economic growth is not something alone, but the consequences are more jobs – around 60 000 more – and we have also more apprenticeships, which have not yet been addressed: 5,000 more, 127 000 teaching places as a whole. Exports are booming, we are going to penetrate the 100-billion sound wall, and it has already been mentioned that we have overtaken Switzerland in terms of economic performance per citizen. These are all occasions of joy, and in fact we should also talk about the conclusions, and I see here again and again a conclusion that many people in our country currently believe: Now the companies make profits, the profits are present, and you have to distribute them better immediately! – Here, I think, is an illusion in the game, because: Not all businesses make profits, many still have restructuring problems! We did not happen to have an economic flea in recent years, it was international, it did not come from Austria. But we have managed this situation well. Now, when you say at the farms that the profits belong to a new distribution, I reply: Limiting this You may be making the investment! There are not all with the profits in the Caribbean to invest them somewhere, even if they are only fictitious profits, but the companies use the profits for investments! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disc]] The second is the following – which has not yet been addressed –: Mr Matznetter, the state has a total of about €3 billion this year due to economic growth. It increases according to the Kest, it increases the wage tax, it also increases the cost. What does that confirm? – That the tax reform of this federal government was correct! But what is the conclusion that we have 3 billion more tax revenue? – Some of you believe that – and read only once in the newspapers!Use custom fonts; But you know even better what all that costs, what you now call for new measures – that this money is now available and that we can re-distribut it. – This is a very dangerous illusion that you bring to the citizens! My view and perhaps the view of many in our party is: We are actually rehabilitating the systems! Unemployment insurance currently has a deficit, pension insurance is not guaranteed for all eternity. Therefore, we should be very careful to deal with what we have in surplus income, and there I have a particular problem with basic security ideas, but also with a legal requirement that the minimum income be determined accordingly. I am glad that this is different now that the collective contractual partners should do this because: What Is Effective You with that? [[Abg. Oillinger: That takes another five years!]] If you intervene in the market, even with an overly high level of basic security, it sounds positive – it all has more income, impeccable – but you get a problem with the incentives for the assets. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] But you get another problem as well: The salary pyramid, the wage pyramid goes up, the prices go up, the wage demands – because everyone else wants more – go up too, and so you actually have less investment and less jobs! This should be taken into account in the context of the export quota: We are not Germany or France, but we have more than 50 percent export rate, and if you intervene in the market over-dimensionally here, this falls on our minds! That is why I would be very careful to put back everything that is related to basic security, all that is too much in the market. [[Abg. Oil: England! England has a higher minimum wage!]] Improve systems, improve the system of unemployment insurance – all right; but, as usual, if you can ride over the casting can, that's the wrong way! Overall, the following confirms the line: The enterprises were good, the employees were good – but the government's change will certainly not have been the wrong ones!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3354	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3397	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, I would be very interested in where you have your €3 billion in additional revenue and how you will then reach 1.2 percent deficit. I'd be very interested! Maybe explain this to me again! [[Abg. May. Molterer: There is also expenditure in the budget, not just revenue!]] This, Mr Mitterlehner, simply shows your disbelief, the way in which you deal with numbers, and also your selective perception, which can be observed on the part of the ÖVP as a whole, because: For example, if you quote the Wifo or other economic research institutes, then you could also say that, for example, the very renowned Professor Felder has found that it makes no sense at all in these times of great economic growth and there is no reason that we have a deficit of 1.2 percent, but that it would make sense to actually come to a zero deficit – what you have always claimed. So where you're going to get the money in worse times, you can actually ask yourself that! Equally to this reduction in unemployment: We now have six years of black and blue-orange government behind us, and in all these six years unemployment has risen, increased, increased all the time. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: How does this look like in Europe?]] Now that the black and blue-orange government has been elected, it has lost 15 percent – you can ask yourself: perhaps optimism is now increasing in Austria? - now there's a turnaround. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] In any case, you may already ask why you did not succeed in the six years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] All right, there are indisputable successes: There are indisputable successes in economic growth, there are indisputable successes also in innovation policy. You have succeeded in pumping more money into research and innovation, we are approaching this 3 percent Lisbon target, which Austria has also committed to, in fact, are in a very good position across Europe. Nevertheless: It is not only because of the quota, and you know very well that we are now in a situation where more money alone does not help us because our structures and our system in Austria are so clumsy and partly misplaced that money simply cannot be used efficiently. I would like to explain this briefly on the basis of one or two examples. We have the highest proportion of companies working with public research funding in Europe – the highest share in Europe! This is positive, however, the problem is that, to a large extent, companies are only users or editors of innovation. That is, they buy one, they also get a promotion, which makes sense, but we are no longer active in high-technology areas, we are not original innovators or innovators if you want to. Few, only 8 percent of companies are able to make real radical innovations, and do something. And this is a problem, namely: So far, in the pick-up process we have had, it has been possible to use and develop foreign research results. But if we really want to create additional growth and additional positive impulses from this title too, then we must have more and more such radical innovations. However, it needs – and you have actually started a completely false trend change – much higher qualified people in Austria. Austria has always been very good at high qualification – that was also a competitive advantage compared to other countries – but now we have a much worse status due to your reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] We have the third lowest academic rate of the EU-15. And it is now true that the farms are no longer coming to Austria because there are well-qualified people here, but it is much stronger to book that we do not have the lowest cost. That means that there is a huge need for change here. I am not talking about the situation of women and women researchers in Austria at all events and at the end of each list in the EU and OECD. That is, we need higher qualifications, a better degree in the academic field, but also a stronger demand for innovative products, such as in the environmental engineering sector, where you have also put the structures in the wrong direction. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Steibl: Talk time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3484	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3505	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard the previous statements in today's current hour, you get the impression that it's a current fairy tale hour – otherwise I can't appreciate it. There are almost tears coming to you when you hear about what you have heard from the ÖVP, tears before loud rags, how great everything is, how much more jobs there is in this country and how good everything has become. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] One has also pressed on the tearing gland and means what high debts one has taken over. - Yes, it's true: Public debt amounted to 2,200 billion schilling in 2000. This, of course, also has the red ones to answer the SPÖ, but where were you from the ÖVP? You're pretending to have taken over something here, but you've been in the Federal Government all the time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They of the ÖVP were with them and have to answer for this. But today You come here and talk about more jobs, higher growth and more innovation and say that the Austrian economy is on a successful track. Then you can only wonder that the Austrians do not recognize your “blessments” and on 1st. Not honoured October: minus 8 per cent for the ÖVP, and the BZÖ has been reduced from 16 Members to 7 Members at all. – So a clear rejection to this federal government, because people have very well recognized that this has not gone in the right direction. You should deal a little bit with the facts – and give less science fiction for the best! We currently have 293 560 people without work, if you also count those who are in AMS re-training programs that you always do not. This is a horning number of people who are unemployed today – thanks to this Federal Government, thanks to the Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel and Mr. Bartenstein. And that is the sad truth and reality. These are the data of labour market statistics. Of course, it must also be noted that the self-proclaimed savior of Austrian workers, namely social democracy, has always been there and contributed to this dramatic situation. If I look at the figures of Vienna today: Vienna has the red lantern throughout Austria: 72 000 unemployed in Vienna under an absolute red majority. This also shows that where red reigns, it doesn't really work better, but that you're finally in Austria, you have to emphasize that. What are the great jobs that have been created? – It is always told that you have created so many new great jobs. But these are underpaid part-time jobs! People today sometimes need two, three, four of these jobs to survive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't be proud of that! This may be the new world of employment of neoliberalism of the “Apostle” bowls and grasses, but that is not what people in our country expect. What economy is going well in Austria today? – First and foremost, the big corporations are doing well. [[Call the ÖVP:Prinzhorn!]] For these you have made reliefs possible, but in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, where we would have needed discharges, you have slept. In recent years, who has prevented the EIA from burdening small and medium-sized enterprises accordingly, so that the economy can really boom and really reduce unemployment? - No one has prevented you from doing so. This is precisely where we need to start: to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises. We still have a 4 percent higher than the average of the European Union when it comes to labour. Why didn't you go down there? But even the fiscal duration of fast-moving economic goods would now finally be changed to a real life, so to speak, which will have to be changed. In the case of profits not collected, one can start and ultimately more favouring them, namely the limit of € 100 000 to € 300 000, the amount of the allowance for non-refundable operating expenses can be increased from € 365 000 to € 700 000, and if it is transferred within the family, one should ensure that no inheritance and gift tax is applied in principle. All these are things that would be necessary, right up to the step of comparing apprentices with AHS students that, as long as they are in vocational school, the state also takes over. There would be a lot to do, because you have the possibilities to sleep. The fact is that under your federal government the rich have become richer and the poor have become poorer. The Wifo also says: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] “Since 1995, only the top 5 percent of income has increased slightly by 1.2 percent.” The higher incomes have increased sharply. I come to the conclusion: This means and shows that the upper income, i.e. the upper one percent of the income rail, has experienced significant increases, but all the other income levels in Austria have lost dramatically. – This is not the way we can support.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3575	Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3596	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Madam President. According to the original statements of Austria’s “greatest” economist, Mr. Strache, we come back to reality. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Strache: In contrast to you, I was an entrepreneur! You never did anything!]] Mr. Strache, you are constantly talking about “falling wages” in this country. [[Abg. Strache: You were always Party Secretary!]] I quote Mr. Bernhard Felder – he was only in the “press hour” and is a truly recognized economist in this country – in the “Kurier” on 21 January. ==References====External links== “In particular, the lower level of income is” under this government “as has never been relieved.” – This is also the truth. We have brought together a discharge with our tax reforms. And some newspapers have already been shown today. Even the “Kronen Zeitung” reports and titles: “Economics does not grow for a long time: Finally, there are more jobs again”. – I don’t know which newspapers you read, but that’s it! And to the remarks of Mr Matznetter, who apparently is no longer in the hall and has already left the house – no, here he is –: Mr Matznetter has said that he must now begin a serious inheritance. – He has to start a “heavily” legacy now: We have the best economic data for 25 years, we have about 3 percent growth, we have higher wages, lower inflation, thriving exports, higher purchasing power, 30,000 business start-ups and, and – you could count much more. [[Abg. Strache: Still re-indebted!]] Mr Matznetter, if this is a serious inheritance – an inheritance always before a funeral – then in the future every inheritance becomes a folk festival, Mr. Matznetter, and not a heavy inheritance. Because this is an inheritance that can be seen! I have only one concern after entering this heritage: that you go back to the past when you get back to government responsibility. This is the concern I have about Austria that we are going back to the time of the nineties: the highest debt, the highest taxes and taxes, lower wages, the highest inflation, the company tax, which causes a settlement and not a settlement to return to the highest taxes and the highest unemployment. I have this concern, if you take over government responsibility now, turn the wheel back, make debt, cost it whatever it wants, regulation, everything should be regulated, at best also forbidden a lot, freedom is no matter, we make a ban policy towards the population – back into the past! I'm telling you, people have a sensorium there. Of course, the choice has been behind for some time, but since then you have already reduced your confidence, and if you continue to do so, make debts, make billions of demands that are unfulfilled, continue to continue in this policy, then the next time you vote, you will experience your miracle again and then there will be a change here again, which will obviously be better for Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Molterer has also said – and he is right – that we currently have a small economic miracle. We have a small economic miracle right now, we have a high economy, and the forecasts are still very, very optimistic. And the current economic overall success must benefit all equally. This means that employers and employees should benefit equally. However, we have a misunderstanding that we now see between disproportionately increasing corporate profits – well so, absolutely well so, that is also due to a good economic and budgetary policy made by this government, where we have relieved companies, keyword reduction of corporate tax, where we have implemented two tax reforms and where framework conditions also benefit businesses – and rather moderately rising labour income. It must be the responsibility of the next government to compensate for this and to ensure more fairness here. That is why – I am very glad that Minister Bartenstein has also spoken about it today – we have put the model of employee participation in the foreground. Yes, we are committed to a free market economy, but under the highest social responsibility for employers and employees. The investment wage model, in which employees are involved in the profits of the companies, would be a future model, that would be creativity, because there is sure that employees will be able to increase wages and salaries, they will of course be more motivated, the companies have opportunities for new capital formation, and there were overall advantages for competition and the prosperity of the economy. That is why we stand for this model, for a discussion on this investment wage model, which should be applied in the future, as is already the case in the UK, in France, to a large extent, it is starting in Germany. Austria must also be creative, in a new partnership, in a new partnership of companies, employers and employees. In this direction, I appeal to you. It is also necessary to carry out further redundancies of the middle class in the form of a third stage of the tax reform. It is also important to promote equality between men and women at work – equal pay for equal work, which is important. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The concern I have is that, unfortunately, a great coalition is re-establishing the policies of the nineties and returning to a worse development than it has achieved in the last six years.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3697	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3718	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely Mr Westenthaler's speech that the population in Austria, the workers, the employees, the officials, are much more sensitive and see what has not been done to their advantage in recent years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The trade union members in particular!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The union members are very sensitive!]] They live in a dream world, and you have not missed anything in the last six years to bring workers into a situation where they are being given up to poverty, where more and more people have become unemployed – and you have been presented with the bill. I am convinced that it will be better for workers when there is going to be a turn in this country than in the last six years they have had to spend under your government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Bartenstein, you say that the economic figures are much better and that Austria is pleased to be on track and in economic growth is better than the United States and Japan. I can already remind you that many of those people who are now in front of the TVs are sitting or standing on the top of the gallery, despite rising economic growth, they are still unemployed. We still have a high unemployment rate in Austria, there are still a lot of people in training, but that does not mean that they are not looking for a job anyway, they are only “parked” in training measures of the AMS, and that is something that is always very much turned under the table. If you add those people who are at an age where you can obtain a pension advance or transitional allowance, we see that in Austria, well over 300,000 people are still unemployed. You have to put this on the table here! This is simply something that we cannot act as one of the richest countries in Europe, where we simply cannot stand by. In addition, it is also the case that many young people are unemployed. Especially now, ten days before Christmas, there are more and more parents who need to break their heads about how they can make their children a very little joy. There are many families that have been abandoned by your poverty policy and for which measures must be taken very quickly. One of these excellent measures, which can be quickly helped, is a very targeted, needs-oriented basic guarantee to help the poorest of the poorest in this country, which has become more thanks to your policies. In addition, active labour market policies are also important. There are a lot of good approaches here. The White Paper has been quoted where a good plan has been drawn up for the next ten years, where active action is being taken to combat unemployment, where a good proposal from the social partners of this country has also been drawn up and where resources and opportunities are simply shown. You just have to want, very valued ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy always wanted – and will always want it in the future – that in Austria unemployment will be combated with all available means! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unemployment is not only inhuman and unsocial, but it is also the most expensive form in which to give people some income. That is to say, at the same time as combating unemployment, debt can be combated accordingly in other areas, where it is simply because of your policy that many debts have been incurred, both in social security and in health insurance. This will be very difficult, however, because it is becoming increasingly evident that you, the Federal Government, which has been working for the last four years, are leaving us with a budget that is undoubtedly very limited in scope and scope. I heard today in the early days that the debtor's advice warns that because of the fact that Christmas before the Door stands and gifts are made, indebted. – You owe this country very much. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Look at the union union!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: How is ÖGB?]] But they have not made any gifts, at least not the workers in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3820	Next, Mr Amon. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3841	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Csörgits, your remarks here and the cutting you are showing, this is quite a matter of respect, because where a missing economic and financial policy leads, your employees in the ÖGB are experiencing just the same things, I really have to tell you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] We should not forget one thing in every small war that is being waged here: The excellent economic and growth data that we thank God in our country are ultimately the result of the work of Austrians. And we should all thank them here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And this is the result of risky entrepreneurs in the economy and agriculture. – This is crucial, and this is that group of people, ladies and gentlemen, who are also concerned about it and who make their contributions so that we have a social system that is, like hardly any other social system in the world and in Europe, connected. These are those people who do their work daily, who do something daily with their personal risk as an entrepreneur here for the economic location Austria. Mr Bartenstein has presented the success figures in a very impressive way. It is unfortunate that one cannot be pleased together, and it is also regrettable that – even if the national Council elections were to be held back – one is almost happy to see this data become known to this extent. Mrs Sburny, in the very simple view that economic data and unemployment data are really so good now, because the Austrians would be happy that this government has been elected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] The Austrians are glad that Rot-Grün is not going out, because they have experience from the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think you shouldn't do it that easy. They will – I believe – admit that the basis for good economic development, for labour market figures, not on 1st. It was laid in October but, of course, in front of it. [[Abg. Sburny: Can't you distinguish a joke from a polemic, Mr. Colleague?]] Then, Mrs. Sburny, I think that the bad education policy in the country would frighten companies. True, please, the opposite! It is true that in recent years hundreds of businesses have come from abroad to Austria, have settled here because we have a good economic location – and this includes the education system, ladies and gentlemen, which you do not leave at any time – you do not leave out! - I'm supposed to talk bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] One thing is clear: Even in times of European and worldwide recession, which we have felt in recent years, Austria has always cut off relatively well in international comparison – both what is happening to unemployment data and, in particular, what is happening to youth unemployment. I do not estimate little and do not take it on the light shoulder that this has dramatic effects in each individual case. Every unemployed person is one too much at any time – that is no question at all! However, it is allowed to compare: How did this federal government do it, and how did other governments worldwide and in Europe do it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] And here this federal government, I think, has a very tangible comparison that it can present, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we should be very happy on the side of the Social Democrats about the outcome of the elections. October, which I can't quite understand, but due to the fact that they won't do anything about it, they also lost their voices, they lost a lot of votes! – don’t pretend to have strengthened your position and positions in the content, because you have lost votes with your positioning. I would also warn, particularly in education policy, that good experience has been gained in dual vocational training, and good experience, for example, with vocational education and training, is tax-free overboard and says: Let's do all of this! It is precisely these vocational training courses that ultimately make a significant contribution to one of the lowest youth unemployment rates in Europe. That is what we should be holding fast to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say a sentence that I have written down, because I believe it is quite pleasing – I am already at the end of the sentence, Madam President. – Mr Matznetter said that growth must produce surpluses: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This is what we should think about in the next few weeks, which are still remaining for the conclusion of any coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3951	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3972	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It's right, the Austrian economy is right now. We are experiencing economic growth at an altitude which will lead to a decline in unemployment for the first time since 2000. Tax revenue is increasing sharply – but not by €3 billion this year, Mr Mitterlehner, Mr. Mitterlehner, no, only €1.5 billion; I do not know where you have your desired figures, and this will result in a falling budget deficit. Of course, we will not be able to talk about a sustainablely rehabilitated budget this year. Can we therefore already talk about an economic success story as a whole? - No, I don't. In his speech on the situation of the nation in June 2006, Federal Chancellor Schüssel said that the number of jobs is as high as ever, but “forget” added that the number of full-time workers has fallen sharply, that precarious employment has increased considerably, and that unemployment has increased considerably since 2001. In 2005, some 253,000 people were out of work in Austria. This should be full employment, Mr Molterer – he is not here – and this should be the full employment that your party has promised us in the 2002 and 2006 elections? – Certainly not! [[Abg. Grandruck: Yes, yes! He's already here!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A consequence of rising unemployment was an increase in poverty and risk of poverty. The number of people at risk of acute poverty has increased sharply. In addition, more than one million people live under poverty threat. And that, I ask you all seriously, is it supposed to be a success story? – This is a shame for a rich country like Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Analysis of the success of economic policy in other countries has shown that unemployment can only fall and go if the economy is growing rapidly. Economic growth – and that is true – is the decisive lever for reducing unemployment and poverty in this country, but for a reduction in unemployment – and there the economic researchers agree – we really need an economic growth of about 3%. And the economic research institute is forecasting a growth rate of just over 2% in the medium term. It is therefore necessary to change the course in order to reduce unemployment and increase economic growth. Austria and Europe are currently unable to benefit from a global growth rate of 4 percent, which is only growing by 2 percent in the long term – in contrast to the US. The question, of course, arises: What's that about? – It is the recipe and concept followed by the Austrians and the European Union, namely a concept that unilaterally focuses on liberalisation and on competition as drivers for innovation, which should ultimately strengthen growth. But they overlook a few things: They ignore the fact that there is no serious competition policy. They ignore the fact that innovation alone is not sufficient, but that we also need to look at how the money is used, for which it is used that an innovation strategy needs to be linked to an education and training strategy. Finally, it is very important to me to point it out! – general economic contexts are hidden. The issue of the weakness of domestic demand in Austria as well as in Europe – private consumption continues to grow weak – and the European Central Bank is pursuing a policy that is not committed to exploiting the productivity potential of the Austrian and European economies. The European Central Bank would be well advised instead of increasing interest rates, not wasting its power to track down the risks of inflation, but rather to track down productivity in Europe. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] A unilateral economic policy focused on structural reforms, liberalisation and stabilisation will therefore also be too short in future. What we need is a change of course in this country, a change of course, which we owe to our unemployed people and people at risk of poverty. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4031	The next item is Mr Themessl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4052	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me clarify two things before entering the economic subject. Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister of Economic Affairs and Economic Spokesman of the ÖVP Mitterlehner, spoke here of additional revenue of €3 billion due to the successful economy. If you add that in recent years you have greatly reduced the national bank's foreign exchange reserves and sold 105 tons of gold, you have to say: There's so much money there, so it's just too embarrassing that 14 days ago you decided here to give the pensioner just an alms! That is embarrassing because of these figures that need to be present! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another comment on the economic competence of Mr Ing. Westenthaler. As far as I know, Heinz-Christian StracheEntrepreneurship, and you, Mr Westenthaler, were secretary. Entrepreneurs make decisions, secretaries are providers and information providers and do not make decisions. [[Abg. Grandruck: All right!]] So much for the “economic competence” of a secretary to that of an entrepreneur. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't mean that seriously, do you?]] That was also held here once. Now we come to the economic issue and the lobby that you are doing here. You are all serious about the speaker's seat and claim with a self-glorification that you have performed an economic miracle. You should say once that you do not believe that politics creates jobs! Politics doesn't create jobs. Jobs continue to create entrepreneurs – diligent entrepreneurs! – and the economy itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The economy is very likely to respond to changing conditions as soon as possible. Now let's look at the starting position you've found yourself in. The starting position was that in the last two years, the world economy and thus the economic situation have started. Then look at your numbers and see what you've done from them. If one had to judge it as a witness, they would have achieved at most a good mean of what would have been possible. What bothers me in the course of these economic discussions in recent years is that we are constantly comparing ourselves with the worse. They seem to me like a student who justifys his mediocre grades with the fact that there is always worse in the ‘Europe’ class. This cannot be the objective of an economic policy which can be used in Austria in a targeted way to reduce unemployment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at your numbers, you'll see that we're only good at comparison. You can now benefit from the fact that by reducing the Köst you may have made a milestone for Austria's economic location. But even the Köst you have designed so rigidly that the human resources in large companies are not taken into account at all. That means you didn't take into account the net production value at all, you say rigid and stiff: 25 per cent is Köst – no matter if someone creates a lot of jobs, because the job, which people simply have to focus on, or whether they do a lot of money, “cumbles” and thus creates few jobs. Even there, you didn't think enough about what would be possible. What you have forgotten is the small and medium-sized enterprises. The small and medium-sized enterprises and the individual companies in Austria bring over two thirds of the total economic power of this country. And you've forgotten the length of time. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not “the best” in Europe – you just want to make the Austrian population know – but we are above the average: We still have a tax rate which is over 3 percent higher than the EU average, and we still have additional labour costs, which are well above the EU average. In the case of additional wage costs, it should be noted that: We are only comparing ourselves with the twelve original members of the EU. If we were to take the EU-25, we would be far away from the average and not from the best. You know, constantly comparing with those who are worse is wrong! If you have said again and again in the past that we are better than our German neighbours, you have misinterpreted it. You'd have to say: There are better than we are, and our German neighbours are even worse than we are. – That would be right and would hit the nail on the head. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say something: We have more unemployed than ever before! You have managed to get the statistics so... [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong!]] There are including those who are in the re-training courses at the AMS, which, by the way, in the meantime have driven you to an exorbitant level with the number of 61,000, more unemployed than ever if you take the total number of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's wrong!]] What you're forgetting: The Austrian population has also grown and not only the number of unemployed if you see it that way. We're far below the cut. If we want to rise in the future in the economy, and want to bring our unemployment figures to a pleasant conclusion – as is the case in Denmark, the Netherlands or Ireland, for example, which you never mention, because they are much better – if we want to be on the floor again in economic policy and do not have to constantly justify ourselves not being the worst, then you must make more out of the opportunities that you have done so far. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4189	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4210	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Themessl, I have to tell you – but you should know that! –: For four years Mr. Westenthaler was top manager in an international world group, in a world group that creates huge jobs in Austria! - That's just ahead. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: As Eurofighter-Thank you!]] [[Further calls for Members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] On the subject of economics there are many keywords and words, but for me the term “economics” counts only if it has the goal of making positive things for the entire population. That this is the case, this government has proved during the last two term of office. Because whether I look at Austria alone or within the EU, it is a pioneer in many areas. Not for nothing – I am allowed to quote literally – domestic and foreign media write in the most positive way about Austria’s achievements in the economic sector. For example, the “standard”, truly not an ÖVP or BZÖ-near newspaper, wrote on 29 May. November of this year: “Austria’s economy is growing stronger than expected”. The “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” says on the same day: “Austrian economy remains on track”. And perhaps to quote another international newspaper: ==References====External links== In their opinion, November continues and answers the rhetorical question, why the little neighbor grows faster, with the statement: ‘Austria uses the east opening more decisively than Germany.’ Ladies and gentlemen, you don't need these newspaper reports to see that, but you just have to deal with the facts. The fact is: Austria's budget policy is exemplary for Europe as a whole. The reason for this is that the Austrian financial and economic policy is carried by three pillars or objectives: from a balanced budget over the economic cycle, a reduction in the tax rate by 2010 to 40 percent, while maintaining fiscal stability and a sustainable growth policy. I can only hope that the future government coalition will continue to pursue these objectives and actions. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. stupid.]] You have to ask one thing: What exactly did economic policy look like before 2000, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Go, go, go!]] Budgetary policy was based on a huge debt policy, without tax relief or reduction. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is the way of the ÖVP!]] - No, no! Or just take the discussion about the shop opening times! Mr. Mayor Häupl could have had the business locked up on Sunday for a long time, then a hundred jobs would be created in addition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Which is even more important: I think that the staff would also benefit greatly, because they would be 100% surcharges. The fact that it would be lucrative for the companies is, I believe, self-evident. In order to strengthen Austria's economic location, we have taken a number of short- and long-term initiatives – no! – which stimulates economic growth, which has increased employment. [[Abg. Shopf: Sunday work!]] I just remember the many economic recovery packages. [[Abg. Shopf: Who used nothing!]] - Yes! The fact that the right impulses have been set at the right time also shows the following balance sheet: Between 2002 and 2006, gross domestic product reached an increase of 13.6 percent. The figures and statistics, according to record employment, could be mentioned, but I believe that this is an important factor: The unemployment rate is falling. The fact that Austria's economy is on a success course also shows those figures as regards the EU ranking in terms of innovation. This is because we are in fifth place, and this is within the 25 EU countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I was active in the economy for over 40 years in my professional life and – with many heights and depths – was faced with good or missing economic policies, I can only recommend to the future government: Continue this path which the ÖVP has taken on the side of the BZÖ for the benefit of the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4337	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:20:59]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4358	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4477	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on application 55/A(E) concerning legal anchoring of the Austrian rural development programme 2007 to 2013 be limited to 29. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4505	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, we raised an objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4529	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 87 minutes, green and FPÖ per 63 minutes and BZÖ 60 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This has been adopted unanimously. [[11:22:51]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 24/A(E) by Mr Mag. Kurt Gaßner, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Lutz Weinzinger, Ursula Haubner, colleagues on the collapse of the Czech AKW Temelín (13 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4582	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are now entering the debate. First of all, Mr Krainer. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4613	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! We have here a five-party request that the government should act in two steps. In fact, “calling” is even the wrong word, but it should be called strengthening the back – namely, the federal government’s own position – in order to act against the commissioning of the Temelín nuclear power station, in the final consequence of a international lawsuit, which, as we agreed in the Committee, will be prepared here immediately after this decision. We support this, we believe, and this is in principle in line with what the Federal Government also reported at the time when the Milk Protocol was negotiated. ==References====External links== In December 2001, an advertisement or many ads were placed, where the then Minister for the Environment Molterer, who is now Klubobmann of the ÖVP, and the then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, signed the following: First: “The Austrian security requirements are fully implemented by the Czech Republic.” Secondly, “The implementation is monitored by Austria and the Czech Republic.” Thirdly, ‘Temelín shall not enter into commercial operations until the necessary security measures have been implemented.’ Fourth: ‘The agreement is legally binding and... enforceable.’ I assume that what you have written in writing with signature is still valid today, and therefore I do not see any problems in bringing this action. And I also assume she'll be successful because your signature's on it. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== National Council meeting – that was in the XXI. The legislative period – essentially the same, among other things – is the following – I quote: “We have insisted that the conclusions will be incorporated into the Act of Accession as a protocol.” Furthermore, you have said that our primary right is indictable that the Czech Republic will not take up commercial operations before the points are implemented, and that the Temelín AKW will be retrofitted, et cetera. These are all things that didn't happen. The Temelín AKW has gone into commercial operation and the Federal Government has nothing to do with that. What we now have to worry about is that the promise given by the Federal Government at the time, namely that this is indictable and we can enforce it, is also being settled in reality. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and are keen on the success of this action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4680	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4701	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The Temelín AKW has been a topic since the mid-1980s, i.e. for two decades, which unfortunately has not lost date and brisance to this day. At the outset, I would like to mention that in fact, the zero variant is our goal and that objective must continue to be pursued. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This five-party resolution proposal is an important and necessary measure to call on the Czech Republic and to stop it from complying with the Milk Protocol. It states that in any case, the implementation of the security measures mentioned is the prerequisite for the commercial operation of the Temelín AKW. ==References== November 2006 – and I would like to stress this – has been officially confirmed by the Czech Foreign Minister on the basis of an express demand from Federal Minister Pröll. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a clear breach of the Treaty, actually a provocation of the special class of the Czechs, and that is why the strongest protest must be made. Safety improvements have also been made clearly and clearly too little from the point of view of the experts, and this is therefore a clear violation of the existing agreements. Only the research of the Upper Austrian Anti-Atom Officer confirmed the importance of the latest security failures in Temelín. Even in the heart of the nuclear power plant, the so-called active zone, there are massive security problems. 51 out of 61 control bars, which are the most important device to stop the reactor, have failed to meet the requirements. The Czech Atomic Supervision Authority's recent attempts at weighting represent an advantage for all Upper Austria's Temelín opponents. – These words are from the Upper Austrian head of state Josef Pühringer, whom I would particularly like to mention here, because he has clearly taken a massive negative attitude against Temelín for decades. I would like to confirm that there were 16 decisions against this nuclear power plant in the Upper Austrian Landtag. In view of all these circumstances, this motion for a resolution is essential: Either it is taken back the collauding and all still open Security measures shall be implemented immediately and proveably, or all available international legal action, in particular the international legal proceedings, against the Czech Republic shall be initiated immediately. It is now under great pressure to work on this international law lawsuit. However, it must also be kept legally in order to ensure that it is not rejected on the grounds of a lack of drafting. That would not bring us anything as the Republic of Austria. On the contrary: This would be very negative for this important matter. A good legal preparation of the complaint and the rapid and effective introduction and implementation of the same would, in our view, be the right procedure – especially in the interests of the affected population, especially the Upper Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4775	The next item is the third President, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. 7 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4796	Madam President. Mr Umweltminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. As one of the first resolutions of the National Council in the new legislative period, there is a five-party resolution by the Environment Committee. This continues a good tradition that began at the beginning of the 1990s. Since then, there have been five-party resolution proposals in this House, one of which is against the background that anti-atomic policy is a common concern and that this also represents the great approval of the Austrian population. This good tradition was interrupted during the last legislative period, through the consent of the Minister of Education Gehrer to the Euratom research programme. Since then, there has been no consensus in nuclear policy in the Austrian National Council. Now there's him again, at least on the paper. I am therefore saying “at least again on the paper” because I have become unsure in recent days as to how serious it is to the Environment Minister now with the introduction of the international law complaint. – My previous speaker meant that it is now being worked on with high pressure. The Temelín nuclear power plant has been in operation since 2000. In 2001, the second reactor block went into operation – a total of 2,000 megawatts – so Temelín is a huge power plant. There has been local resistance since the late 1980s, so for almost 20 years the people in Upper Austria, but also in Lower Austria, have been working against this power plant by environmentalists throughout Austria. ==References== November this year, i.e. a month ago, the final stone was probably laid, and if there is now no massive resistance from Austria and no massive protest in the form of a international law complaint, then the Temelín chapter is done in truth and all the resistance on the ground and the whole resistance of the anti-atom movement and the citizens were for nothing. It is also co-responsible for politics to be able to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With high pressure working on it, my predecessor of the ÖVP said. - Since 13. ==References====External links== This is the last legal step in a long sequence. 2004 was the nuclear authorisation, 2005 was the building permit, and last year the International Expert Commission also completed its work on a report that clearly shows that there was no safety upgrades. This is also so enshrined in the motion for a resolution. I repeat: There was no security upgrade. The Austrian experts considered that there is no evidence of the extent to which these legal approvals are now possible. If these are actually done, this is a breach of the Milk Agreement, a contract which is binding under international law between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Austria. I believe that contracts will be concluded to comply with them. I also believe that promises made by the Austrian population's policies must also be kept. In this context, I remind the ÖVP of its advertisements in 2001, where it has clearly promised the Austrian population that the Austrian security requirements will be fully implemented, that their implementation will be monitored by Austria and that the Temelín AKW will only go into commercial operation if the necessary security measures are implemented. The last point is that the Melker Agreement will also become a part of the Accession Treaty and can also be sued by EU law, which has been promised in large advertisements in all Austrian daily newspapers, has already been broken at that time. This promise has not been fulfilled. You promised the Austrians something, and if you really meant it, Mr Pröll, with this promise, you would have been a little bit further in the last few weeks and months. You said in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that you should wait until the notice that the collapse will be translated. Excuse me – but the message is on the 13th. It was November, so it's been a whole month since then. I don't think your experts in the Environment Ministry need a month to translate a note and then draw the necessary conclusions from it. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: ( towards the government bank) Learn Czech!]] Since 30. October, that is, for a long time now, all the Members of this House – and the Ministry of the Environment know too – know that we want this complaint together. So you could have taken the preparatory steps much earlier. The sadness of this slowing down and dragging tactic is that in Upper Austria people have to go on the road again and again – and they will have to do it at Christmas – because you do not act, act too slowly and drag things off. I think we are particularly guilty of the local population – right now before Christmas – to ensure that this goes faster. Anyone who knows the legal basis and has dealt with this matter – I have done so too, for a very long time, even in my dissertation – knows what ways there are. They shall immediately draw up and submit this action. There must be no further tactic of wear, on the grounds that you would first have to have the letter translated and wait for international expert reports. This adds even more to the impression that you want to continue to do what you have done to Temelín in recent years, namely not to take resistance seriously and not really deal seriously with this problem, and would actually be glad if the problem were to be dealt with by yourself at some point, in such a way that you could not do anything more anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Act, Minister! Take this seriously – and finish your excuses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4862	The next item is Mr Weinzinger. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4883	Estimated President! High house! At the beginning of this meeting today, we had a current hour, and we heard the hymns of praise first order, how incredibly excellent and successful the work of our “highly esteemed” and “loved” federal government is to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We were “deep ” impressed. We've seen what's possible if you just want to. Now I ask you: Why, then, do we have to fight with the Temelín problem for 20 years if you can do as much as you can if you just want? – Obviously you don't want to! I have the gloomy impression that a policy is being pursued on two levels in the area of Temelín: On the one level, on the outside, we, the Austrian politicians, are completely closed from the left to the right – that is, up to me, if you want to do so – to the zero solution: [[Rejoicing]] We don't want nuclear power plants in southern Bohemia! We don't want that! That's what we're saying. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For twelve years I was in the Upper Austrian Landday and twelve years each year was given at least two to three times this common vow. And what is it? - Temelín stands! No, it's not just smoking. No, it's not just smoking, there's also a pan after another. Recently we were allowed to experience a small “snap number anniversary”, the ninetieth Panne. Ladies and gentlemen! “Snap number” is a funny word – the ninety-nineth Panne in a nuclear power plant, which is not 100 kilometres away from the Upper Austrian border, is not a funny thing. We have weathered against the Temelín nuclear power station in the committees, in the countryside, in Parliament. We have taken decisions against it. We are now again making a decision – together, all five parties, all of us are for that. But we had opportunities to do this before. Where was Austrian policy when it came to consenting to the Czech Republic's accession to the EU? Where were we when we had the opportunity to force the Czech Republic to meet our demands on the Temelín nuclear power station if it really wants to go to the EU? - That's what we've added. We have concluded the Milker Agreement and have thus calmed the population. And what happened? – The collapse was conducted under the break of the Milk Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not really make serious now, if we do not really initiate a international law lawsuit, knowing precisely by the way – precisely know- send! – that this is completely wreathed to the Czechs, because they have been dancing around on our nose for years, then all resistance was for nothing. We should finally put a sign and show the Czechs that we do not like everything, and we should not only do it in Parliament, but also within the framework of the government – and I ask you to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4965	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4987	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, With today's five-party resolution proposal, we put another sign, more than urgently necessary, in the fight against a pan-sensitive, unsafe and day-to-day problem-setting nuclear power station close to the border of Upper Austria. For years, particularly in Upper Austria, there has been a great deal of concern among the population and the concerns of the people. The risk arising from a border-near nuclear power station should not be underestimated. That is why the country of Upper Austria – and I have been Environment Councillor for almost six years – has launched many initiatives in recent years – initiatives at country level, at government level, as well as initiatives that have repeatedly supported and accompanied the peaceful and sensible protest of anti-atomic groups and of individual citizens who are concerned; Protests that have taken place on the border, protests that are very sensible and very thoughtful for the closure of a highly dangerous reactor, where – as my previous speakers have said – pans are commonplace. Five years ago, when this security dialogue was agreed within the framework of the Melker Agreement between the Czech Republic and Austria, there was some hope. It was also Verheugen, then EU enlargement Commissioner, who supported and accompanied this legally binding treaty between the Czech Republic and Austria: TemelÃn can only go into commercial operation if existing safety defects have been removed. – The surprise, but above all also the impact, were very great, than on the 3rd. In November, the official operating permit was announced without prior evidence of the implementation of all public security issues. I think this is an affront – an affront against Austria as a contractual partner, but above all also an affront against the legitimate concerns of the people of Austria, and I say: It's five to twelve! I would therefore ask you, Minister, to take this Parliamentary request very seriously as a very clear, sustainable attempt to act quickly, taking advantage of all legal possibilities at European level. If the examination of the documents results in an unsatisfying outcome, please act quickly and do not test too long, so that we do not lose our right to international law! We've had five years, five years lost without much. Well, I think the time of compromise is over. We must make massive protests – a massive protest that also results in people in Austria seeing acts, namely actions by the political leaders, because we are in the word of people, but we are particularly in the word of those who are before us. A few years – and that was almost one million – the popular desire against TemelÃn, especially for an aus for TemelÃn, for the zero version, have signed. Today's newspapers bring in the title, among other things, an appeal by the Temel­n Commissioner of the State of Upper Austria, who says: If Temelín is not stopped, then there's a risk! – When we read this, we know that the situation is very, very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5035	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5056	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that a clear sign is being prepared here today in Parliament with the debate on a five-party agreement with Causa Temelēn and, as I hope, a clear guide to action - I see this as well - is set for the further action of the Federal Government and the Minister responsible. It goes without saying that in the past – and I say this also applies to the future – in Austria's anti-atomic policy towards the European Member States, we have clearly acted along the following line and beyond: We reject nuclear power in consensus as an energy form, as a non-sustainable form of energy. We rely on renewable energy sources. And we are trying, particularly in the neighbouring Member States, to place special emphasis on border forces. We did this and did it all around TemelÃn. And last but not least, due to the Austrian Federal Government's discussion of this issue, the Melker Treaties and Brussels decisions have been taken, which remain alternatively, compared with all other efforts, are unique as the legal and legal basis between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic for an action guide, the first – and we will never go away from this issue, and I think that the future Federal Government will also have to commit itself to this – the zero variant will continue to be central to our efforts. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: Everything we need to discuss at the level of the Milker Treaty must serve the security of the Austrians, especially those who live in the border area near Temelín and who are very afraid of developments there – nothing else! That is why we will continue to pursue our clear course on this issue in the future. We are currently active on three levels, ladies and gentlemen. If, in individual debates today, the Federal Minister asks us to bring an international lawsuit immediately and without delay, I would like to refer to these three levels: to develop, to explain and then draw the corresponding conclusion. We have to pay attention to one – and that is, I think, the basic consensus: With an overcrowded, overcrowded international law lawsuit, legally not clearly founded, taking into account the status quo of developments in safety in Temelín, for security improvements, for expert reports we can suffer a spectacular shipwreck, because the suit is rejected, is declared not responsible, whatever, and then we would have played the last instrument spectacularly. I therefore believe that as a further procedure – and I take the guidelines of action seriously in the motion for a resolution, that is no question, they are necessary for me to take the following strategy in the coming weeks and months: First: At the end of September, there was an expert workshop – which has been with the Czechs for a long time – and we have to wait for the results of this expert workshop to be evaluated on the spot, because then we will see what the operator has done on this issue since the last security dialogue and the expert forum. What has happened, what has the operator changed or not changed in the sense of our ideas and wishes? This final report must be available so that we can then include it in the basis of international assessment. Mrs Glavischnig has made the translation of the colluding decision and so on. To this end, we must say: We have requested the notice immediately after the collapse has been announced, we are in the process of translating it, or it has been translated, and the experts are now dealing with this collapse decision, because this is, of course, the second basis on which any international legal action must be based. We must evaluate this notice accordingly and include it in our evaluations. The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is that, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, we must also prepare the international legal proceedings in such a way that representatives of the competent Ministry of International Law complaints, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the international law experts of the House, but also in order to check all the foundations and prepare the right conclusions for a waterproof complaint. We must act on safe ground – anything else would be too dangerous because this step is the last way to deal with the Czechs around TemelÃn accordingly. I see these three topics as essential in the next few weeks. We will immediately bring to the table international law experts who have to assess, on the basis of what is to be done through Melker's Treaty, Brussels Agreement, security objectives, expert dialogue, colluding notice and then submit their conclusions on how to proceed. We have taken and will take these steps – take it! – take the further steps consistently. In this sense, I would like to sum up: All those who rush at the pace are endangering our last means in this matter. In order to protect the people in Austria, we must set quality against speed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's the smart variant, that's the safe variant, my dear ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, as the topic of “take seriously”, “take resistance seriously” was often addressed here: We have also agreed a security dialogue with the Czech Republic in addition to the agreement, and this security dialogue is also something indispensable and alternative. I ask everyone, in these days and weeks also in Austria with an eye - I understand the concern in the border regions! to ensure that this dialogue is not threatened by unilateral measures. It is legitimate to show displeasure at the borders, but we must ensure that these actions do not break key elements of the Milk Treaty and the Brussels Agreement, thus not providing the Czech Republic and operators with a cheap basis for the legal exit. That is why I ask you to proceed with an eye to dialogue. This motion for a resolution will be for me and for us to take the next consistent steps and take them as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5144	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5165	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I can speak so much today for those people who live near the TemelÃn nuclear power plant. Of course, all of Austria is at risk, but only those who live very close to the border and live – by the way, I come from the Mühlviertel – obviously fear much more than those who live a little further away. If you have been listening to people from the Mühlviertel for some time now, they probably do not understand the world at all, because what you have said now, Mr Bundesminister, has actually been overdue for six years, perhaps only for five years! If you want to explain to us – to us mill four-year-olds – the Waldviertlers as well; the wine-fourths are also affected – that quality has to be before pace and that the security dialogue must not be threatened, I ask you, Minister of State: What dialogue is actually taking place? If I would like to receive the release after your press conference on 12 February. I wonder why this ambassador can say that there is no international treaty, that environmental minister Josef Pröll has hardly come to speak on the Melker Agreement – and in this division it continues – that he does not understand that we are blocking the borders, and so on and so on. – Is this the dialogue, Mr. Federal Minister, which is being conducted? The people in the affected areas believe that nothing has happened since these agreements, which have always been discussed, and they have simply been carried around at the nose. Nothing has happened, and people are afraid, because the disturbances are increasing, they are constantly increasing. And you can calculate it exactly – there are experts who can do that, I can't do it –: The more it needs to be switched off, the worse it is for this power plant. 99 times that's already happened. In a press release by the Upper Austrian TemelÃn Commissioner, the danger is again clearly presented to us. He says: "According to our comparison calculations, the active zone of the first block in Temelín could already be on the 15th. In February 2007, the critical area was reached.’ If not switched off at the latest at the end of January, this can lead to an evil threat to the population. And you, Minister of State, tell us: Quality before tempo! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: For the suit!]] Now you could say: Yeah, well, this Mr Pavlovec always surpasses. – But, please, someone should come and prove the opposite! It's never the case that someone comes and says, That's not true! It's always just being maligned, it's always taken back – but it's not happening to God! I think that you, Mr Federal Minister, should, of course, pay attention to quality, but you must press ahead when the people who are ready back there on the border show you what else should be taken off. I stand up to these people, but I hardly dare to let myself see at these demonstrations anymore, because as a political representative I am ashamed because we all – and that has already been said today – always only decide, decide, decide, and in mind we know: Well, it's not gonna be so tragic, nothing happened anyway. Mr. Federal Minister, tempo is in demand! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5202	Mr Sonnberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5223	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! In 1978, the Austrian population decided to abandon the peaceful use of nuclear energy – and that was a real and important step. In contrast, in 1980, the Czechoslovak government decided on a development programme which included the construction of the Temelín AKW with four planned blocks. The construction permit for the third and fourth block expired in 1989; it is, moreover, already being considered whether further measures should be taken here. In 1993, due to the separation in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, then the Czech Prime Minister Václav Klaus declared himself in favour of prefabricated construction, including Western safety technology. In 1999, another review of the sanctity of these projects took place – and unfortunately, the Czech government took place on 12 July 1999. In a very short vote on 11 May 1999 : 8 for the extension. In Upper Austria, joint initiatives have been launched since 1987 under the head of state Dr. Josef Ratzenböck and later under the head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer, because of course the Mühlviertler population was and is rightly concerned. The Upper Austrian Land Day and the Land Government have done a lot, very much, there have been substantial tax money put on platforms, there is an anti-atomic agent and many more other activities. Mr Gaßner, who is here to blame us for being inactive: Of course, we all know how difficult it is to be successful internationally at Austrian level! And if you are already criticising, I must, of course, also criticise the governments of 1980 and 1986, because it would have been possible to intervene more effectively, especially in the case of concrete decision-making, especially at the beginning of the construction. If only a few billion euros are invested, it is of course all the more difficult to reach the closure of this power plant by means of a stop policy, for which Mr Pröll has also expressed himself very clearly today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, there has been a collapse, and the Czech Republic has actually committed a breach of trust at the time. We have pushed aside the veto discussion, have given the operators the advance of confidence – and unfortunately now these requirements are not met. We are well advised to develop a common anti-Temelín policy in the future, so I welcome the five-party resolution proposal. I appeal to the Czechs: Also applicable to them: Pacta sunt servanda! Of course, the Czech Republic will not be able to provide proof of security, so the introduction of international legal steps will simply be necessary. But I am of the same opinion as the Federal Minister: It really applies here: Quality before tempo! It is not speed that decides, but the accuracy and effectiveness of future measures. Finally, three comments which are important to me: In Austria, we will continue to depend on the import of hydrocarbons from the few delivery regions, for example gas from Norway and Russia, so the EU's constructive partnership with these countries is needed. Secondly, At the same time, in the coming years it will be necessary to make use of the EU increasingly independent of hydrocarbons through research and development and the development of existing reserves of sustainable energy production, while developing exportable know-how. This is also a huge opportunity for Europe and Austria. Thirdly, Europe needs a common energy policy with three priorities: Energy external policy, evaluation and improvement of the internal energy market and measures to increase security of supply. I am very glad that there is this joint motion for a resolution today, and we really need to see that we know how to protect the people of Mühlviert. But it is not easy to achieve that. At that time, the EU member Berger said that the Czechs really met us very far – the Czech government is now massively criticized in its own country that it has made too many concessions to Austria – Austria has certainly achieved a very good result, so there is otherwise an agreement across Europe for no nuclear power plant. – When we build on it and ultimately take the Czechs into the duty, I hope that we will achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5290	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5312	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a joy to be able to decide together on an all-party proposal, on a key issue of security, energy and the future, in the newly formed National Council – I believe it is the third session. Surely this is very positive, only: The way forward, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has been extremely laborious, and I must stress this very clearly. There was a need for protests. There it took summits in Upper Austria. There, I think, it took 99 incidents in the Temelín AKW. There is a need for initiatives by the nuclear officer. Since all the anti-AKW initiatives have had to exert pressure on Upper Austria. There have even been border blockages. And despite this massive local resistance, from the region, it was not possible to make this a common issue at the first parliamentary session. There have been delays again, Minister, delays which would not have been necessary. Now, thanks to the pressure from Upper Austria, we have really made it so far that we can make this consensual decision today. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Only, Minister: The Committee's statements, the experience of previous parliamentary decisions – there are a number of unanimous parliamentary decisions on the anti-CFC issues, on nuclear policy, also on Temelín – are these experiences. We are shown that Parliament's decisions are often not taken seriously enough by the government, even by the Minister for the Environment, nor are they properly implemented. That is why, Mr Minister, I am relatively critical of your statement, and we have to let the quality of the train move before speed. I quite agree with you that the international lawsuit is one of the last instruments, if not even the last instrument, and therefore it has to be carefully prepared, only, Minister, that I do not believe that the preliminary work is of any quality. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Shopf.]] You, Mr Federal Minister, could have been useful for years now to take the security issue a little more seriously. In addition, I have picked out the answer I have raised in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, 3462/AB, and you have asked me what security measures the Czech authorities or the Czech operators have now carried out and how you evaluate them – I quote – the following: “The level of activity so far achieved and the consideration of current activities (improvement of the properties of components compared to earthquake hazards) allows the conclusion that the qualification of safety-related components in Temelín” – be careful now! – ‘no more open security issue’. That was your assessment, you answered me; I think it was about a year and a half ago. This is also the reason why we do not yet have the quality we need to handle this complaint instrument. Mr Minister, there are failures! As in the expert report: You said in September that was the last security workshop! Today we have the 14th. December! There are months in between! However, this expert review could have been completed by October! – But no, because you always say: Quality before tempo. I can only attest, it's partial failure before tempo, it's ignorance before tempo, it's left-ly-leaving before tempo. And this always shocks us again and again, and that challenges us, and that sometimes also provokes some dangerous actions in relation to neighborhood contacts. This also leads to people being left out more or less and as the last means again resort to border blockades, border blockades, which are not a neighboring gesture, but which are an outrageous gesture. Today you have said you support the border blockades. . I would rather do all you can to ensure that such a final instrument of protest does not have to be used, because it always makes a distinction between two neighbouring groups of people who have the same interest in themselves. That's why, Minister, I'm pleading for it and insisting that You're finally making speed and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5391	Next, Mrs Rosenkranz comes up with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5412	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! We have, of course, long agreed on the objectives of anti-atomic policy. That proves again this all-party request, which is here today for decision. Austria has refrained from the peaceful use of nuclear energy. No party could shake it, no one wants it. The Anti-Temelín People's Desire has also spoken a clear language: Although it has only been really well documented in three federal states, it has received nearly one million votes. No one wants to shake it, the content is clear, and it should also be clear about what follows from it. If we in our country refrain from the peaceful use of nuclear energy, because we consider the risks too high and do not want to carry this risk, then of course it follows that we do not carry the risk if nuclear power plants are in close distance beyond our borders. That's how far unity should prevail. What is to be discussed is whether we have made sufficient progress in achieving this objective, namely to achieve the safety of nuclear power plants beyond our borders. As you can see now – the Milker Treaties are a legally binding agreement and have not been complied with –: We have not achieved this goal. Clearly, the strategy has not yet been efficient enough. Mr Pröll, that is the question we need to discuss, only that is the question. And if I have heard you before, I do not have the hope that we will come to a strategy that will also deliver a result. They're going to continue as before. But I'm telling you: That's not how it's going! They say, not too much speed, all of this has to be done. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I didn't say that!]] – That is completely out of question! That's what we've never missed, we've always been so sensible. It was not a question at all – that was clearly to be seen – that, of course, the ÖVP would not, of course, be subordinated to any other objective of Easter enlargement. The milk agreement was then established, which was necessary in order to satisfy at least some of the people in the sensitive regions. I understand that there are overarching goals, but I believe that it is also good to do the right thing to do in the interests of respect for the political and, above all, on the international and European parquets, to strengthen a little, to extend the scope. That doesn't mean that I'm asking for indifference or that you should do something that isn't usual. I mean, however, that the Austrian government has never done what would be necessary to satisfy the population and its interests, especially on these issues and specifically to the Czech Republic, but also – and I would like to express this to you; You are a young politician, you start new – you have not done that with which you acquire respect. Respect will not be rejuvenated, respect must be acquired! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Be insured: No one will take it to heart if you take your interests in a moderate manner, but in a repressive way – and that has not happened until now. I only point to another example, also to the Czech Republic: Much has been said about the Beneš decrees before. The chancellor's party has also brought the veto story. I can only remind you of this: Your uncle, the head of the state, then threatened sometime in a “press hour” with a veto and said he had this ash in his sleeve. – Not in the Talon, in the sleeve he had it. But in truth, all these things were not meant seriously. Then they told the people: Once we are in a common European Union, this problem will be solved very easily. May I ask you to look at this and to imagine that in terms of Temelín: The opposite happened! The Czech Republic has not even dropped the Penal Exemption Act, but has immediately decided on it – this is an affront of the same – in Parliament: Beneš made himself worthy of the Republic, and thus every activity led against the Beneš decree ad absurdum and made impossible for the future. – So the opposite happened! Our negligent reticence and our subservience and our self-loss towards legitimate interests has not led – of course not to – to the fact that this would have brought us some advantage on European parquets, but quite the contrary, everyone has reached the right conclusion: With Austria you can do what you want! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask you to do what should have been done for the long time in the interests of the Austrians, the security of the Austrians, but also in the interest of self-respect of this government and the country: to represent our interests towards everyone solid, measured, but sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5479	As a Member of Parliament, Mr Dolinschek has now spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5500	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Temelín AKW is, so to speak, a permanent burner in Austrian politics. Everyone who is concerned knows that the entire population in the border region has been very, very uncertain and alarmed for years, especially because of the increased number of incidents in recent years. We in Austria are all parties in the same opinion: There should be only nuclear power plants not only in Austria, but also in the vicinity of Austria. The safety failures in the Temelín AKW should be eliminated, and an Austrian team of experts on the ground is also monitoring this work so to speak. Although these shortcomings have not been fixed to this day, as it should be, there is now an official approval for the permanent operation, as we are now known. A so-called collapse has also taken place. Mr Federal Minister, I know that you are in constant contact with the authorities in the Czech Republic that you sent a letter to the Czech Foreign Minister that you quoted the Ambassador to your ministry to discuss it with him. That's all good and nice; I know it's not quite easy. But you can't put a solution to this problem on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, you can't act here so you say, steady drop hollows the stone, sometime. It can't be that way. We just have to increase the pressure, and we're not alone here, but we also have allies. At a nuclear power plant such as Temelín, which is so disruptive, you simply have to put everything to the point that it is closed. This zero variant has actually been an Austrian subject, but now also an international issue; it should also be implemented, there is nothing to shake. Mr Pröll, you have said before that a international legal case must already be carefully considered, as there should be nothing to be missed. – I’m right that you can’t go here and just write something in, but of course you have to wait for the exact translation and so on. [[Abg. Street: Now!]] That's not a question, that's quite logical. But you must now also increase the time pressure, Mr. Federal Minister! You have to increase the time pressure so that this happens as soon as possible, because the population is troubled, and we have to make nails with our heads here. We should quickly prepare and bring these international law actions, because they are all of the same opinion: This power plant belongs simply closed!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5537	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5558	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by expressing my personal pleasure at the beginning, but also on the part of my group, that it has succeeded in introducing a joint five-party proposal on this subject today, and I accept and hope that this proposal will be adopted unanimously today. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the many activists in the anti-atom movement, especially in my hometown of Freistadt, because it was finally these activists who, in recent weeks and months, have been very committed to nuclear power and, in particular, to the Temelín nuclear power plant. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Pröll, if you look at the events of recent months, of recent years, and above all at some of the statements you made on this subject, especially on the Milker Agreement, it is interesting to note today what has been achieved. They said recently that the Milk Agreement is a unique agreement in Europe. – It’s really unique! You, Federal Minister Pröll, said: As the Federal Government, as the competent minister of no nuclear power plant in the world, we know as much as the nuclear power plant in Temelín. And you also thought that the Federal Government was constantly being informed about all the details, about all the projects, especially all the security defects. And you said, also here in Parliament, that there is an excellent dialogue with the representatives of Temelín, but in particular with those responsible for the Czech Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all good and beautiful – but the result is crucial. And the result is on the table. The result is that "melk" failed. The result is that there are still very many security failures. The result is that Temelín has been officially in commercial permanent operation for a few weeks now. It was agreed in Milk that not only an Austrian group of experts, but an international group of experts, will experience, detect and document the security defects. It has also been agreed that these shortcomings will be eliminated and that the Austrian Federal Government will be informed about them. So far we do not know – and you have not been able to say it in committee, Mr Minister – what is the safety- The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the harmonization of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of However, we know that the collapse has taken place, and we have known for a few days now that the Temelín nuclear power plant, as has been said, is now in continuous operation. And that's also the reason why the mill fourrs are deeply affected and really scared. I have been living in this region for decades, and I can still recall the difficult situation in connection with Chernobyl. I don't want to compare Temelín with Chernobyl, but people are worried. People are worried because there have been a hundred incidents. People are alarmed because the anti-atomic commissioner of the Upper Austrian state government did not return until yesterday when various safety conditions in the next few days, in the next few weeks, are not fulfilled, especially with regard to the fuel rods, then there could be great difficulties in the next few weeks, so that the population in the region will actually be in danger. That is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, to act faster – not the way you meant it in the Committee. But I am also looking for – at least there is a German chancellor – that the German Chancellor becomes active in person and has a conversation with the government colleagues of the Czech Republic or also provides a personal protest note in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5629	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5650	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Much has already been said about the merits that some people attach to the subject of Temelín. We have a five-party union, that's nice. But one must also be quite clear: The fact that we have this five-party agreement is due in particular to two circumstances: on the one hand to the tirelessly fighting super-party platforms, which have not yet given up, which really act over-participatively and which have never been put off any political pressure. We have to thank them for the fact that this agreement has actually been reached today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, we certainly owe this today's agreement to 1 million Austrians who at that time signed a popular desire with 1 million signatures in an unanticipated form – not presumptuous of politics – and only made it possible for something to continue in politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If there has been a milker agreement, you have to say, in contrast to my colleague Sonnberger: Dear Peter, that was not a good contract, even if you quoted here today that he is incomparable across Europe. – I can tell you, he's really incomparable, because he's not worth anything. He's really nothing worth it! He was a placebo for the troubled population and nothing else! A report from the University of Linz confirms to me in this statement that many mistakes have been made in this Milk Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! – It is also a pity that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is not present today, For it would be the actual obligation to bring this action against the Czech Republic in a further form; it is responsible for the matter. – I would like to focus briefly on the failures. The failure is not without it. Mr Sonnberger, Mr Gaßner: The Treaty is defined as a contract under international law. In conclusion of this contract, mistakes were made, such as: It has been forgotten to anchor a statement of dispute in it. As a result, we can hardly attack this treaty. But if we had done so, we would have had the opportunity to go to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. And that's not really what you wanted it to be – or you didn't want it at all. But there must be those who are able to look into the mirrors that have submerged it. It has also been denied the obligation of the European Commission. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the time the European Commission practically required Austria to sign this agreement with the Czech Republic. This is now the point on which we must say that the European Commission needs to be taken into account today to influence the Czech Republic so that all the points of the Milk Treaty are implemented and fulfilled as minimum requirements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, I have already told you in committee: International law knows the position of concealment. If the Czech Republic violates international law, Austria refuses to do so and does not respond to it, then this will be accepted and will be in conformity with the law. There's already a certain amount of time in space. It cannot be that we are now going here and saying that we are still considering this for months, but we need action on the basis of this provision of international law. I would also like to say the following: If Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has signed this contract, he is obliged to speak with his ministers in Prague in order to exert pressure. Otherwise, nothing goes on in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5728	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. She wished herself a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5750	Mr President. Minister! High house! The permanent and verifiable defects of the Temelín nuclear power station pose a threat to us; but not only for us, it is a limitless threat, as we know, since we have had the painful experience with the CAU in Chernobyl. I think that this threat, in any case, justifies all current international consequences and paths for Austria, and that they are really to be taken – and that very soon. The Austrians have already made a very wise, very wise and forward-looking decision in the late 1970s. Many countries that are now trying to get out of nuclear energy are very envying us for this law. Others, on the other hand, believe that, in reality, nuclear power is also an alternative to the problem of climate protection, of greenhouse gases, and of course we are also clear in Austria: No, that's not an alternative at all! AKWs have a far worse climate balance than they have renewable energy. They are not sustainable, they are very expensive, especially expensive, to the time. Global energy supply will be a very big common challenge that we have to face. The energy hunger is huge in China and India alone with its huge economic growth. The annual growth rates of plus 3.2 percent of energy demand show that, as well as in Latin America, there will be an increase in energy consumption by 2.2 percent and in Africa by 2 percent in the future. It is clear that this huge need, where many people are at home, where many people can develop themselves and their economy, will in no way be useful with fossil fuels and not with nuclear energy at all. Therefore, there is a real need for a common global effort towards a supply of renewable energy, especially for developing and emerging countries, but also for neighbouring countries and, of course, for Austria. In the sense of all the people, especially of us Europeans, who represent only 5 percent of the global population, it is clear that a fight against unsafe nuclear power stations, against climate-damaging emissions must be carried out in solidarity and that no way will pass by the increase in energy efficiency. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5789	Mr Dobnigg spoke next time for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5810	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of 99 incidents, the fear of the population of the Temelín nuclear power plant is absolutely justified and, of course, justified. A beautiful or beautiful speech simply cannot be accepted. And the concerns of people in the border region must be taken very seriously and the corresponding actions put in place. Part of the Milk Agreement was the Czech concession that Temelín should only be put into service as soon as all safety concerns are removed. ==References====External links== In November 2006, the collapse of the reactor, thus unilaterally breaking the international agreement of the Milk Agreement. This is the last link in the chain of the unsuccessful anti-Atom policy, the anti-Temelín policy of the now fortunately elected ÖVP BZÖ government. And a big problem was, among other things, also the not exactly ambitious work pace of you, Mr. Federal Minister, in this important question for Austrian security, because despite the alarming signals from the Czech Republic you did not react decisively enough here. Since you have made the statement today that you want to look for the dialogue, I already wonder: Where is a dialogue here? In any case, I see no one, because the Czech Republic is – and this is clearly visible – not least interested in working substantially on the security improvements that have been taken with Austria. The five-party proposal to be decided today – and I would like to thank all Members of this House very warmly – is therefore an extremely necessary and indispensable step. In this motion for a resolution, we call for from the Federal Government that it calls on the Czech Republic to prove all agreed security measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Remember, unfortunately, the accident in the Chernobyl reactor cost more than 170,000 innocent people life! Let us remember the millions of victims of radiation and remember the years of production restrictions! It must not repeat such a terrible case; it is therefore high time to proceed here with all the sharpness and hardness. There must be no further delays. It must finally be over with the tactics of sitting out and waiting. It is now necessary to act quickly, and action must also be taken as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5859	The next speaker was Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5880	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Hardly a nuclear power plant has aroused such emotions in Austria as the Temelín nuclear power station. The people in Austria are rightly afraid. After numerous negotiations, the Milker Protocol was adopted in November 2001. The main objective is to improve information and increase the safety of nuclear power stations. Today we can find out: Both objectives were not achieved. The numerous incidents, to which the 100 prove this, and the breach of the obligation to provide information confirms this. In particular, as regards commercial operations, the Milker Agreement states that the implementation of the security measures listed in Annex I is a prerequisite for commercial operation. In a final report of June 2005, an international expert committee has considerable doubts as to whether these requirements were implemented and actually fulfilled, for example as regards the lines on the 28.8-metre stage or the qualification of the valves. In both cases it is possible to accept the fulfilment of the safety requirements as not confirmed. In June of this year Mag. Otto Gumpinger of the Anti-Atom Committee The following shall be confirmed: “The fact that there are massive problems in the reactor 1 in Temelín was known to us, but it is so bad that it even surprised us. This reactor must no longer be driven up. Everything else would be criminal.” Now to the Milker Agreement. We have heard the word ‘salvation’ today, especially when we look at Annex 2 to the Milk Agreement. There are recommendations from the Commission, 21 points, to minimise the concerns of the Austrian population. It is also unclear. In accordance with the Milker Agreement, the Austrian Minister of Agriculture and the Czech Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister are responsible for implementation and monitoring. What has been done about implementation and monitoring so far? – The commercial commissioning without prior information from the Austrian Federal Government is at least a breach of the Milker Agreement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of one ends where the sphere of the other is affected. This is true in private law and, of course, in international law. This applies to Austria and, of course, must also apply to the Czech Republic. This must also apply to disruptive nuclear miles, because the effects of a crash do not have any limits or any Schengen agreement. That is why there can only be one goal for us. We are no longer talking about compliance with the requirements of the Milk Protocol, but about an in-depth analysis of the collauding documents, and then we are going to initiate all the legal steps available for breaking a international contract. Then: Just as the Czech Republic deals with Austria, one cannot deal with a neighbouring country and an EU Member State. The present motion for a resolution instructs the Federal Minister for Agriculture and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to take all necessary steps. – That’s good if it happens quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5931	The next speaker is Mr Mayer, who is also elected for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5953	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a great task for me to be able to hold my first contribution to the debate in the House on a subject that has accompanied me from the very beginning in my political activity and was also a reason why I was interested in politics in my young years when it was about contributing to Austria's exit from nuclear energy. I was at the time with many other parts of a great anti-atom movement. All these years it has been the subject of nuclear energy, which has had a very long-lasting negative effect on politics. I am not a forest viper, nor a miller and no wine-fourtler, but with us in Vorarlberg it has succeeded in preventing the planned construction of the border-near RKW Rüthi in a great effort. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded in this form at Temelín, but at the latest Chernobyl has brought the latter to the attention – even with us there were some iron “concreters”, who believed that everything was technically possible and feasible – that we must use all the strength and effort to stop the further development of the nuclear industry, nuclear energy. Nuclear energy is the great challenge for us, but also for future generations of politicians. It is especially important for us as active mandates to do everything possible to solve the problems that come to us and which rightly cause fears among the people. It does not matter, therefore, how we deal with this problem, Mr Minister. You must have the accusation fallen, at least during the time you are working, not to have made any decision and determined enough cooperation. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Grill: That's a premise!]] Now it is still too hesitant to show how the “old” federal government, although still in office, has adopted an active anti-atomic policy – I want to call it that way. For years, the old Federal Government has been watching how the Atom lobby, acting under the guise of climate protection, has been acting at EU level and is massively expanding its power. This supremacy, which is being expanded here, is also to be completely suppressed by the government. If you really belong to a new government, Mr Minister, I hope that it will be led by a head of government, whose heart is a consistent anti-atomic policy, and which is a real concern to the fears of the people, for the goal must be that Temelín comes from the net. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6004	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich, who has been elected for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6025	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I have received a lot of documents on the subject of Temelín. When I looked through these documents, I encountered a lot of reports, many opinions. I also found a paper showing Temelín's security deficits. I read it and then asked myself the question: Is it my job as a Member of Parliament and I am responsible - I can quote a few terms from this paper here - to determine the frequency of a serious nuclear damage of 2.1 x 10-4 per year and its impact? Do I need to know what a sputtering of the reactor pressure vessel means? Is it my job to establish or doubt probalistic safety targets? I know that there are certainly not many here in plenary, the nuclear experts are or also have experience with nuclear fission. However, I know very well, and many who have dealt with the subject of Temelín also know that there have been incidents in Temelín, which were only reported to the Austrian authorities 48 hours later. Many also know that there have been 99 incidents, of which every single incident is clearly one too much. Many also know that in 2006, you, Mr. Federal Minister, were sent by an Upper Austrian delegation on the occasion of the Anti-Temelín Summit. It was informed in Vienna that safety retrofits did not take place in accordance with the Melker Protocol. What has been done against it since the conclusion of the Melker Protocol in 2001 to 2006, this question has already been raised, Mr Federal Minister. The people, and not only those in Upper Austria – I come from Southern Styria – throughout Austria and probably across Europe, expect politics to act, that it decides and that it protects us people, and they also expect security. Mr Federal Minister, there is a need for action! I ask you to: Please become active! Do it! Act for the benefit of all people.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6068	The next item is the speech by Mr Stauber, who has also been elected for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6090	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! For me, too, it is an honorable task today to talk about such an important topic as the Causa Temelín in my first speech here in the House. The security of our population in Austria and, above all, the future of our young people and our children are the highest we have to defend here. I think the date is 26. April 1986 is still best remembered. The Chernobyl disaster can still be felt on our pastures, in our forests today, because if today the pastures and the swams are still contaminated with caesium, then we know what a high danger we are talking about here. From this point of view, of course, the fears of the population in the forest, mill and wine districts can also be particularly understood. As we have heard many times today, this plumbing, pitching and pan reactor in southern Bohemia is increasingly developing into an infinite history. That the Causa Temelín is increasingly developing into this long and very dangerous history, for which too our Federal Chancellor and you, Minister Pröll, are not entirely free of any guilt. They were the leaders of the so-called Milker's process or Melker's agreements contributed and left Austria's population in the mistaken belief that Temelín's problems and, above all, Temelín's security problem were solved. As we have heard today, this is not the case! After the collapse of the reactor, we know that this agreement is not really worth much. It seems to have no seriality and consists only of empty formulae. However, since the lack of quality of this agreement cannot be improved retroactively, it is now high time that you, Mr Minister, and all of us, together in this matter, decided against the Czech Government and above all consistent. If you always claim that quality has to go ahead of pace, I can give you a certain degree of justice, but speed is also a question of definition, because finally, snail speed is also a form of speed. I think you know what I mean. And if today the whole House is behind you and supports you in this matter, we should also be consistent and researching towards the Czech Government. A small comment from a Carinthian point of view: Even if Temelín is rightly in the focus of Austrian interest, we must not forget that we also have a nuclear power plant bomb in the south of Austria at the borders of Carinthia, whose clock is also ticking. Krško is also a threat and is even on an earthquake line. Krško is a threat such as Temelín, so I ask you and the House to focus attention on this nuclear power plant. Minister! Do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6135	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I ask everyone to take a seat because we are coming to the vote. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 13 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 6.) [[12:46:48]] 2. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Criminal Court of Vienna (95 Hv 127/06a) for approval of the official prosecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler(9) of the Supplements 3rd. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Criminal Court of Vienna (091 Hv 7/05y) for approval of the official prosecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Ewald Stadler(10) of the supplements
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6202	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6230	Mr President. High house! First of all, I say to you that the basis of this extradition request of the State Court of Criminal Matters Vienna is the private credit according to § 111 StGB of a bankruptcy judge and a mass administrator from Salzburg, who was or are still active in the Atomic bankruptcy. I would like to express my sincere thanks to these two private prosecutors for this private contribution. And this is not cynical, because this gives me the opportunity to quote without penalty from a private and non-violent investigation of the People's Procuratorate, which has now become a public file in a public criminal proceedings. I will therefore also agree with this extradition desire itself with enthusiasm. Now to the story behind it: Ladies and gentlemen, the whole of this is based on a test procedure in which Mr Commercial Council Alois Rohrmoser, who, unfortunately, has died, has turned to the People's Procuratorate for ten years – I stress for ten years! – he argued that he had stolen 100 000 pairs of skis from his own bankruptcy mass and had committed a criminal proceedings against him. 100 000 pairs of skis are 24 truck loads. For ten years, Commercial Council Rohrmoser was made mouth-to-mouth with the claim that he was a criminal and had stolen 100,000 pairs of skiers from his own company. In the course of this bankruptcy – and this will be the subject of the Banking Committee – there was a 94 percent satisfaction rate for the – practically – single-believer BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen! Call me a bankruptcy in this country where 94 percent satisfaction rates have been achieved for a bank. A 94 percent satisfaction rate, only with the BAWAG. A 94 per cent satisfaction rate and it was really fair to try to hide as much money as possible, ladies and gentlemen, even by Mr Concursor, also by Mr Mass administrator. The Atomic bankruptcy has been the deliberate destruction of a flagship company of the Austrian ski industry. It was the deliberate sale of an Austrian company. Since BAWAG had already come into being for the first time through the Caribbean business of Flöttl junior, the Atomic Group, through the Atomic company of Mr. Commercialrates Rohrmoser, was able to renovate for the first time in order to get out of there quiet reserves that are urgently needed in the BAWAG in order to be able to cash the Caribbean business for the first time! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, it is not a praise of the Austrian judicial system that one was not willing to open the criminal act and conduct the criminal proceedings as it would have been. I am happy about it and a little proud that I succeeded in ensuring that in January 2005 Mr. Commercialrat Rohrmoser could at least die as an unspoiled citizen, ladies and gentlemen. But this man is broken by the willful destruction of his life's work, of his structure. I think this is also a human scandal that has taken place here. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am silent today about the jobs that have been deliberately destroyed. I am silent about what this cost the Austrian economy, but I would like to tell you that no one, like Mr Flöttl on the eve of the evening, has been able to explain to the Finnish buyer who sold this company for 970 million schilling before the opening on television. And then the BAWAG bought back 10 percent of it by 360 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen. This is a mathematical solution that I could not understand to this day, how 100 percent 970 million schilling can be worth, and then 10 percent of it can be bought back by 360 million schilling. All this, ladies and gentlemen, I am now able to quote from this Rostra without punishment and without being suspected of misusing my former role as a popular lawyer, thanks to the private contribution of these two above-mentioned gentlemen, and continue to give the best in the process, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to thank the private prosecutors once again, because you have to be clear about one from now on: From now on, the Banking Committee will also, but also in this criminal process, be provided for information. And I do so with explicit support, in accordance with the explicit will of the widow and daughter of the unfortunately deceased commercial council of pipe moss, and I feel neither morally committed today nor to allowing this unique scandal of Austrian economic and judicial history to go through without penalty or comment!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6299	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 9 of the supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council. Werner Koglerbestands; therefore, an official persecution of the deputies becomes the National Councillor Mag. Werner Kogler did not agree. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion from the Committee on Immunities in 10 of the Supplements. The following shall be decided: In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Mag. Ewald Stadler notes to the Immunities Committee that rationale temporis is not a link between the incriminated act and the political activity of the Member. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously decided. [[12:54:06]] 4. Point First reading: Request by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and its Studies (University Law 2002) (1/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6387	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant, Mr Grünewald, receives the floor for six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6415	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it would have been a long time to detideologicalize the debate on tuition fees and put it on a rational argumentative basis. If we look at today’s “The Standard ” newspaper, some of the German government will rejoice. There, high numbers of inscriptions are not reported for a long time. That was correct reporting, but any report could also require a comment. The comment is: We have fewer students this year – and are the only European country with France – than seven years ago. That would be a different report. But she didn't come. Club head Molterer quoted international institutions and said Austria was a model for innovation, model and inspiration. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The EU Commission!]] The EU Commission – perhaps it may be a translation error from Portuguese if you have just subsequently mentioned education and research more or less in the same breath, because it looks different. I'd like to admit: In the last 40 years, a lot has been done. Researchers and students may also be grateful for this. Nevertheless, it is far from enough, and it must be seen that there is still a fairly broad way to achieve equal opportunities in the education system and to give everyone or as many as possible the opportunity for higher education. That education is no longer a monopoly of nobility, church and citizenship, that is beautiful, but a biterl little. If we depend on utopia to give as many as possible a wider education, we should also be careful that this possibility of utopia will eventually become a reality, and the way for me is far from over. Why do we insist so much on the abolition of tuition fees, on wider access? Why do we insist on a right to education? It is simply because education is a little more than pure training, but it is a little more than the production of labour for the changing fashions of the market. Education is a human right, because it is only through education that I say very salopp, but probably right, that we become people who have greater scope for action that are critical that can be oriented. This cannot and must not be a privilege of a minority, and we must not at least be content with these figures, with these jubilation messages. It is also completely austere when discussions repeatedly argue that broad education and open access are a contradiction to excellence. That's just wrong! I can call you deputies that are totally unwarranted. The industrial association – and with which I have not only conducted discussions during the election campaign – even the Catholic Cartel Association, Professor Tichy as a recognized financial and economic expert of the Academy of Sciences, are the ÖVP education models, in terms of school and university, to miles ahead, to miles ahead and in many things closer to us than the ÖVP. That's supposed to be thinking. Also what UNESCO says, what the OECD says, what PISA says, what the Chamber of Labour says, are all rational analyses of an Is-State, which does not allow us to see how the Federal Government does to shake the incense vessel, like a hammer-thrower. The only thing that flies is the barrel, but the person, the person, turns around in the circle. It can't be! It must also not be possible for the university to carry out, through study fees, the selection and the much differentiation of remote and lower-income shifts and their children to continue or even to do so. The characteristics of the education system say: We needed more students and no less. That they must be trained well is not a question. One can also talk about course management, but if one comes to the conclusion that we cannot handle them well in quality, that does not mean that one humbles himself and says: That's it! You have to do something to get more access. But what do we signal young people? – Education must be paid. I have to buy education. Then comes the question: Can I afford that? And if you divide the fees – what does it cost per day? – and then there are only three bulldozers or a break, so these are simply ridiculous, cynical bills. If you look at the average income of Austrian households, this is an amount that meets many people who are not covered by study aid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We communicate education to students, as it were, as a kind of commodity, and this is a reduction in the concept of education. We inform them that they will not be desired. We tell them that our universities die in chaos if you allow more. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You do it!]] What am I talking about? – Something else, at least the opposite. If you don't understand that, you even sit in the wrong room, as I mean, and are far away from the concept of education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want to convey confidence, if you know this term, we want to convey perspectives, you should know this term. Young people need that. But since I no longer have a perspective – that only shows the red light, but not the future – I stop it and hope for insight, deideologisation and reasonable conversations.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6492	Next speaker: Mr Broukal. He wanted a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6514	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists welcome the Greens' request for the abolition of tuition fees. We do not think that the tuition fees are necessary, even hindering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I don't understand. If you tell me later, maybe we can talk to each other in the couloir. [[Abg. Wheelers: You don't want to understand!]] No, I don't understand. You talk so indistinctly. I don't know what that's about. Three-quarters of the students are employed after a new study of the Chamber of Labour because they have to be, and the tuition fees correspond to the yield of one and a half to two days of a taxed student job. We have already said in the election campaign that we would like to return these two days a month to young people for study. Here in the National Council – and this is the problem – it is of course the case that a majority of Members want to maintain the tuition fees: ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ. So it remains only the way for the SPÖ to proceed through the government negotiations, and this way we are and want to go, with emphasis and determination. [[Abg. Wheelers: Will we see!]] I hope you will laugh at the end of the day when the tuition fees have been abolished, if it has finally succeeded in convincing you too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The fact that the ÖVP is developing a sturgeon in terms of this issue is not just proof of you, we see it again and again, and the Greens also have to learn it in their government negotiations in 2003. At the time, “Falter” was able to read about this section about what you have achieved, what you have not achieved: "The study fees remain hard on Minister of Education Gehrer. There should be more scholarships to compensate for.” Now, even today, four years later, this is the attitude of the Federal Minister. It would be interesting once if they did this to us publicly... – Yes, just, but you saw, you didn't get to the end at that time. [[Abg. Brosz: She has no idea!]] The ÖVP said no. [[Abg. Brosz: She has no idea!]] That's the state to this day. You can regret this now, but we do not have an agreement here either. Wait till the end of the day! Please wait, Mr Brosz, and we will not spill the milk until it is hot. Of course, you could say that a year ago your clubman on TV asked the question of Robert Stoptacher: Is the abolition of charges a prerequisite for a coalition? literally meant: This would, of course, be easier to negotiate with the SPÖ as with the ÖVP. – And so, unfortunately, it is God to this day. However, we will make a great effort, and the matter of abolishing the tuition fees has been explained as the principal issue. It will hopefully be explained to our satisfaction at the end of the four-eye conversation Gusenbauer/Schüsel. It's not ours at all. And with your history of the 2003 ÖVP negotiations, please understand a little. But I think we must not lose sight of the fact that young students today have problems other than the abolition of tuition fees. Mr Zach and I were at a protest meeting of 600 students of nursing science at the University of Vienna two weeks ago. 600 out of 1,000, for which there is a professor and a half assistant. Unsustainable conditions! Or take the University of Economics Vienna, there is a new publication of the IHS: A professor for 270 students. I emphasize: On 270 students! You're happy to see it once in a semester, on your way to the canteen. Or take the education science or the publicistics in Vienna. A student sent me a cell phone shot a month ago. You don't sit in the lectures on the stairs, that's normal at the university, you sit and stand in the hall and you're happy when you hear something. There can be no talk of seeing the professor. Or take the bad payment and the bad career prospects of many young scientists at the universities. These too are our concerns, including financial ones, and we must and will help them too. My request to the Greens – but first I would like to say: Your request lacks a lot! They do not want to abolish the tuition fees in this application at the vocational universities or at the educational universities. I assume that this is just a failure and you will be presenting additional requests. I still have a request to you... – Have a little patience! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The abolition of tuition fees is still strongly serious and should be negotiated until the last result. My request to the Greens is: Could you advise your young students standing in front of the SPÖ party headquarters that they should go to the ÖVP headquarters for at least half a day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6632	The next item is the report by Mrs Brinek, with a five-minute voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6654	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! More rationality has been required by my previous speakers. - Yes, please. We can already start with the generalization of Mr Broukal. That's not a academic attire. This includes differentiated argumenting. So let us start with the resolution and discussion of the wrong premise, Mr Green Forest, which you are working with. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] Yes, teachers can also make intermediate calls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, happy result: the highest number of students ever reached. 250,000 people are studying at universities and colleges. We have always included universities in the European comparison, Mr Grünewald. So please, here too. Don't mix apples with pears and don't say the clear name for that! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Tastes good!]] Yes, tastes good in the fruit salad, but not in the statistics of university graduates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Maximum number of students in the field of higher education, higher education, universities. Also, the number of those who develop from the parents' professional development – emancipate, you can say – is very high. 55 percent of students at a university or college have parents who have not attended a Matura leading school. That is to say, it starts exactly what the opposition party is always important – and the ÖVP, of course, too. Absence of the tuition fees: What does that mean in relation to our neighbouring countries and in the awareness that we are living in a European country? – There is no so-called country children’s privilege. We will therefore have to watch, we would not have been able to do anything about how students from Germany stream to us. This, of course, is also an opinion that can be represented to say: Yes, we subsidize, we promote, we make up students and young people from other countries! Ladies and gentlemen, something else: I'm quoting the statistics professor Hackl, who says: ‘OECD Education Report gives Austria a more positive image than reported in general upon closer consideration.’ The number of students and the number of students: 37 percent of the maturants in Austria do not automatically go to the university via the school that ends with the educational goal of Matura. Only 16 percent of the maturants come from the AHS, the rest comes from the BHS. In addition to entry into working life, higher education is also available as an educational goal. Please don't mix the numbers here! Because the above-mentioned increase is always quoted by the previous speakers: Here too, Professor Hackl saves himself from improper comparisons and says: The increase in the number of students in Italy is mainly due to the new study plan, faster studies, faster progress! In Switzerland, from one day to the next, the university students were included. – So here too, please be careful about statistics! Another note: Professor Grünewald, you say that PISA has so to speak shown us where we lie. – Yes, if you are against a neoliberal educational idea, then look at the categories of PISA more closely! Here it becomes visible that this is not exactly the Humboldt’s educational idea, which you sometimes represent. If we in our schools and universities hold a little high what the European idea is, the European education conception, then we must not go after PISA naively, but also look at these things critically. In other words, the method competence of Professor Haider, which will be discussed many times on academic grounds. My colleague, Beatrix Karl, will also deal with details of this request, because there are a few other gaps to be mentioned in addition to those already mentioned by Broukal. By the way: I am not only looking forward to the increased number of students, to the maximum level of 250 000 students in Austria, but also to the fact that we have been able to take a positive step forward in the assessment of employment, which is the following: The older the students are, the more they strive for an acquisition in addition to their studies. - That's what we want! We want vocational studies, we want vocational training and training courses at the vocational colleges. That is to say, in total I agree with the opinion of the London School of Economics and many experts who say that it is socially not fair to allow the population to finance the study so that a very specific group can benefit from it – I also agree with the opinion of BSA member section head other than service Höllinger – because even without study contributions it has not succeeded in bringing to universities to a higher degree or to a high degree so-called children from far-reaching shifts. That is, socially staggered, socially deflated study contributions are socially fair! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thank you!]] We are concerned about the development of study funding. However, let us note that we need to discuss the future issues of study contribution development with more rationality. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thank you!]] – Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer Cap! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6750	Mrs Mag. Treasure with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6771	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens are against the tuition fees, we are for their abolition. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Bravo!]] Study fees prevent studies and hinder study – and we certainly do not want to, but we want better and more education in this country! “Education Makes Free!” – Know You're this very common quote? – It is by Friedrich Harkort from the 19th century. ==References== And he wrote even more about it: Education “makes it possible for individual opportunities to rise; it should lead to rational life and budget management, to self-confidence and independence against the feudal-observable tradition of subjection, to insight into economic and social reality....” - Exciting, isn't it? Social rise opportunities, self-confidence – not new, but always up-to-date. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Thank God he was already Epigone!]] I hope you see it that way. Self-employment against the tradition of subjection, insight – insight! – in economic and social reality: That is exactly what education should bring; higher education to an even greater extent. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not new!]] But be To be honest, ladies and gentlemen: Is that what you want: more insight, more independence from authority? Or do you want something completely different? Keep it perhaps more with the motto: If I'm a prince and you want to be a prince, who's still driving the donkey? – Maybe you'd rather keep it with this motto. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Exactly!]] Study fees prevent higher education. We have an academic rate of 14 percent – and that's not a fairy tale! – at an OECD average of 24 percent. You and we know that it is embarrassing for education policy to have such a thing, which is an economic disaster. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And study fees that hinder studies are probably not the right way. Yes, of course, then comes the argument: There is a study aid, the study aid is all the same here! – Yes, there are people who are studying, but there are many students who cannot meet the criteria because they are forced to work side by side. They will not be able to carry out examinations in good time because they have to finance their studies. [[Abg. Broukal: This is what it looks like: the longest study fee in Europe!]] But most of the students do not receive study aid because their parents have medium or higher incomes. That does not mean that these students also get money from their parents! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's how it looks!]] And do you know what the legal situation is? – Students who, for example, cannot finance the tuition fees themselves are supposed to sue their parents! As a family party, they propose this as a solution: Suspects to get some money from parents? - We don't want that! We don't want to do this, we reject the tuition fees. Study fees prevent studies, they hinder studies, they should leave – the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6898	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6930	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't know if I can really mess up this issue, but I thank you for the advance ladyberries. What I'm not going to succeed is to light this topic in three to five minutes as it's worth it to be illuminated. We will certainly continue to deal with it in detail over the next few weeks and months. I would like to address some of the arguments that have been put forward here. Just like what my previous speaker said: Study contributions prevent or hinder study. – I can’t really join him. I was a work student myself, have some experience from this field, come from a working-class family, therefore also have experience in it and can not entirely join it, especially since it is so... [[Abg. Broukal: Two doctorates made!]] – I didn’t do two doctorates, but that doesn’t matter – one at least. Mr Broukal, when we introduced the study contributions, we had heated debates, and I always said at that time that there is actually only one measure where we need to evaluate sooner or later, and that is: What about the graduates? We were concerned that we were dealing well with the time resource of young people. And it was known that we had a lot of board drivers at the universities who, as you have always said in student circles, have enrolled in order to get a cheap semester ticket and study reductions. It is a fact that the universities were unnecessarily filled. With the study contributions, it has been achieved that those who do not really study have actually been held by the universities, in that – in the positive sense – when they have not even enrolled. But I believe that this has not really done a national economic damage. [[Abg. Broukal: But hardly any benefit!]] Point 2 is: The number of graduates has really increased, i.e. students are trying to get through with their studies faster. And one year earlier to complete the studies, i.e. to reduce the study time by one year, brings by far a lot a lot of what the study contributions cost at that time. At the same time, we have, of course, greatly increased the study aid – and this is missing from Mr Groenewald's request: Nearly 40 percent – 40 percent! – students do not pay any study fees because they are either free or receive funding. That's what you have to say. [[Abg. Broukal: There are 23 percent!]] – 23 percent? – We will take a closer look at it and explore this argument. If this is so apodically said: If no more student contributions are paid or necessary, then more people will study, get done more quickly and enjoy more education and then we finally meet the international average of all the student numbers we have!, then I have to say: That's not true either! Mr Grünewald, you know it best yourself: We do not need more students in every field, we have very, very many students internationally in many disciplines, and you have to see that too! Where we lack students, the technical and scientific subjects are. And I don't know anyone who wants to study technology or science, who hasn't started or could not finish studying because of the study contributions of this study if he wanted to. I don't know anyone! – There we are madly lacking, there we simply have too few students, and there simply will not fix the miser, we have to find quite different instruments. I am not a fundamental opponent of study contributions, but it is not the real question of flags. What I want is that the cancelled study contributions will be spent efficiently on the students at the universities – and that does not happen as we all know. There's a misdevelopment in progress. We all receive innumerable letters from students describing the hygienic conditions at universities, where there is a lack of simplest infrastructure et cetera. These abuses have to be solved! We were always followers of the fact that you say you should give a range, from zero to – and then you can imagine a lid that the university is supposed to give itself as an autonomous university because it knows the needs best. This is a more liberal approach in this direction. And there must be control of how these study contributions are used when they are withdrawn. That's what we're trying to do. But if the study contributions are no longer available at the end, this will also survive the Freedom Party because it is not the flag question. The question is much more important to me: How is it for students, how do we deal with the resource time for students, and what is money spent at university? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6996	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7018	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Before dealing with the subject of study contributions more precisely here, I would like to say that I will not go through any point on the point of the Greens' own-initiative proposal, since it has been written very unlovingly. In some sections, the study contributions have been deleted – no! – and, in contrast, in some sections of the study contribution, a different word should be replaced. So, once remove, there's him again! And a paragraph also mentions the wrong point in which a correction is to be made. Perhaps this burden of error is also a reason why the Greens have no will to participate in a government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] However, I would like to mention a few figures which are very interesting, including the danger that I will repeat something that has already been said before. The number of beginners in the universities has increased by 24 percent since the introduction of the study fee, the study contribution to this day, by 81 percent at the technical universities. [[Abg. Oillinger: Your contribution comes from the heart, you can see!]] That's from the heart. There are currently 250 300 students in Austria. Today, 43 040 have been added, namely 33 400 and 9 640, both at the universities and at the colleges. If one connects these increasing university starting numbers with the now possible self-management of universities, a positive development at the Austrian universities and a training at these schools is evident, even if – and this is not to be concealed – the possible self-administration of some universities is not perceived as it would be possible. Unlike most universities, many universities already cooperate with the economy, and TU Graz already has a technical institute sponsored by the MAGNA Group. This is always for the benefit of the students. I would also like to maintain that those who cannot afford to study in Austria or study extremely quickly and well, are exempt from the study contributions or can resort to scholarships. However, in this case the beneficiaries should be ready – and they are required in this way too – to exploit the scholarship pot, but this has not been done in recent years. I would also like to quote the party submitting the application from a report by the university professor Dr. Pechar, the head of the Department of Higher Education Research of the Faculty of Interdisciplinary Research and Training at the University of Klagenfurt, where it is stated that it is accepted by the majority of students to make a financial contribution to their own studies, since the study will subsequently bring substantial private earnings. A recent OECD study also states that currently one study place per year costs an average of €9 352. I just converted this a little bit, that's right: At €363 study contribution, this is a share of your own training per student of 3.9 percent. With these figures in mind, I would like to ask the political groups that are in favour of abolishing the study contribution the question of why it is not reasonable for a student who can afford it – and I said earlier, those who cannot afford it and who are studying extremely well – to invest € 2 per day in his education and thus in his future, but the rest of the Austrian population without reference, perhaps also because no one's own child is going to attend the university for the entire study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7069	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. Even chosen speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7091	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear High House! Whether the request of the Greens is “lovingly” is formulated or not, I do not think anything about it, for: This request is perfectly correct in the situation: Claim for abolition of tuition fees. The Social Democratic Party of Austria has made a clear call in the election campaign for the last National Council election, and it has said: Get away with the non-social study fees! That's not what's changed. And whether unlovingly formulated or not, the application is objectively correct, and full support is given by the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Study fees are in social terms, they are disadvantaged children from socially disadvantaged families, and they mainly burden the students. And if you look at the study of the Chamber of Workers, you can see that two thirds of the students are already working, and you can also see that they indicate that the work will extend their duration. This is not just the reason why the duration of the study is extended. Students, especially at the Medical University of Vienna, for example, pay tuition fees. You have a more than double Numerus Claus: There's an entrance test, and there's an exam after a year. And this time, it was the first time that students who did the entrance exam could not be sure that they could continue to study in the second year, and that SIP 2 achieved excellent success, very good or good success. Excellent success – yes, very good success and good success – please wait! That is, students who, although they had to study under difficult conditions, were successful, are sent to the waiting room – they are still asked to check out. Students also indicate that they feel burdened by the double stress study and profession, and that is not a small proportion, which is more than 40 percent. The increasing numbers of students are looking forward to seeing us. What makes us more concerned is that the number of teachers is falling. For example, the Medical University of Vienna has been forced to reduce more than 70 doctors in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, doctors!]] I think you should know that research and teaching will not really be different at the University of Vienna and that teachers are very likely to work at the hospital bed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is just ahead of Turkey as far as the academic rate is concerned. If we want this position to continue, please continue! For the Social Democratic Party, one thing is quite clear: Study fees mean saving in the wrong place! And we demand free access to education for our children, grandchildren and future generations!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7139	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7161	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been said a lot about the deficits that this proposal has, but I would like to go a little further. They propose the abolition of § 91 by the Greens. What would the abolition of § 91 mean? – The abolition of the Abs. 7 would also mean that you will abolish university courses, these very successful university courses, because they also eliminate the collection of courses, and the universities will not be able to conduct university courses free of charge. But apparently you have no interest in the fact that professionals are offered a qualified training opportunity at universities. However, the abolition of § 91 would also mean that there would no longer be any possibility of removing student contributions from foreign students from rich countries. On the other hand, if they are studying abroad, Austrian nationals are very likely to pay contributions, partly also very high. It has already been mentioned by my predecessor, Mrs Brinek, that, in the event of the abolition of the study fee, there would be a flood of mainly German students to Austria, because there will be study fees from the summer semester of 2007, which is higher than we now have in Austria. We now know what that would mean for Austrian universities. I can't see how you want to deal with it. I can't read from your request how you really want to cover the €460 million that would cost the abolition of the tuition fees. [[Abg. Broukal: How much?]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not true!]] 460 million €,o yes! That's up to three years. This is for the period of the first benefit agreement from 2007 to 2009. If I draw a conclusion from all this, I conclude that the abolition of the tuition fees for the universities would mean: We would train more foreign students and would have less money for this. I have to say: These are really “rosy” future prospects for the universities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Above all, it would not have the effect you stress so much in your application. In your application, you particularly emphasize that we have so few students and academics in Austria and therefore need more students. I think the question of how many students in Austria should be trained is a very important one, but: Does the answer to the question have to be decisive, how many students in other EU countries are being trained? Then: You always focus on this in your request statement. In my opinion, it is rather crucial how many academics we really need, and not how many academics there are in other countries. Above all, you have to look at who in other countries is considered academic. There are also countries where compulsory school teachers and kindergartens are also considered academics. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: What a good thing!]] So you see, we're dealing with totally indifferent comparisons right now. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's our fault!]] Do you really want us to measure permanently with completely indifferent comparisons? – Besides, I can calm you down anyway: ==References== October 2007, when the educational universities are opened, we will have more academics, because then also the compulsory school teachers are academics. They're considered academics, and that's what you've got to do. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No! Under-graduates!]] In addition, I would like to ask you one more question because you stress again and again, we need more academics in Austria: Do you also say this to the graduates of teaching studies, who have been on the waiting list for years after their studies? Do you also say this to the freshly baked doctors, psychologists or biologists if you are being chauffed by them in the taxi? I find it really cynical to hustle young people in studies that do not offer a future perspective! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Teachers need jobs!]] [[Abg. Sburny: What is your consequence?]] I suggest something. For example, during the last Bureau meeting of the Steiermärkische Akademikerbund, it was discussed that the study fees could be used as a control instrument, for example by requiring higher fees for studies that are overrun than for studies that are less frequent and also offer better future prospects. In contrast to the Polish demand for the mere abolition of tuition fees, this is a constructive approach to further development and improvement of tuition fees. See: I understand this by means of a policy on matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7294	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 1/A to the Scientific Committee. [[13:34:54]] 5. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Product Piracy Act 2004 (i.d.F. BGBl. I No. 56/2004) is amended (37/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7333	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Johann Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7363	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have already adopted a unanimous decision on this request during the previous legislative period. I therefore assume that there are no concerns as to the content of this request, namely that Parliament is also informed about the implementation of the product piracy law, and that this is in principle still agreed. Why did I make this request again? – For several reasons. On the one hand, I think it is absolutely necessary – and this also applies to other legal areas – for Members of this House to be sufficiently informed about the materials they have to be found on. At present, the Product Piracy Act looks like the legal situation in such a way that the European Commission is informed about the execution, but not the Austrian Federal Council and not the Austrian National Council. I therefore believe that it is necessary to introduce such a regulation. I have already pointed out that I also regard this as necessary for other legal instruments, such as the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Under the current legal situation, the House is not receiving a report on food safety, not a report on the implementation of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. Here too, we need a reform. This also applies, of course, to the so-called legal instruments of agricultural property law, i.e. those legal entities which apply along the food chain. Why do I think that this report is so necessary for this law? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The problems in the field of piracy are increasing worldwide and across Europe. I would like to remind you of the action taken by the European Union. Commission about four weeks ago, when more than 100 containers from China were confiscated in Hamburg and sports equipment, sports equipment, textiles, watches and other piracy products were destroyed. Therefore, the European Commission is also considering a strengthening of sanctions against countries that are currently not taking appropriate measures against product pirates, in particular China. You have to say it with all the clarity: 60 percent of the European Union's piracy products come from the People's Republic of China and a large percentage from the other Asian countries. High house! Because of this situation, it is, of course, justified to think about new regulations, namely regulations that will then apply when they are concerned with commercial infringements of intellectual property rights. However, the draft directive, as it is currently present, needs to be seen very critically. I share the view of the Ministry of Justice that during the last period a very critical and absolutely correct position has been taken in a parliamentary response to this question. I personally believe that sanctions against commercial companies have to be directed against, and not against, consumers. Criminalisation of consumers must be rejected in this context with all emphasis. However, it must also be clear that patent infringements are not to be equated with normal brand piracy. On the one hand, we have the need, for example, to produce AIDS medicines for Third World countries, which are necessary, which must not be hindered by multinational corporations, and on the other hand, we have companies that produce products in China, which can also pose a risk to the lives and lives of consumers, of Europeans. Finally, one more thing: In this context, the social issues are hidden uncritically. Many of these counterfeit or counterfeit products arise with child labour and without regard to all social standards. Many workers in these countries are also deprived of the wages. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The questions about the product piracy will continue to concern us. Of course, it is a requirement for reports to be made available to us by Members. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7431	The next speech is by Mrs Fleckl. She wanted 3 minutes of speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7452	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important and correct that this proposal has been tabled again by Mr Maier in the new legislative period, because product piracy has become a huge problem worldwide, and in Austria too, we do not live on an island of the Blessed, but Austria is also affected by this issue. In the past few years, there have been several initiatives to limit the use of piracy in the EU, and Austria has also given important powers to the competent customs authorities by deciding on the product piracy law in order to ensure as early as possible the use of protective goods from the to move back. Nevertheless, there are still some unsolved points. This concerns in particular the area of shopping over the Internet, where platforms such as eBay have just become a tumbling place for dubious providers who offer their fake products there. The well-belief consumer then sometimes acquires counterfeit or illicitly manufactured goods or goods that infringe certain intellectual property rights. He pays for this article and still has to fear significant legal consequences if the customs duty withdraws the order, which happens more and more often. In 2004, more than 4 million counterfeit goods were confiscated in Austria alone. The customs authorities shall then inform the rightholder and may take action against the consumer, whether or not it has acted well-belief. There are already a number of cases in Austria where consumers who have ordered goods on the Internet were confronted with exorbitant lawyers' fees, for example because of injunction claims. The so-called buy-in on the Internet can thus have far-reaching consequences for consumers, and we have already called for Austria to be committed at European level to derogations in the case of Internet orders when it comes to the decision-making of the Product Piracy Act. An even greater problem for consumers, however, is the fake articles in which safety and health are at stake. I am particularly thinking about counterfeit medicines. At least 800 000 such medicines were seized at Europe's borders in 2005. WHO assumes that 10 percent of all medicines are not real worldwide. Fake medicines are often ineffective or cause health damage due to contaminated active substances, often even fatalities. We are therefore obliged to take all appropriate measures to protect the population in order to remove these dangerous products from the market as early as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this proposal is an annual report by the Minister of Finance on the implementation of the Piracy Act, which is submitted to the National Council so that we as legislators can respond quickly to possible new developments in this field and to problems of execution. And I hope that there will be as broad a majority as possible here in the House who support these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7500	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7522	Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to express my pleasure at the success of setting up a parliamentary committee on consumer protection and consumer protection here in this House for the next legislative period. Bad tongues could claim that this has actually happened to Mr Maier because, I think, he has made more than 80 requests in the past period in order to provide him with a suitable platform. But we are familiar with this from the preliminary work, and I believe that this is a good tool to be able to provide advice on these issues of consumer protection in the future. In this context, I should also like to point out that during the preparatory period for the National Council elections we have succeeded in drawing up a catalogue in collaboration with the Chamber of Labour, which lists the future tasks, and we expect that we can also deal with them in the next legislative period – whether it is a consumer information law that we bear in mind, or that there may be increased control instruments in the field of consumer protection, or that there is a shift from the transport sector to the animal welfare sector, or the question raised by my predecessor of the Internet platforms, which today offer shopping opportunities that are difficult to understand for consumers, or mobile phone issues – there is a platform in Lower Austria that might perhaps be indicative. There are many areas of responsibility, many areas that can be addressed here. It's a lot of work ahead of us. With the present bill or amendment to the law, we carry out in the form of a measure what is long-needed: that we respond to the challenge that has already been addressed, namely the flood of products that are today entering our country in a false form. But it's not that simple that you could say now that it's just a shift within the economic sectors. Of course, it was luxury goods that flooded our country in the 1990s as counterfeit products; today, on the other hand, it is already going into the household area, to the drug sector, car spare parts are falsified and offered and therefore difficult security situations are created. Of course, it is of course the emerging countries like China – in this year alone there were 60,000 products from Chinese production that could be picked up by the Austrian customs authorities. In Austria this means a commodity value of € 10 million per year. It is already 75 million articles across Europe that are being seized at the European external borders and that cause enormous problems for our economy: huge problems because these are relocations – out of the shadow economy – already in the economic sector. Today, specialist trade must also be warned that counterfeit products are in circulation, which can ultimately cause difficulties in the product liability field. I do not even want to point out which problems could arise under tax law. Finally, I should like to say the following: It would also be a task – and with this we also want to discuss the new Consumer Protection Committee – that perhaps at the beginning of next year we will convene a survey at parliamentary level, in which we will deal with these questions – where does consumer protection in Austria develop? - disassembly. That would be my wish for this task, which we may be able to implement through this four-party or now five-party proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7564	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7585	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As already stated in the application and also mentioned by my previous speakers, product piracy has long been no longer limited to luxury items, but affects more and more goods of daily needs. Special This is a problem for drug production or food production. In addition, the application mentioned the associated health hazard to consumers. Trade in illegal goods is booming, the number of counterfeits confiscated on EU borders has increased by more than 1,000 percent within six years. This rising trend can be seen worldwide. This is, of course, due to the improved detection rates – the legal framework conditions have been improved or created in recent years – but also there is no doubt about the deterioration of the situation, i.e. there is no doubt that more and more illegal goods are being produced. However, it seems to me worth mentioning in this context that the production of counterfeits is no longer limited to the Asian region alone, although it is of course the majority, but that a very well-organized production and distribution network has also been created in Europe and will continue to develop. It is particularly important that companies secure their products more strongly. There are various measures – microchips, holograms, safety labels et cetera. On the one hand, this has the advantage of ensuring faster and clearer verification of the authenticity of production, on the other hand, it also increases the counterfeiting or illegal production of the products and thus leads to greater unprofitability in the production of counterfeiting. It is our responsibility, of course, as politicians, to create the legal framework and to exploit all the control mechanisms available. The present proposal for an initiative and the associated legal anchoring of the reporting obligation is certainly a very important step in this direction. It has already been submitted as a four-party resolution request in the last legislative period and has also been adopted unanimously. In addition to this report, there are certainly further measures to optimise industrial property rights within the EU as well as the promotion of international industrial property rights, uniform directives to further improve customs controls at the EU's external borders and to strengthen public relations in order to clarify this problem to consumers. I would like to agree with Mr Mayer on the point that in no way do we want to criminalise consumers who unwittingly acquire counterfeit goods. I also see the problem of unsecured social standards in the production of counterfeiting. – Unfortunately, God’s social standards are not guaranteed even in the production of legal products. You could also make a lot of improvements. What I believe is clear in all cases is that we need a global strategy so that we can finally stop this fraud, which is causing enormous economic and consumer damage.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7641	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to express my pleasure at the fact that there is now a Consumer Protection Committee here in the House, so that this important matter can also be taken into account accordingly. – The interest here in the House is a rather ending will; I take note of this, but I hope that in terms of content, much can be done here. This House has itself become victims of piracy in the past legislative period. Let us remember that a small group of non-democratic legitimate persons has committed a political brand clause and has committed political piracy here under the title of ‘freedom’ – and then has received a corresponding penalty from the voters for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the same way, it is actually on the core theme of product piracy, where the ÖVP has to be blamed for its complete failure, because the ÖVP has sacrificed the Austrian interests train around train at the altar of European international interests and this Austria has subjected to the harsh wind of international globalisation train by train. I do not want you to be responsible for all developments in geopolitical policy, but you are very well responsible for Austria's being a game ball of globalisation today and it is no longer a wonder that Koperists and Fälscher Austria was flooded with goods and already reached an international volume of €500 billion. [[Abg. Murauer: Only in Austria, or what?]] However, it is not only the question of the borders that have been torn down, it is also another development that must also be called by name. They may be familiar with the German magazine “Der Spiegel” – very interesting; there are not only positive things about our economic growth inside, but also very critical, for example in a two-month-old article entitled “Globalisation – The Yellow Italians”: that a development has widened where people from China come to Europe with dire visa papers, have no interest at all in truly visiting Europe, but only in the goal of submerging here, working in forging workshops, in order not to say, being held, under inhuman conditions, where they sometimes have to work 22 hours a day and there are no worker protection regulations at all, and the work of copyists and counterfeiters must be carried out – and here in Austria the eyes closed before that. Now, I know you're finding out about the ÖVP: We have record employment, we have a record economic situation!, and if I continue in your thinking, the Earth is also a disc. – It is a very important problem that Austria’s train by train is flooded by fake brands, but on the other hand, in Europe and also in Austria, a development has long since spread, according to which copyists and counterfeiters are also active here in the country. Let me briefly quote you from the above article. The person in question is a certain Mr. Xu Qiu Lin – I don't know if I'm saying the phonetically right – who knows how to read: “Many of his countrymen... do things that are not allowed to do”. – “What?” he is asked by the “spiegel”. – “Prada and Versace...” – perhaps he also said “Plada and Velsace”, I don’t know – “... it spoke, smiled and left!” That is exactly the situation where we need to take measures to reacquire Austria to move back into design opportunities, where it is necessary to make use of protection mechanisms from the unscrupulous development of the European Union through the WTO agreements to total globalisation, where it is also necessary to see that people who come to us do so, not under the title of dire visas, but are very likely to be reintroduced here again, which makes it possible to protect the Austrian market and, above all, to set appropriate limits in the field of piracy. Nevertheless, we think it is good to initiate a reporting system on the subject of piracy. However, there is too little reporting on its own, and the correct results must also be taken into account. As we have to mention the problems with the name, we also need to address the problems that arise with China, which result from severe visa approvals, we need to deal with counterfeiter workshops in Europe and also here in Austria and to take the right measures in this area. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7707	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek, with a voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7728	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection becomes an increasingly important matter. I too am very glad that there is now a committee of its own in this House. The speakers of the individual political groups responsible for consumer protection have already worked very, very well together in the past. In our fast-moving time, in which globalisation, which we certainly cannot stop, will not be necessary in the future, it will be necessary to find mechanisms with which to limit crime, the piracy of products, whether it be for forgery or for others, whether in distant countries, other continents or within Europe. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We must introduce rules designed to shape the powers of the customs authorities. The proposal, which has now been submitted here – which has already been a four-party request in the past legislative period – ensures that there is a report; a report on the piracy of products submitted by the Federal Minister for Finance to Parliament and on the basis of which we will also proceed. In recent years, piracy has been very limited to branded products and luxury goods; now it is increasingly also goods of daily needs: Food, mobile phones, batteries as well as children's toys and car parts and even vital medicines. And if this concerns road safety, health or safety in general, it is already very worrying. That is why I believe that it is very important that we put in place measures that will take place in the future and protect the Austrian population and the European economies, the economy at all. An economy can only live if it is protected by policy in terms of security, so that it can be competitive and not undermined.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7767	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7789	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the product piracy law is not necessarily consumer-friendly has already been presented here. Economic piracy itself hurts the economy to a great extent, and I would like to illustrate this by means of a small example. A report on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance shows that in 2005 only in the field of watch and jewelry sales goods were stored worth over €31 million. – 31 million €, this is almost the loss of sales that escapes our domestic businesses. This would result in around 200 jobs. – 200 jobs, this is something that is very touching me just before Christmas and because I come from a region that is not very good economically. We have a farm with 600 jobs, and 200 jobs are to be lost due to outsourcing abroad. Now, if I make a brief replica to the first day organized self-provoking hours of the ÖVP in terms of economy and innovation, I would like to imagine how the ÖVP will explain to those workers who are afraid of their jobs in our region that everything is so great and so great. No matter whether 200 jobs are now lost due to economic crime or due to a bad economic policy: Every lost job is one too much! In this sense, we should stop the piracy of products – and for this every means is useful, of course also this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7829	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 37/A to the Financial Committee. [[14:05:07]] 6. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (National Council Election Order 1992 – NRWO) (45/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7868	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7896	Madam President. High house! I come to a request that is ideology-free, a little ambitious, and that concerns all the parties to this House. It is at the heart of the democratic events of the National Council election. Without Polish speaking about the National Council electoral system, particularly in the Federal Election Authority's compositional agents, this gives rise to a momentary reorganisation which has three basic columns on which I would like to highlight briefly. First: Instead of the Federal Government, a new, objectively constituted Senate of professional judges is to be set up as a special Senate to be appointed by the members of the Federal Electoral Authority. It is therefore intended to escape the competence of the Federal Government, which has to make its decisions based on the principle of unanimity, thereby leading to an incorrect political decision-making process – I say: Last election news: ‘Laurement of the rule of law’. – So such a condition should be removed. I should like to stress that this is, of course, completely independent of the colour teaching, which government is on the row or which opposition might be affected. This concerns, in principle, any candidate party for the coming years, as I have already said. Secondly, The Minister of the Interior should no longer be a member of the Federal Electoral Office, so that, if you allow me to express a flattering expression, you will no longer be able to pass through politics. The Minister of the Interior shall take the organisational and human arrangements required by the Federal Election Authority for the performance of the activities which he is responsible for. The officials responsible for this task, to be credited to the Ministry of the Interior, would have to be assigned to the head of the Federal Electoral Authority, who is also a professional judge. Thirdly, In the event of inconsistencies in the course of the National Council election, it is important to wait until the election is completed and, if necessary, to consider an election challenge in accordance with Article 141 of the Constitution. This is a state of life that is not good. It would therefore be a requirement to introduce something new, namely interlocutory decisions by the Federal Electoral Authority, e.g. on listings, on listings, before the election at the Constitutional Court. The proposal is as follows: The declaration of appeal should take place within a short period of eight days, and the Constitutional Court should decide within 14 days. These three pillars would benefit from a reasonable renewal, which, as I repeat, have a purely model character for a democracy organization and must be ideology-free. I would therefore like to express my broad support in this House and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7953	Mr Wittmann was next mentioned in this debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7974	Madam President. Dear High House! This proposal is correct in the trend. It may not be supported in the detailed formulation, but with the tendency we can all agree. I also believe that it would be necessary to make the selection procedure objective. We need action, we've seen that it may not work as it should. In my opinion, the tendency to step down from the Minister of the Interior is also worthy of support, and in particular – as one has really noticed the lack of a legal provision – that within the electoral process or the election itself one must be able to make decisions in good time in order not to have a state of weakness, where only after the election can be decided and then perhaps the whole election is invalid. I think we should work in this direction. I can assure you of the support of my group here, and we still have to think about the precise wording. But I think that is a matter that should be borne by all parties in this direction, because that would be a reasonable new regulation, and I hope that we will come to a broad consensus here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make another comment. On this occasion, one should not only regulate the choice and competence of the Federal Electoral Authority and the calling to the Constitutional Court, but also a clarification of the terms “electional Parties” and “political parties” so that one can have a legal regime here in the future, and not scope for interpretation, which can ultimately lead to difficulties. This is certainly in the interests of all those who take part in a election, and I believe that if you make a change, you should also regulate it. I can tell you that we are very open to such talks and will participate in every direction. In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8017	I am speaking as a friend of the honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8038	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ aims to amend the Federal Act on the National Council electoral order by this request. For me, it is far more important that, before we talk about who will be the Federal Electoral Officer in the future, who calls the Federal Electoral Authority and how quickly one can object to a decision of this kind, talk about the long-term overdue introduction of the letter election. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is in all our interest to counteract the constant decline in electoral participation. An important step would be the possibility of voting by letter in all federal elections, including in the elections of the Landtags- und Gemeinderats. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: thematic failure!]] I can remind you that 23 percent of the electorate did not use their voting rights during the last National Council elections. [[Abg. Sburny: There you have to make your own request if you want to discuss it!]] Of the 52 000 Austrians, only about 19 000 voted. This, ladies and gentlemen, requires action. The world and thus our whole society are constantly changing. People are becoming more mobile, and Austrians can travel abroad – thank God. But also for others who are on the road professionally, it is often difficult to get home on the election day. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] It is precisely these people that should be met by changing the right to vote accordingly. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of the election of the letter, it would appear that the constituency of the letter will close the constituency of the constituency and sign the affidavit on the election card. [[Abg. Oillinger: To request, please!]] The voter thus confirms that he has marked the voter personally and unobservedly. The election envelope will then be sent to the District Election Authority by post with the post office ticket and will be valid for 12 o'clock of the election day at the latest. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] This would also determine the results of the election on the same day. We from the ÖVP have been in favour of the letter election for many years, and I may add the advantages: First: The vote abroad is simplified. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] Secondly, No group of voters is excluded from voting due to their absence on the election day. Thirdly, The results of the elections will be finally determined on the election day. So far, the SPÖ has always rejected this with the argument... – This, of course, also belongs to the National Council election order and must be discussed in the overall complex. [[Abg. Oillingers: You're talking about another topic!]] [[Abg. Sburny: Of another request you did not make!]] That's why I address the choice of letters. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] I know that it is not important for you, Mr Oellinger, to respond to the wishes of the people, and so we are dealing with this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Why were you unable to make your own request...?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have outlined our proposal before, and it is also going on in other countries and would be possible to increase voting participation accordingly by means of a letter election. In recent days, there have been some signs in the media that the SPÖ attitude has changed on this subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] I very much hope that it can finally come to a consensus. In Austria we need a simple and pick-up-friendly system, but also safe from abuse. I am convinced that this would be done with the proposal of the EIA. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8213	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8234	Madam President. Mr. Freund, I take note that you either had no desire or were unable to read the request, or that you had no desire to make your own request, and you thought you were talking about what you were interested in, stop somewhere. - Okay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] We therefore do not know what position the ÖVP represents, but that may not be so important if the others agree. It is true that the situation in the Federal Electoral Authority before the National Council elections was extremely unsatisfactory and that, in connection with the division of the BZÖ from the FPÖ, some ambiguities arose which we suffered during these debates. The question is what caused these ambiguities and these debates. And I give you the right, Dr. Fichtenbauer, that a reason was certain that the government would appoint the members of the Federal Electoral Authority and, therefore, was not really surprising that the government preferred the one government partner and supported the interests of the government partner instead of acting quite objectively. In this matter, I agree with you that it would be good to consider another solution. The case with the Senate is worthy of discussion – whether it is exactly that or a similar one, we can still discuss it. The fundamental problems that have arisen have, I believe, been created by legal inaccuracies, on two levels: On the one hand, there were some ambiguities as to the legal succession – that has already been addressed by Mr Wittmann – and there was the question: Who is the successor of the FPÖ to this very difficult problem? What is the meaning of “political party” and what does “advertising party” mean? – There were also many experts who did not agree. In the second case, it was the name question whether a party in each federal state must enter under the same name, or how that is then calculated. That is, in both cases it would be a matter of changing the law, namely concreteizing it in such a way that it cannot come to completely different interpretations, as it happened this time. What I find – openly stated – a little problematic in your request is the assumption that the officials had acted politically, party-politically. You were there, you have experienced it: three opinions from lawyers – four opinions. And then to advise the officials that they'd made something party-political there, I think I'm a little exaggerated. Not even we were quite sure how the whole thing should go out. I think the officials did their job well there. The only intervention was that in relation to the names which, in my opinion, was somewhat upset and not completely correctly reported, but in principle, the officials tried very much to keep an overview of this whole confusion somehow. From my point of view, what you are proposing is one of those two amendments which we should introduce accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8295	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8317	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The applicant has started here a discussion on the National Council's electoral system – that is a good thing. In the Constitutional Convention, we have already discussed very detailed changes to the right to vote. I believe that one of my previous speakers from the ÖVP has also helped this debate to discuss the choice of letter. We could also discuss the electoral age, we could also discuss the issue of the right to vote on and for ourselves, also about the assignment of the mandates, because one of these whole... – We can also discuss the local boards, colleague Ollinger – very well! [[Abg. Oillinger: About the town boards!]] By the way, this is a good indication, because now that there seems to be a new coalition, there may be an agreement on this important question. We would have been very far. They didn't want to agree. We would have had a permanent solution, but it failed on the veto of the SPÖ for party political reasons. Maybe we can do that too. Perhaps we will also create a modernisation of the right to vote in various areas. For example, one takes part in the third investigation procedure, in the assignment of mandates, when one reaches sufficient votes in a constituency for a ground mandate, in the third level one takes part, if one is across the border of 4 per cent, but if one had sufficient votes in a country, in a federal state, for a land mandate, but not in a constituency and not throughout the country, that is not enough for the assignment of mandates. There are a number of things that can be discussed. You can also discuss the Federal Electoral Authority. Mr Fichtenbauer, I do not like one thing: They immediately made those “slenders ” that are still wrong for that. It can be rightly discussed that this strange distinction between the electoral party, the political party, the party represented in the parliament, in the strength of the represented party, has in truth led to various problems and differences in interpretation. One has to talk about the fact that this distinction, which may have had a historical meaning, is once changed. The historical legislator wanted to express that, in the end, in various areas, the parliamentarian, the candidate and not so much the political party should be appointed. This has just led to a grey zone, to difficulty in interpreting and listening. You yourself mix this in your reasoning. It seems that the difference is not so clear to you as to what you say regarding the Federal Electoral Authority. Especially at the Federal Electoral Authority need It is not to complain because, as I believe, it is quite contrary to our opinion, but it has made clear decisions – in some cases, for example in the listing place – for you. One could now again criticise the independent courts which, for example, have prohibited us from applying for our name, which was also assigned to us by the national electoral authorities. This is actually a democratic problem that, although you are allowed to register with a list name, you must not apply for the list name in an election movement. These are things to criticize here – but we said: All right, sponge over it! Let's look into the future! But if you write that the BZÖ has become a legal successor to the FPÖ, I'll tell you that's wrong. That's simple and just wrong! The parliamentary club, which formed itself, was also regarded as a successor to the previous parliamentary club. But that's a serious difference. This is precisely the difference between the electoral party, which is represented in the Members who are candidates on a list, and the political party. You don't make this distinction either. We would find ourselves in this distinction, because then many of the problems we have had in the last few months would have been solved. Apart from that, the composition of the electoral authorities, as it is now, is quite right in my opinion. I do not think that it is justified for officials to assume that they are caught. The judges are represented accordingly and have also given the result of the various decisions in many areas – I say again: to our burdens. I think that was quite correct. If one accuses anyone of lack of correctness, then we have to take our own nose, because we – the parties ultimately – nominate the representatives. I thought it was wrong to create legal clarity, but immediately pour out the whole child with the bath without the real problem, namely the distinction between the electoral party and the political party. I hope that then, when we finally have a government again, all the announcements will also be implemented that, for example, in the great constitutional reform, which we all have been waiting for for so long and which we have been working on for so long – unfortunately, because you were still in opposition at the time and were not ready to vote – the question of modernising the right to vote will also be addressed. Unlike you, we will also cooperate constructively in the opposition, and if there is something going on, we will also give our consent. But we'll see.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8374	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8396	Madam President. High house! Mr Scheibner, we also have – where did he go? – quite constructively cooperated, a number of laws have also been passed with our votes in our time of opposition, but there is no question at all that, in the run-up to the 2006 National Council election, of course, confusion among voters has ruled on the question of the extent to which the BZÖ should be assigned a seat in the Federal Election Authority and which has been justified by the government by the fact that this was somehow the legal successor of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Lentsch: He's sitting in his place!]] This is a debate that has ended. But many people have spoken to me because they have meant that the Federal Government is unable to prepare the elections properly. It is really a little problematic that there were different processes, for example, in the designations on the national electoral lists. In particular, I was very uncomfortable with the following: In particular, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior have in part been called dilettants, and in part they have been accused of being traitors and others more. I really think this is a process that cannot be accepted, and I think you have to reject it. I think the officials have worked very well, and they have to be thanked for that. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever happened: You should learn from mistakes. Mr Fichtenbauer's request and his colleagues are to be seen as a contribution to the debate, a debate that is to be held in a meaningful manner. I understand the course of the FPÖ and I understand that it proposes changes on the basis of the events. We will be very serious about this issue in the Committee. I believe that Mr Wittmann has already indicated that we are simply concerned that we may not have to create an institution of our own, for which we must at least be, that there must be new forms of legal protection and that we must consider the extent to which the Constitutional Court can already make the appropriate clarifications in the current electoral procedure. I think this is an important question. Above all, it is about the people having clarity and that the candidate parties and candidates also know clearly what is going to happen. I can only tell my friend that he can be assured that we will be very committed to ensuring that the right to vote comes from the 16-year-olds. We will make a great effort in this regard. I think this is at least as important as other areas. My friend has apparently withdrawn, but we are still interested in hearing what the ÖVP says about this request. As the speeches by Mr Grossruck and Mr Murauer are still following, I am hopeful that they will explain this to us and not give us a renegotiation on the choice of letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8446	The next item is the speech by Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8487	Madam President. Dear Karl Ollinger! High house! It is clear to everyone sitting here that the right to vote and the objective implementation of an election is one of the highest democratic goods. We see in countries which are in development, where we are going as voters, how difficult they are to have a right to vote, to stand up to objective criteria, let alone in the preparation of the electoral list, in the counting of votes and so on to the standards. But we see a very positive development. Since we are in Austria thank God, I must say that much further already, although it is always to be questioned: Is there anything to change? In my opinion, the FPÖ's request would be a classic occasion legislation out of this one case, and I think we should not make it that simple that we say: Now we are changing that! because there are many other wishes to the National Council election order too. My friend Karl Freund has already mentioned it: For example, how does the choice of letters look? – It belongs to a whole package discussed and, in my opinion, also introduced. It is a matter of discussing the SPÖ’s call for “selecting from 16” and we know in surveys of young people that this is not their main issue and its main problem. – But you also need to talk about it. There is discussion about modern forms of voting, about e-voting, but above all about the choice of letters. Not only does this belong to debate, but it finally belongs to an introduction, because it is not a matter of keeping many Austrian citizens away from their right to vote through organizational or legal measures. It has just become apparent that the form of voting abroad, as it was in the past – where one needed a witness and had to go to some Austrian representations – did not work as smoothly and without complaint as the legislator might have wanted. It's very complicated. We'd rather make it easier and introduce the choice of letters. Let's simplify it completely and let's not withdraw part of the Austrians' right of vote! It goes on: As the electorate is managed, as the communities can carry out administrative simplifications, one has to question as well as whether it makes sense to have the electoral index imposed for at least 4 hours a day for ten days, including on Saturday and Sunday, where the experience shows that on Saturday and Sunday, no human being comes to pass that we only produce bureaucracy – no longer. We also need to discuss this. So there are many approaches in a common package to be discussed to bring about changes. There you have to discuss everything, reveal everything, but an occasion legislation, as it now includes this proposal, is not the targeting thing, as I believe. There's a whole package tied up. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude: Christmas is the feast of desire and peace. I could imagine Mr Cap imagining his Christmas wishes: I wish, dear Christkindlein, let's be Federal Chancellor soon. And send us all the money we lack for our wishes. I wish that to the Christian Child and you, Mr Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8527	Again a verse we heard, And no call to intercede bothered him. Next to the pult very big Mr Brosz. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The application clearly has a legitimate background, for as the electoral authorities have stated, as the public debate on the decision-making issues: Who's the successor party? Who may be represented in the Federal Electoral Authority?, has run, politics – I believe – has done nothing really good. The sense would have to be that there are, first and foremost, clear rules in the laws. There is no need for the Federal Electoral Authority to interpret the party's right to send it to the Federal Electoral Authority. This can be clearly defined in the law. The problem arose from these different forms of campaigning party and political party. Even when it came to the question of the post-occupying of the People's Procuratorate, this was not all so clear: There too, it would be quite clear and clear to determine which party has the opportunity to send. I think the first thing we really need to look at is that in these areas we create clarity in the laws! There will always be an election challenge, but that is something Parliament can do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the second point, which I am missing from this request, our clubman has tabled a request on the question of the National Council electoral order and the possibility to appoint the parties. That is not the case either. The big issue was then: Can the Federal election proposal differ from the country's election proposals? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here you have experience!]] Even then, it would be useful to create clarity and not to deal with it afterwards – up to the question whether a party that has then had 4,11 percent – I believe – may also fall from Parliament by a decision of the Constitutional Court. No one has filed this complaint or this election challenge in this form, precisely because of this problem. However, it cannot be so difficult to clarify in the law: Can he distinguish or can he not distinguish? – To this end, our proposal was to make clear that federal election proposal and country elections proposals in the future – whatever the past was! – should be identical and make no sense of this distinction so that these issues can then be separated. Third point – on the current request here: It is safe to discuss the compositions of those who are entitled to vote. One should – I believe – just not be of the opinion: If there are sent judges, all of this is clear. I think the four opinions of the two judges included eight opinions. What came from there was very difficult to handle, not to mention a common line. To believe that just because there are judges there can no longer be an election challenge, we believe that due to the experience of the last election campaign, it should exist for a very exaggerated hope. An election challenge is always possible, you will not be able to take it out. The difficulty which the application has in particular is the following: Can the Constitutional Court be recruited in ongoing proceedings, can one go there and ask for decisions? – We believe that it will simply not be possible to do so, because the entire term run will be opened. There is the decision of the State Electoral Authority which can be challenged by the Federal Electoral Authority. Then, eight days after the request, one has time to lodge a complaint with the Constitutional Court, and this one has two weeks to decide. – These are 33 days in the entire term, which would be possible. Only: The Constitutional Court does not decide, it refers back to the Authority! The Authority takes a new decision – then the possibility of the opposition period begins again. Even if you leave it out and say it can't be affected any more: 33 days are not feasible in an election process, that is not possible from the term run! That keeps the electoral day simple and simply not! – The electoral day must be followed after a certain period of time, namely after that in the Federal Election Authority. The focus should therefore be made clear: The laws must be as clear as possible, the uncertainties should be removed as far as possible. For the time limits of the Constitutional Court: By the way, it is not really clear how fast it needs to be. This too would have been the question in retrospect of considering an election challenge: Is there a binding deadline? – That would make sense, because otherwise the National Council is also bound. To clarify this in advance will, we think, be difficult, but we will talk more about it in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8613	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8634	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Of course, it is necessary to discuss the right to vote and also to propose a change, and I think that the individual positions provided for in the application should be discussed accordingly. If Mrs Sburny said that she did not know what the Austrian People's Party would like to do in connection with the letter-election, then I should like to point out the discussion of the new Constitution. Maybe you'll look up to see what ideas the Austrian People's Party has for the election of letters. [[Abg. Sburny: What the Lord friend...! You didn't listen!]] I think it is true that in this context we are also talking about the election of letters, namely that over many years we have missed the opportunity to introduce the election of letters in our country, that it was not possible to bring the Social Democratic Party to the election of letters. Ladies and gentlemen! The non-electors were already the third strongest party in the last National Council election – if you want to call it that. That means that more and more voters feel prompted not to vote, but are also on the go. And we must note that in this mobile society more and more people are on the move, are not at the place of election, and that these people often cannot choose. If you are a municipal councilman and you are in the other place, you can in the individual Don't choose a municipality – you know it! Or if you stay in another country in the country election, you cannot choose and are excluded. – And that can't be it! In many other comparable countries with similar democratic systems or perhaps even less democratic relationships, not only has the choice of letters been made for years, but also the electronic possibility of e-voting, already in testing – and that in Great Britain, France and Switzerland! There are opportunities to give more space to democracy and to make it easier for voters to vote in a society as we find it today. If, on the one hand, we are unable to make it easier for our fellow citizens to exercise the right to vote and to remove the obstacles to this possibility, that is, on the one hand, On the other hand, if we are to eliminate difficulties for Austrian citizens, we cannot call on foreigners who are not citizens to vote – that is, in no relation! For many years the proposal of the Austrian People's Party has been here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about electoral reform and renewal in this context, I do not wish to fail to ask you to finally stop the abuse, not to be able to vote by letter.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8672	Thank you, honourable Member. They were the last to be on the speaker list for 6. Agenda item. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I give the proposal 45/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[14:40:58]] 7. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law, with a monthly support for women who are 60 years old. have completed the year of life when recognition is given for the education of their children (31/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8716	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8744	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are still women in Austria who are over 60 years old and are not pensioners. These are at least 55,000 to 170,000 women, depending on the type of reading and the type of category. We have justified 55 000 applicants who do not actually have pension schemes because they have raised children at a very difficult time, because they have eventually raised our parent generation – if I may say so from my wait – and this with great personal commitment. We have at least improved this decades-long social policy deficit, which has existed, in the last pension reform, by making it possible for children to be raised during retirement periods and to improve the situation here, thanks to the proposal of our Minister for Social Affairs, Ursula Haubner. But we have the past regarding the problem that we have not yet taken into account the educational work of over 60-year-old women who belong to the post-war generation. It is about women who have really done great things, who have raised children and have ultimately got nothing but a disadvantage, namely, because they have invested their entire time, have invested a lot of energy to raise our parent generation, so women who have not been able to do anything to secure retirement periods. In Carinthia, this model already existed in 2005, where there has been a single payment of €150 for the payment of the so-called mother's fee for mothers over 60 who do not have a pension. By a year later, by mid-2006 already 11 000 payouts had already gone over the stage, so to speak. You have to imagine what that means. I myself was in Carinthia once, when some scenes came to be touched, when women who have nothing at all who don't even know how to finance their daily routine – that's really incredible! –, this one-time payment of 150 € was received. One cannot imagine what it is for a ray, for a joy among these women that they are being helped. We believe that this would be a solution for all of Austria. As has been said, it concerns 55 000 women, if we do so in the manner set out in our proposal. These women are expected to receive 150 € twelve times a year. Of course, they must be Austrian citizens – not a question – who raised at least one child. The cost of this would be €100 million. If one compares this with the figures that are now “transpiring”, namely, figures relating to the cost of basic income, to an unemployed basic income or to other good things, where it goes up to 600 000, 700 000, 800 000, yes up to a billion euros, then one must say: In comparison, this is an amount – before all in view of the good economic situation and the sprinkling tax revenue we have heard this morning – which must always be worth the performance of these women in order to help them with this €150 per month to better compete with their livelihood. I say out of my conviction: This is not an alms and not social aid, but a social commitment to these women who have ultimately given us something in their lives. For this they should now also receive a corresponding honor and thanks from society for the time, affection and strength they have given to our parent generation, and this in a very difficult time, in the time of reconstruction. We believe that a solidarity, a social society – and I am particularly saying this now in the direction of SPÖ, who always claims it – cannot simply exclude a whole group of women from the income of old age. It would therefore be highly decent and also law-making to introduce this measure. It can be financed, it is quickly feasible. If we could decide on them in Parliament, it would already apply for next year. This would make many, many women a wonderful Christmas gift, probably Christmas on the 24th. It's not like we're all going to be here on December.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8801	The next item is Mrs Silhavy. She wants the clock set to 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8822	Madam President. High house! Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, as a woman, when I was listening to you, I was deeply affected. You spoke of the great achievements these women have provided – I give you the right – but you want to disburse these women with 150 €, a grant they do not even have a legal claim! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Monthly!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Added monthly!]] This is a typical alms policy you are doing, according to the motto: Whoever is good and we like, he gets alms! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They didn't get anything from you!]] This is still to be done in accordance with the budgetary appropriations available. That's what I'm asking myself: What to do You're in truth with that? – Making in truth The following shall be added: They try to feed this group of women with very little. And I really think that's a scandal. This has nothing to do with social policy and social warmth at all. This is the opposite: That's cynicism pure to these women! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Here, I think, we are much further with our model of basic basic security, where we are trying to give at least a certain minimum to every person, especially in old age, who has no way of achieving his own income. This should be needs-oriented and not, so to speak, with the casting pot. At least those people who need it should be given the minimum. I would very much like... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler talks to an employee.]] - Maybe you could listen to me, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, it's not quite "unskill" what I'm saying here! – Well, okay, don't be, don't worry; you can read it if you're really interested. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler continues to talk to an employee.]] You, Mr Westenthaler, should consider what the basic need-orientated assurance you so gladly consider to be “smarotness” for those women you have spoken about would mean – that is, to be able to live at last. But you can't live in luxury for a long time; we all don't need to discuss it because we all don't have to get along with so little money. But this would be a completely different approach, based on the fact that one would have a legal claim and that one would not always have to live in uncertainty and depend on well-being. This is not our way, but we want rights instead of alms. And I think these women would be entitled to these rights. If you're talking about these women having disadvantages because they raised children, I have to tell you: Unfortunately – but that does not only belong to the past! You don't need to praise the pension reform and the billing of child rearing times here. But look at the extent to which women are still disadvantaged in the labour market today! Look at how the economy behaves towards women! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Look at how you have behaved, for example, yourself and personally, Mr Scheibner, in the desire for women's people! You have clearly shown what you think of women! And today you're showing what you're doing to the women. – They give them 150 € a month for a great job and say: That is enough, thank you, dear women, for that we are good and gracious to you! I have to say: That is an exasperation – and I am sorry that women too have this view! I understand that if you want to say that you want to help individuals. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are embarrassing!]] No, you're embarrassing! Very embarrassing! And I would like to tell women what you have said, because that is embarrassing because social cynicism is pure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A embarrassing appearance is that, to the no longer going!]] I like to be embarrassing, as opposed to you, because I prefer to be embarrassing than to be cynical, and I prefer to love people rather than despise them, my colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't give women anything! Not for decades!]] They say that basic security is something for the social hammock. We say that is the minimum we grant to these people. And I have to tell you honestly: We should even work together to get over this need-oriented in order to have at least one basic guarantee for age. But you can't even talk about it, because you're not even able to listen. That's the most embarrassing thing at all! I wonder what you're sitting in here for if you can't even listen to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With so much nonsense, it's hard for me to listen to you! With so much nonsense, what is being softened there!]] Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, it's left to you what you feel like nonsense or non-unsense, but: You should nevertheless be able to listen, because that should be the minimum that a Member of this House can do. If he can't, he's not in the place anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They've been outside for 8 minutes and haven't said anything yet!]] But the voters have already told you where you are in the square, not in the house, but in the first place elsewhere. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now I know why you have 8 minutes of speech! So you won't say anything in 8 minutes!]] Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, I told you what we thought of your request. I told you what this actually means by social policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't want money for the women!]] No, no, no, We want more money for the women. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So far they haven't gotten any!]] We want the women to have a fair share – and not that the women are fed with alms, as you do, because that is cynical. The women didn't deserve it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We will have the opportunity in the Committee to discuss this further. But I am glad and grateful that you have revealed yourself today. We can continue to tell the women this. But I suppose you haven't chosen them in a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9058	Mr Westenthaler, I would just like to point out that in XVIII. GP for the term “unsense” has been issued a call for order. I do not want to do this today, but I would ask you to be moderate in the future. Thank you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That would be an honorary title for the woman!]] Would you like to speak again? Then, please. I will pay very close attention to what you say. The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9089	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I say it quite openly to you, ladies and gentlemen: I almost feared that the sugar distribution would continue. One requires a double pension increase, as we can afford, the other suddenly discover the children – and the BZÖ now discovers the women over 60. I think we have decided a lot since 2000, very much for the families, for the women and, above all, for the mothers. I am thinking here, for example, of the childcare allowance that Mr Westenthaler referred to earlier, namely the childcare allowance for all, who now also receive the students, the students, the self-employed, the housewives and the farmers. – Red-Green voted against. We have significantly improved the child education time for women's pensions, and we have made it easier for women to receive their own pension. The red-green women's representatives have talked about it for years – we have decided that we have implemented it! Of course, we would all wish ourselves much more, especially for mothers – and also especially for mothers over 60. I myself am a woman's representative in my federal state. Our clubman Willi Molterer recently made a very, very original statement, which I very much like and which I would therefore like to repeat: Unfortunately, our budget is not a banknote of God, which is filled in heaven and which we can permanently empty here on earth. [[Abg. Oils: Original!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rada: Not a good statement!]] We have spent seven years in order to put our budget in order in any way. We must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we pay €7 billion each year in interest for our debts. If we had available these €7 billion, we could cover all the desires in any form. We have debt of 160 billion euros. We must be aware of that. But that the BZÖ leaves this consolidation course really hurts me a little, but that's how it is now. One requires 800 € basic insurance, the others require 150 € per month for women over 60. And there's really no end to it. But, unfortunately, we are not here at “Wish you something!” but at the National Council, and I can only repeat what I have already said at the pension debate: Of course you can wish yourself a lot, ladies and gentlemen, but whether that is also – I don't understand you! – can be financed, this is the question here. [[Abg. Oellinger: These were loud repetitions you made, Mrs. Lentsch!]] That is why I can only call on all the political groups here in the House to stop this race. It's not honest because it's not financeable. This request will be allocated to the Committee, and there this request will certainly be discussed in detail, and if there is a majority, I should be right. So, Mr. Ollinger, now you can talk to me, now I hear you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9190	The next item is Mrs Mandak's speech. After their speech, we will come to the debate on deadlines. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9211	Madam President. High house! Mrs Lentsch! Mr Westenthaler! They expect it to be a great merit that due to the pension reform, child rearing times are now included in the pension calculation. But they hide elegantly that you have raised the calculation period to 40 years and thus created a very, very great disadvantage for women – and no improvement. You have to say that quite clearly once! You don't tell the truth if you pretend that this pension reform has brought women something positive. That's just not true! Mr Westenthaler, you say that this “mother’s board” is not a alms that it is an obligation. Why, so I ask you to write Then, in your application in paragraph 1 – the sentence begins at the front, and then what I am quoting now – does it come:... ‘on the basis of the available funds a monthly support will be granted’? I repeat: “according to the existing means ”! In paragraph 2, the following point is added: ‘There is no legal basis for granting the monthly support.’ If you say, It is an obligation!, then make the law so that it is mandatory. You do the exact opposite: You're making an alms out of it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No!]] You make a can-determination: If we have enough money, then you'll get the money if we don't have it, good women, then you've had bad luck, then you'll look through your fingers! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So far they haven't gotten it!]] So far they have not got it, but you have to ask yourself if you make a new law, for whom you do it and for what purpose. You yourself write in your own reasoning – I quote –: "Many women who were 60 years old. They have already exceeded their age and do not have sufficient pensions from own resources’, which is intended to cover it. ‘There is a vital social interest in granting these under-supplyed women a monthly grant.’ What you do is: They do not give women of old age a grant, but they want to grant Austrian mothers an allowance at age, namely women who do not have pensions, women who live on social assistance, who are poor and live alone. I ask you: What about the other women? I also ask you: What about the other men? What about those people who are old and poor and who now have no legally binding right to a pension in Austria? I'll tell you: The answer to this problem – and we have this problem; these people are there, and they really don't know how to call them tomorrow – so the answer to this problem can only be a basic pension for everyone, just as our green pension model provides, with a legal claim for everyone in Austria – but not a request like yours, who creates new injustice, creates new ambiguity in the legal field. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is a heating grant for this!]] This cannot be the solution to this problem, but the solution can only be a clear legal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9284	Would you like to speak for one or two minutes now, Mrs Rosenkranz, or should we interrupt the session, and do you make your speech? What's better with you? [[Abg. Rosary: Please?]] We have a deadline debate at 3 p.m. I would suggest that I interrupt the sitting for a minute, and your speech, Mrs Rosenkranz, will then take place following this deadline debate. Agreed? Thank you. I'm interrupting the session for a minute. At 3 p.m. we continue with the short deadline debate on Mr Pirklhuber's motion for a resolution 55/A(E).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9322	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:56]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9350	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7 on the agenda and we are entering into a brief debate on the request made by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, the Agriculture and Forestry Committee for reporting on application 55/A(E) for legal anchoring of the Austrian rural development programme 2007 to 2013 ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are now going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or from state secretaries who have been notified should not last more than 10 minutes – but nobody is there anyway. I call Mr Pirklhuber. I'll give it to him for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9384	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This deadline proposal is really a very, very urgent one, because it concerns the very legal protection it needs for such an essential programme that will enter into force in Austria and Europe for the years 2007 to 2013. I'd like to explain briefly what it's all about. It is a question of the European agricultural policy in the second pillar, namely in rural development, having adopted a financial framework of almost €70 billion in 2005 and of more than €7 billion available for rural areas for the 2007 to 2013 programming period in Austria; this represents an annual amount of more than €1 billion. Our concern now is to ensure that legal certainty is finally created for this essential part of the agricultural policy, which is therefore also this deadline proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! How has this been regulated so far? – To date, this has been regulated in the framework of a special directive. A special directive is nothing but a resolution within the framework of private administration; it is a implementation based on EU law but not legally regulated in Austria. And this is our core criticism of how this programme has been implemented so far. What are the consequences? – There is no legal certainty for the farmers concerned – Mr Grillitsch, you know that – because in cases of problem the farmers are going directly to the civil court and the AMA must complain there. In the last period, in recent years, we have had some cases where farmers had to sue the AMA before civilian courts. There is no binding notice that they would receive, there is no obligation and no obligation to disburse environmental support in Austria. And there is no democratic parliamentary control of these programmes at all – which, in my view, is much more crucial. The rural development programme (EAFRD) has so far been decided by Parliament in the ministerial staff, the representatives of interests, and this cannot and must not be continued in this way. The rights of the social partners, which usually come from legal proceedings, are also excluded here – and that cannot be it! That's one of the central things: The development of rural areas must be laid down and decided by law here in Parliament. How is this regulated in other countries, ladies and gentlemen? You might say it's done this way everywhere – but it's not like that! In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, there is a federal law on “improvement of agricultural structure and coastal protection”. This is the federal framework law, and in the countries of the Federal Republic of Germany it is implemented into individual country laws. Even in Luxembourg, there is a framework for rural development, not only in Austria. That's incredible! That can and must not stay like that! Why won't it stay like that? In this context, I would like to refer to two points, two of which were made by the Constitutional Court. In December 2005, the Constitutional Court repealed the animal premium regulation 2000, and in October 2006, the Milk Guarantee Regulation was also repealed by the Constitutional Court – with the argument that it is not sufficient to refer to EU law. This is not enough, but it takes a legal basis in Austrian law to ensure that implementation can be carried out properly. – That is exactly what rural development is all about, ladies and gentlemen. 1 billion a year is not a cardboard stalk, because it is really about significant amounts that have to be used, of course. – And with this we are in the criticism of the programme presented so far. In this context, it should be noted that representatives of the Section for Agriculture and Rural Development (ÖVP) are: The programme is still not officially submitted, and we all know that it will take months for it to be decided in joint negotiations with the EU Commission. That's why we have enough time. We have this time, and we must start to finally develop this framework law – better today than the day before, Mr Grillitsch. That is why we also call for this deadline so that we can discuss it in the Committee, as far as possible, in the middle of January. The strategies presented are anything but ambitious. An example: In organic farming, the strategy paper calls for an objective of 18 percent for this new programme; There will be 18 percent organic farming in Austria in 2013. 360 000 hectares are required in a chapter of action. Mr Pröll, Minister of Agriculture, is not present at this debate by chance, because: Today, he has issued an issue on the current food report, according to which we already have 15 percent organic farming in Austria and already run organic farming on 360 000 hectares in Austria. This means that in the target catalogue presented so far by the Minister there is nothing else but that the status quo should be preserved – and nothing more! In this example, you can see how little ambitious this area is being pursued, how necessary it is to have a sufficient discussion in this House. The second point, which is particularly problematic for us, is the intensification aspect of this programme. From our point of view, the programme presented is an intensification pact – for several reasons: First of all, the Austrian nitrate action programme fully reweights the fertiliser values, which covers the increase in animal husbandry in certain holdings between 30 percent and 150 percent – even in an agricultural environment programme. We don't think that's acceptable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Secondly, There are for the first time support for the integrated beet cultivation. This was an area which so far has not received environmental support, has not received funds from the agricultural environment programme. Suddenly, the beet farmers get 150 € per hectare of support. Or: the floor-to-floor collection is suddenly supported by 1 € per cubic meter. [[Abg. Scheibner: You talk 10 minutes, that's against the agreement!]] Mr Scheibner, this is not to beg or to laugh, but it is a very serious matter. And there is – which is very crucial in terms of distortion of competition – no ceiling on investment in processing companies with over €200 million in turnover and up to 750 employees, ladies and gentlemen! The funding rates are between 20 percent and 40 percent, and there are no upper limits! I just wanted to take this short notice so that you can see that there is also massive criticism of content and not only formal legal questions. Let us perhaps also come to the financial aspect. The financial allocation under this programme is one that greatly reduces the environment. We have cuts of up to € 130 million in the agricultural environment programme. 130 million € less than before! In 2005, 653 million were spent, with a maximum of 524 million annually in the future. [[Abg. Grill: You also know why!]] Mr Grillitsch, there is a cover of 80 percent, but this cover will not be used in this program. [[Abg. Grill: Exactly!]] There would be further measures to improve this dosage of environmental promotions, for example through re-translation, through modulation from the first pillar. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Up to 20 percent, Mr Grillitsch. We have thought this over and over again, and this is currently being seriously discussed in Germany. Finally, I would like to say that there is an area that is particularly bitter for us. It is bitter that Minister Pröll, who has always said at lip confession level: Yes, free from genetic engineering, we are all fighting together!, in the agricultural environment programme, has not ensured that non-genotechnic seed must be used. It is logical that this freedom of genetic engineering is set out in an environmental programme for the protection of biodiversity. You can see from these examples how urgently necessary it is that such a law is not done behind closed doors or finally in the ministry, but that it gets a direction through a framework law, an orientation towards more social justice, towards more ecological accuracy. Finally, I would like to say: Of course, we have worked intensively within the framework of the accompanying events, we have brought in our topics, but in the end it also needs legal standardisation. That's why I'm looking for you: Support It is our proposal for a deadline so that a genuine framework law can finally be adopted in the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9477	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time for the following speakers is 5 minutes. The next item is the speech by Mr Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9507	Madam President. I still had the first speaker list in mind, and on it the name Grillitsch stood in front of me. [[Abg. Grillisch: But Gaßner comes in front of Grillisch!]] All right, I'll be You say, Mr Grillitsch, that Gaßner always comes before Grillisch. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber's request is before us and is well justified in substance. We have always called for this: more involvement by Parliament, not by Parliament – unfortunately, nothing has happened! The fact is that this Green Pact, i.e. this rural development programme for the period 2007 to 2013, is currently in Brussels and is being negotiated there. And the problem, Mr Pirklhuber, is: If we now call on it and say that we want to have this package back so much and then put it on a legal basis, once again reinvigorate from me and discuss it again, then the question is how it continues in general in 2007. I have been talking to people who are currently negotiating this issue in Brussels, and these have told me: Now it's actually too late to discuss it! What do we do if this package comes back approved? Do we want to make some further correction and send it back to Brussels to obtain an approval there? – So the In fact, it is not possible to do so anymore. We will see how seriously the ÖVP makes its promises – there is very soon to negotiate the market order – and how willing it is to define how it goes by law; what is also required by the Constitutional Court. We will see how ready the ÖVP is to do so and what these promises are worth giving us in this context again and again. It is clear, of course, that the European Court of Justice is concerned, particularly with regard to rural areas, if it considers that agricultural aid is being used here and that the second component, namely the development of rural areas, is going down. This is clearly stated in a report by the European Court of Auditors: “This strong concentration on agriculture is threatening the achievement of the other global objective of the Regulation (performance of a contribution to economic and social cohesion of rural areas),...” So European institutions also recognise that this path taken by the EIA is not the right one. But when this Green Pact comes back, we still have the opportunity to consider how we can distribute the funds. That is why we see ourselves today – even for the reason that farmers will not be there without funding next year – unable to agree to this deadline, but are very excited about how the ÖVP will behave in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9550	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9572	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually very glad that Mr Gaßner really spoke in front of me, because otherwise it would have been called, Mr Gaßner speaks the language of the farmer. Landes. It is de facto, as Mr Gaßner said, that we are late enough, Mr Pirklhuber, to come to Parliament with this request. I am opposed to it and do not leave it in the room if it is claimed that we in Parliament have not dealt with the CAP reform in detail, as well as with rural development. I say quite stone and clear: Federal Minister Pröll has informed in detail several times, many times, both in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs and also in a subcommittee on the reform of the CAP. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that some security has now come into this discussion, including political security, as a framework condition for farmers, especially as regards this rural area, because if I recall the discussions last year, the last one and a half years to this rural area, where the speech of cuts of 50 percent and more was, I must say: This is actually a great success, as Josef Pröll and Wolfgang Schüssel succeeded in Brussels, because they were able not only to negotiate much but much more funds for Austria! – A great success by Josef Pröll, Wolfgang Schüssel and his team! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Pirklhuber! Don't let's get people insecure now! No one has told us that, no one has really told us that. Let us look over the borders, and the example of Germany is a bad example, dear Mr Pirklhuber! The colleagues in Bavaria have exactly 50 percent less available for rural development than we do in Austria. As an agricultural representative, I do not want to have to explain to the miners that there is 50 percent less mining funding. I do not want to explain to those 80 percent of farmers who voluntarily participate in an environmental programme with 90 percent of the area, that there is 50 percent less for the environmental programme. And I do not want to have to explain to the many people in rural areas who are dealing with regional projects that they have 50 percent less support for projects. Let us leave the church in the village, Mr. Pirklhuber! It is a good programme, which is on track, which is located in Brussels, which has to be recognised in Brussels, and we hope that it will return to Austria as soon as possible. Let us also deal with a market regulation law in spring, where there are some things to repair! We have this task to do here in Parliament, but the proposal here is, in fact, a well-founded request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9626	Next item is the report by Mrs Zwerschitz. Legal speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9647	The topic is “Agricultural Development Programme”. I can't remember that we talked about the budget or that we're now distributing 1 billion or something else. It is about € 1 billion a year, € 1 billion, which should be distributed properly, should be allocated strategically, because it is about food, because it is about the public, because it is about information. It is true that a special directive has no legal status; you know that just as well as we all here. That means that it is absolutely nothing binding on this directive. The papers have already been delivered to Brussels. – That may be already, but they have not yet been officially filed. Civil servants are constantly changing. The fact that the officials are discussing this is also true, but that the project is already so on track that there are no longer any processing options, is simply not true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] Yes, I'm sorry, it's not right! It is important that the objectives are assured that what is contained in this programme really gets a legal obligation. That is not the case right now. At the moment, it is a beautiful programme, a so-called special directive, which could be brought up to date in civil courts in the event of a dispute. Farmers deserved to have a legal basis. This would only be done by means of a framework law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is this rural development programme so important? Why is it so important to us? – One of the important points for us is: Freedom of genetic engineering as a lip commitment has already occurred in this Parliament, I do not know how many, at least in x speeches, have occurred. The programme, which will substantially control our agricultural policy in the period 2007 to 2013, is not a joke for the freedom of genetic engineering. It simply does not happen, although it corresponds to the desire of the population and the regions. What we very much welcome and what we have almost enthusiastically adopted is that there is finally a gender-friendly way of speaking in this programme, that there is a female quota. Of course, 33 percent do not really correspond to the 50 percent share of women in the population, but it is a good approach anyway. This rate of women is essentially required by the EU side. However, implementation also means that we urgently need to work on childcare in rural areas and also on the role of the agricultural policy in particular. It can't be that these traditional sex images are not questioned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Further positive comments in this programme – and that is why we want a framework law so that these positive tags will not be lost in implementation – are environmental protection and the Alpine Convention. But we do not know to what extent that will be. It also includes a so-called monitoring committee to examine how these things are implemented, how they are evaluated. The composition of this monitoring committee is, however, still quite vaguely formulated. We would like to see ourselves because it is precisely a matter of the National Council that the political parties are also involved here in order to enable an evaluation to take place over such a long period of time as these funds are distributed and processed and whether this means a meaningful development for us. The discussion before this programme in these various working groups has been a solid basis. There were numerous people involved, different stakeholders, different institutions. That's a good approach. But we do not believe that a framework law is unnecessary, but On the contrary, a framework law for implementation would be urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9726	Mr Haimbuchner has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9747	Madam President. High house! The pathfinder motto is: A good deed every day! And since there has already been a five-party motion for a resolution on the collapse of the Czech nuclear power station in Temelín today, from the very left to my colleague from Upper Austria Lutz Weinzinger, we now give the green group's present motion for a resolution. One can see, therefore, that despite the great ideological and programmatic differences that separate us from each other, a work of work is possible, and that is a positive perspective for a young Member. For a number of years the practice has been that the state should be allocated tasks to the sovereign sector and then carried out within the framework of the private administration. This leads to a worrying development in the fact that those citizens who are affected by this private economy administration are significantly hampered by the enforcement of law. In the field of agricultural support, the farmer receives a communication from the AMA, a communication which he cannot fight in the administrative field. He would therefore have to bring an action before the competent civil court and we know that this is linked to a significant risk of time and cost. However, if a farmer is to have a right to support, he must also be able to enforce his right quickly and cost-effectively. In fact, the AMA seems to act like an authority, only the farmer can impose his right extremely difficult. In my view, however, the farmer should not be regarded as a bit bitter in the field of agricultural support. In fact, the subsidies represent an essential part of agriculture's income, which is why the farmer must be considerably facilitated by the implementation of legislation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, there is a lot of money: 1 billion euros a year. It is high time that appropriate legal provisions were made for the implementation of the promotion, so that the farmer does not come to his right as a bitter, but as a free farmer. And I would like to tell the Commissioners of the ÖVP: Do not act as if you know how to use God as for agriculture! They have actually been away from farmers for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9797	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Legal speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9818	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, agriculture is important, farmers' rights are important. It is important that they are not bitters, that is all right, and that applications should be dealt with quickly, not a question. But, Mr Pirklhuber, you stand out, your speaking time is more than 10 minutes, your wife's colleague, everything is fine, just... – No, that's not stupid! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What does “more than” mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is stupid!]] I am not talking stupidly here at all, I would like to draw your attention to that. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] There would be a classic quote for me. Not what you mean, but: How long do you want to abuse our patience? Mr President, that is not what you believe, but that is Cicero, speaking against Catilina. I am therefore saying this because, with all the importance of this question, I would like to point out that the Committee is also important – and it was particularly important to you. This was so important to you that you did not address the fact that we are negotiating this agenda, which we have now divided into two days, in one day, because you said that we need sufficient time for these important materials in the Committee on Social Affairs to deal with it accordingly. And your colleague Pilz said that tomorrow we need time for the committee of inquiry. Everything is all right, that's why we found in the presidency that on these two days we do not have any special actions. Now I already admit to you that this is well formulated in the Presidential Protocol. There is therefore also a request for correction. I do not want to go that far now, to say that there is any intention that Mr Pirklhuber has somehow influenced the President-in-Office's Protocol. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't think so!]] No, I don't think so. But if you had inquired, you would certainly have known that, of course, the President said that there were no special actions for both days, otherwise the Committee would not have been so urgent, and we would not have had that time. Mr Pirklhuber. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Pirklhuber for his excellent report. No, we have abstained in your favour, and therefore it is annoyed that you get out of there and set aside this debate against these agreements, take the full speaking time and get upset now. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Actual correction!]] You can no longer speak – read in the Rules of Procedure! I'm just telling you: If this is your way of implementing agreements in the presidential, then this was the first and last agreement we have reached with you in this body.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9917	Actual corrections are not foreseen in such a debate. Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen: I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, as was the case with Mr Westenthal, the word “foolishness” was also in XVIII. A JP is worthy of regulation. I also ask you to be moderate. I am not yet issuing calls for orders, but please keep this a little in mind as far as the style of the dispute is concerned shortly before Christmas. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9951	Thank you, Madam President. I assume that I cannot report on business rules in this debate. That's why I refer to Mr Scheibner's statement on business regulations, which is...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9993	I'm asking for peace! A word on the Rules of Procedure shall always be possible, provided that an application is made. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There he has an application to make!]] But this has not been done that way in the past. A round to the Rules of Procedure has always been approved. You can also speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10033	The fact is that the minutes of the presidential meeting for tomorrow – I stress tomorrow Friday – provide that so-called special actions will be waived by common accord. The fact is that no such agreement was reached in the presidential for Thursday. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where is the application?]] In my view, at least, Mr Scheibner, is doing what is provided for in the President-in-Office's Protocol. And it is one thing to ask for a change in the President-in-Office's protocol during the current session at 2 p.m., as Mr Klubobmann Molterer did. That's really unique!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10087	Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? Please, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10111	I think this is really outrageous that the Presidential Agreements are being called into question here, which are seen by all the other political groups, except yours, both by ÖVP and SPÖ; I was before with Mr Cap and asked him: We have all, of course, understood this in such a way that no special actions take place on both days. This has the simple reason, Mr Van der Bellen, that both you and the President-in-Office Glawischnig have complained bitterly about the fact that there is no time for the committees. And now you are making a special action, delaying the end of the session, and we have less time for the Committee debates. That's the point. Mr Van der Bellen, you were with me before, and you said it was right that there was a presidential where, of course, for the first day, we also reached an agreement on this matter. That you suddenly see this differently surprises me, but it also shows some non-existent respect for presidential meetings and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10142	Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? – Mr Klubobmann Strache, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10166	Of course, it must be confirmed that the President-in-Office noted that, although we cannot act in accordance with the time limit, there are exceptions, and It has been explicitly established that it is not the case, as Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen says, that there is no special action on both days, and that only those requests that we have discussed in the presidency are being dealt with. If you don't take the presidential conference seriously, you won't have to bring any more common solutions in the future. I say clearly and clearly: It is likely that there will be a need for debate on the Rules of Procedure in the future, because that cannot be done! If one continues to act in general in such a way that “speed kills”, although this is to become different, is here in this House and one is constantly defined in the presidential terms contrary to the Rules of Procedure, then we will also raise our protest, and we will do so not only today, but also tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10208	Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? - That's not the case. I make the proposal, after it was a very difficult plenary preparation in the presidency, that we should discuss it again, of course in January. And I assume that... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, but not in January, but really not!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now I'm in touch too!]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer, you also want to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10256	Madam President, you have not said this year. If we have a problem, we'll clear this up today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, right now!]] And I'll tell you: It was so, in the previous President and this week, that we agreed for both days, just as Mr Van der Bellen has confirmed to me. I therefore attach importance to the fact that there is now or after a short round of the club men that we confirm what we made up. I only regret that this procedure is necessary. For me, it has always been like this: What we've been out of, we've kept it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10297	Mr Cap has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10321	The unintelligible faces of the other Members of Parliament confirm to me that we should not carry out the conflicts so openly, but we should then make a presidential one, sit down and talk about the day again, and discuss the day tomorrow again, so that we do not discuss this problem again tomorrow. A proposal on goodness: After that, let us make a presidential, not a stand, but a real presidential, and let's clarify this – and let's not stop the operation here now!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10346	Mr Cap, did I really understand that you also support a short break in the sitting and a round of club members – or a presidential one after that? [[Call the ÖVP and the BZÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: In between!]] – Capabilities Do you repeat what the proposal was? [[Unrest in the hall.]] I'm asking for rest, otherwise I can't understand anything up there. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10397	My proposal would be: A member of the Bureau will forward the meeting here, and in the meantime we will withdraw and present it all and prepare the day tomorrow. That, I think, would be the best. We would save time, everyone else will continue the session, and if the pain of separation is too great, we will be back soon. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10415	All right, that's a suggestion. I look into the faces of the clubmen for a moment. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Does that agree? Sit down and tell me! I shall now come to the President-in-Office of the Council to re-read what has actually been agreed. We are continuing in the meantime. There are no more speakers in this deadline debate. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues, to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for reporting on Amendment 55/A(E) concerning legal anchoring of the Austrian Rural Development Programme 2007 to 2013 a deadline until 29. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – That's the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. [[15:37:34]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10467	I shall now resume the debate on item 7 of the agenda. Mrs Rosenkranz has now been reported to speak. You've set a limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10492	Madam President. High house! I can now benefit from the hour's favor, because in a family-political debate the plenary session is full. That's really a pleasant thing. It would be better, of course, for everyone here to recognise that this is a key issue. Mrs Lentsch, you spoke of sugar being distributed. I don't think you can see that. These are not sugars distributed to mothers, but it is to be taken into account that this question is a very serious one, that there are actually a number of women in Austria who, because they have raised children, live in poverty at age. And if one of them is to recognize a repair needs here, then it cannot be considered as a sugar distribution. To say that basic security would cover this problem far better and that other groups of the population also live in poverty, and so on: Of course, it is true that there are other poverty-threatening groups. However, this group, namely those of the mothers who live in poverty in old age, deserves special attention, because it is just an absurd that those who have raised children with their livelihoods, namely, ensure that the state's old age security is safeguarded overall, then they cannot individually enjoy this old age security. This is a special thing to look at. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] In this respect, the concern presented in this request is, of course, highly justified, and it has always been a family-political ceterum censeo of the FPÖ – and this has apparently been inherited despite everything – that a solution needs to be sought and created here. However, one can be skeptical as to the specific execution.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10529	I'm asking for a little rest! The speaker felt disturbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10545	I would like to express my concern that mothers and mothers, above all mothers, should have a pension if justice is to be done only a little enough – that would be good – to give hearings. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But as far as the concrete implementation is concerned, I think that serious shortcomings can be found. For one thing, it's a kann-destination, not a legal claim. This is also not an ideal thing from the point of view of meaning. It cannot be considered whether this right, which is really very well founded, is also granted. Secondly, the wording on the reference is extremely restrictive. You had 10 900 requests when you paid the so-called mother's money in Carinthia – I had it selected – once. With restricted access and these restrictive provisions, you have not received 2 000 applications until now, although the children's allowance paid in Carinthia has been in force for several months now. So they exclude very many women who have also raised children, are over 60 and are living in poverty, for example by the very unfortunate provision that only those women who do not live in the common household with a dependent person, speak with their husband. This is actually a rather peculiar restriction. Whoever lives in genuine marriage with his husband does not get this achievement. Nevertheless: It will be time and again to talk about this problem, and it is – once again – a special group to be taken into account here. In addition, however, one will have to seriously consider and fix the basic structural defects of pension insurance at some point, namely that the general pension insurance system, as we have it and as it is common in Central Europe, but in principle, any pension insurance is, of course, with children. It cannot be that one creates a system that is at a disadvantage to those who maintain it. This is the classic case of a system that digs itself off the water. That's the basic mistake. Scientists have also pointed out in detail when introducing the general social security scheme that the general pension scheme must also take into account the performance of child rearing. This, however, is only very peripheral in the balance of family loads. In Austria, this has not been taken into account. I know Adenauer's quote. He said: Children People get them anyway. – By the way, what was a colossal misevaluation, but one simply had no desire to act. Sometime in the future, there will be a problem, but now we do not. It has to be solved! Those who raise children and therefore maintain the pension system significantly cannot have an individual damage. This is clearly also in the interests of the system. There is another wonderful quote that is very gripping. A business scientist said: It's strange already: We live in a society in which those who measure pigs are a highly respected man, those who raise children, it is not. – We should also fix and end this condition. There is a request from the liberals in the committee responsible, in which we take this up and say: As regards the contributions that one currently has to make as a young person, as an active person, the number of children must also play a role. This has been introduced in the Federal Republic of Germany under Red-Green in the care insurance scheme. This would be a colossal aid to young children and also the consideration of child rearing in pension law – of course, in more extensive form than it is now. This is what I have to add at the end. Mrs Minister, while I was still able to advise you, I have repeatedly described it in detail: It is very likely that the pension reform, with the calculation of working time, has made exactly the mothers absolutely disadvantaged. The increase in children's billing times was not nearly a compensation for this restriction at the time. We will also have to do something in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10615	Mrs Fuhrmann has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10636	High house! This proposal shows that in the next legislative period there will still be numerous discussions on how to improve something in the area of families. In that case, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs will deal with it. I would like to say now, looking back at the previous speaker, because she referred to the billing of child rearing times, that the Federal Government in recent years has made sure that women are really put in the foreground. To this end, we have to say that within the European Union, we actually have the only system that has not only achieved the equality of all pension systems but has also achieved. In this regard, we are a real example in Austria – that is because we can now better count on the time of child rearing. If we have a double contribution basis of €1 350, which will be effective, then this is already an improvement that you can't get under the table, but that's something you have to put in the foreground and which is also an advantage for those target groups of women you have addressed. In addition, there has also been recognition for those women who have provided special benefits in the reconstruction of the Republic of Austria, and there has been a pot of about €15 million in total – or still is – available. It is assumed that by the end of February 2006, some 34 400 applications had been made positively. That is to say, one has tried to recognize what it has done with a one-time payment of a particular target group. I believe that policy should, in principle, also ensure that overall concepts can be developed in these areas – a new legislative period – and not only in pieces, although there are sometimes situations where individual payments to certain target groups are necessary. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal that in such matters, there is always no way of losing sight, namely that, when it comes to the target group of women, there are not only older women, but also younger women who need support. There is also much to do in the future regarding the compatibility of family and work. I think politics is required to always make the most of the present and not always to take repair measures afterwards. I mean, the child care allowance was such a measure that supported young women. Students, including students, if they were affected, had a right to child benefit for the first time. This was not possible before because the claim was linked to the exercise of a profession. In order to prove this also with numbers: The child care money is now paid in the amount of about €1.4 billion, and in the care allowance for 1999 it was a third, 580 million €. There was a clear support for women. I believe that it is precisely in this sense that family policy, but also women's policy – one must not always mix it, one must be able to separate things from one another – should be negotiated constructively in the future. I assume that this will also happen in the Committee, including this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10691	Mrs Haubner's next speech comes with a two-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10712	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The BZÖ's request to introduce a mother's allowance has now been demonstrated in the discussion that all speakers, with the exception of the SPÖ, have a great willingness to do something – to do something for a generation that has been seriously neglected in the past. That is why I find it more than embarrassing when a representative of social democracy speaks of women's rights, but rights which women today do not have in the past have not been taken into account in the past. I'm asking: Where has the fair share in the past been for women who have done family work who have raised children who have cared for the elderly? . We from the BZÖ have enforced these rights for women in this government, not only in increasing child training times, but also in increasing and doubling the basis of contributions One thing seems very important to me: [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the future, women need only seven more years of work to get a pension, as the rest of the time can be counted for family benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] These are actions and not just speeches about the rights of women, but they are being done here! I would also like to say one thing: Mrs Lentsch said that the BZÖ had now discovered the heart of women over 60. . I think we have acted very properly in this government for the women of the so-called generation, because it took 60 years for the state to achieve it for the first time. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Almose!]] You're always talking about alms, but you haven't done anything at all! We recognize the situation. That's why I'm saying: Don't talk about something all the time, make better suggestions! Do it! I cordially invite you: Create justice and help you a little with repairing what you have neglected!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10764	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 31/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[15:51:08]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Immission Protection Act (IG-L-Novelle 2006) (7/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10803	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10830	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the Minister is present, because our proposal in this House is something that concerns health immensely – human health as a top priority. It is priceless, and this should be handled with care. The Immission Protection Act Novelle, which has been carried out with the votes of ÖVP and BZÖ, brings massive deterioration to human health and harms the environment. And finally, Mr. Kopf, she also hurts the economy. Our novels design essentially eliminates two deteriorations, both of which go hand in hand. Your amendment to the Immissions Protection Act has almost removed the limit values. Therefore, announcements of emission reductions are already sufficient to allow new issuers to be allowed. In our view, this is unbearable for the affected regions. Areas burdened by harmful air pollutants shall not be exposed to new issuers. There must be clear rules to protect human health, to protect the environment. If we look at the rehabilitation areas, the list is long – long and numerous in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you we don't want cities, we don't want regions in Austria where children get sick by breathing there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The first step to be taken is to consider: How can emissions be reduced? - There you have to look at: Where did they come from? This requires the effort of all issuers to achieve this objective. And these are very easy to locate, because on the one hand this is traffic, on the other hand the industry and industry and, of course, the house fire. In Austria, a lot has already been achieved and progress has been made in terms of integrated environmental technologies – this is positive. I think industry and industry have partly done their homework, but large fields are open. In the area of house fire, heat supply, thermal insulation, Austria is lagging behind. There are great steps to be taken towards renewable energy. These must be the top priority. This also applies to thermal insulation and house renovation. Technologies are to be used such as passive house technology, low-house technology. All of this needs to be taken for granted and an absolute must to make progress in this regard. And this strategy, ladies and gentlemen, saves energy, protects the environment, does health well and creates jobs. Modern environmental policy is both: It protects people and the environment and creates jobs. And that is exactly what it is about, that is the way environmental policy needs to be created. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since the small economic miracle that is currently happening in Austria with the growth rates has already been spoken of today, one must say: Do we benefit from the favor of the hour? We benefit from the favor of the hour: If we invest in the future, we invest in environmental protection and thus protect the health of our children! With regard to the absolute weakness of transport policy in Austria, it is important to take steps to promote public transport and, of course, finally to bring goods to the rails where there are absolute failures. Mr. Kopf, I'm telling you: Many businesses, industrial enterprises, complain about the lack of connection to the railway structure of the ÖBB, which is given. On the second proposal that the Minister of Transport should have a veto right if national leaders are to take measures to reduce traffic, it should be said: This is now happening in Austria in all the federal states. This right of veto is not competent for the Minister of Transport and it is also not to be seen that in Austria – the country of federalism pure – the political competence and the responsibility of the countries are to be cut down. We believe that steps must be taken here to ensure the protection of health and the protection of the environment and, of course, to increase the scope of reduced emissions in other areas, in order to create jobs. The non-negotiation of Minister Pröll has resulted in an enormous increase in the fine-stower load. Look at the data! In each of the federal states, as you sit here, there are regions where the values explode so to speak. With you, too, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: With me in Vienna...!]] We're at speed 100, that's no question! This was necessary so that we can also secure the scope for the economy. That's it, Mr Scheibner! We must now take the right steps, and we must work on them. We want an Immission Protection Act that protects human health, protects the environment and creates real jobs. And that's exactly what this novelle is going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10885	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10906	Madam President. High house! I understand the basic intensification of the request, I also believe that – hardly surprisingly – the IG-L includes some areas where improvements can be made. We already said that in the last GP, we also had concrete ideas for this. On the two specific amendments proposed, which are to be debated here, we must say: It is true that we like the first one – I believe it is about the right of opposition of the Minister of Transport – that is, a kind of veto right against driving bans. We also criticised this kind of veto law in the last GP, which has not changed. In the second area, I may understand the intention behind it, but just as I have read it now and as I see it, this provision would, in practice, lead, for example, to the fact that if a district heating plant is to be built in a rehabilitation area – which has natural emissions but at the same time reduces significantly more emissions, because it is more efficient because it has better filter systems – it should not be approved, because reduction potential for individual plants, for individual projects or for individual renovations should not be charged. – That means that in this area, for example, this would be something we, I think, all want to do well, which would also be very good. But according to EIA, that would not be allowed! I understand the intention of that. It's about not just saying, No matter how the air situation, how bad the air is, we can settle even more plants! I understand, we don't want that either. Nevertheless, it must also be possible in rehabilitation areas to put new plants or new plants into operation. This often goes hand in hand with the closure of old, less efficient plants. What it is about is a plan for this rehabilitation area to actually and verifiably improve the air situation there. And there, new plants are not allowed to cross these objectives and these paths. I have given you an example of what would not be allowed under this law, although we all want it. Let us look closely at this in the Committee, let us see together that we are bringing together a good law and how we can improve the IG-L so that we can improve the air situation in Austria and meet all the objectives, health et cetera. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10944	Next came Mr Hörl's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10965	Thank you, Madam President. Appreciate Members of the House! For a few weeks now, I have the honour of representing Tyrol here in the National Council. This is probably also the reason why I am still too surprised, primarily from the partial hair-sharpening demands and ideas of the Green Group. I can still understand the first part of your request, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President Glawischnig. To give the countries more skills on transport issues, to give them more scope for decision, that is quite positive from the point of view of my own country, but we must also be very careful that the economy at national level will also find the same conditions in the future. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second part of your request, on the other hand, I fully feel that it is a point of order. They require that further plant permits be no longer granted in affected areas. If you think you have to kneel the economy of our country under the cover of ecology on the belt, then the fun will stop! This is about the central question of work and quality of life for broad layers of the population, because a high quality of life is not only the good air, the clean water, the beautiful landscape, but also a functioning economy, even if you do not want to see it. Let us take a closer look at the situation in a region affected by this request: Most of the Tyrolean Inntal is designated as a rehabilitation area according to IG-Air. In the Inntal, about two thirds of the population live in Tyrol. People live there not least because they appreciate the high quality of life, they live there because there is also a functioning economy and good businesses that provide them with jobs and thus represent a future perspective. Surely the Inn valley is not a sky on earth. Of course, it would be even more beautiful without traffic noise and without fine dust in the air. These are problems that we must and want to face. But whoever, like the Greens, thinks that the environment is doing a favor by taking their potential for development from the economy has not yet learned to think in greater contexts and a little further into the future. This green proposal is particularly important: a large-scale job destruction. When these green ideas are implemented, many unemployed walk on the green meadow. Is that what we want? - I don't think you have the overview. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true, and you know that!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Vote exactly!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is also treacherous, and you also better know that the greens are only going to the farms with the stop for plant permits. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true either!]] They could also demand that the heating of the apartment be turned up only if private cars are allowed to drive only if the limit values are lower. That would probably bring more than stopping operating permits, but there you are rightly afraid of the people's anger. They take the industrial economy hostagely from the rest of the causers, as long as it is only against your old enemy image, namely the economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, please answer me a question: Do you think that it really helps people in polluting regions when companies are driven out when thousands of jobs are destroyed? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Who wants to sell the companies?]] Let's start from the other side: We support our companies when it comes to modern technology, technologies that can also lead to the reduction of pollutants, but let us manage them and let people do their work, their perspective and thus their livelihood and prosperity. We all have the goal of improving the air situation in particularly stressed areas, but we differ in the approach. They of the Greens choose the path of restriction, we take that of development. They consider the economy to be an evil enemy, who is protected, we want the economy to work, because then it is motivated and able to meet the changing conditions of its environment and the demands of our people. Human empty halls with chimneys can't do that. Your concept certainly doesn't work. We also want to protect the environment, but with the economy, because the economy is all ours. – On the other hand, with your anti-economic policy, you ultimately proceed with the bronchang against the economic location and thus against the people. I'll hold on to this. There are no requirements under European law for this request, and the law in force is strict enough to prevent further burdens. With your request, if he becomes a law, the loss of hundreds of jobs is to be expected and we therefore reject your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11063	Next item is the report by Mr Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11084	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We had a short lyrical, poetic phase here in the House today at noon, and I just wanted to add a little to it on this subject. Immission Protection Act – this is a little bit of a hexameter – Immission Protection Act Air – as smells on it, graves and rubble. The scent is noticed when the Immission becomes too strong and if something is wrong. In the tomb comes the one or those who are too long exposed to it. A shed is the one who, by doing so, is constantly burdening the driver of the car and making him the culprit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also the one that inhibits our economy and our economic development, whereas anywhere where environmental pollution is in fact carried out to the greatest extent in the direction of air, nothing happens at all at international level. As long as the world's most important primeval forest in the Amazon region is being wooded and with it it brings merciless damage to the whole world as long as it cannot be used internationally, we cannot do anything by reducing and reducing the speed on a motorway in Upper Austria, which has been expanded by hundreds of millions of schilling, except for nothing to do with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said by two previous speakers: Of course, we must always have this problem in mind and in mind, and of course we always have to consider whether we can't solve it better, but we really can't shoot it here. Here, as in Upper Austria, we must not simply be subject to speed limits and say that we have brought down our emission values again, which is not true, because the results are three years old and the results are not always so. And the main entry is known to be from the truck, we need to know. Therefore, we should consider how we change the whole economy a little so that the potatoes are not transported from the Burgenland to Portugal, are being peeled there, brought up to Belgium, put there, brought down to Sicily and fried there, so that they can then be delivered as fries everywhere in Europe. That doesn't have to be. It is possible to bring production back to the narrower areas, to the country, to the state. You don't have to internationalize everything and thus provoke a traffic that we haven't got under control for a long time. That's where you should think. So: Let's do it! Let us look at the proposals of the Novelle of the IG-L-Novelle 2006 IG-L-Novelle. We will discuss this and let experts speak, but we will not shoot at the expense of our drivers and at the expense of our economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11138	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle, who has been elected on a voluntary basis for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11160	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Environment is not just an issue that I have to be interested in as a Member of Parliament, but it is an issue that is particularly important to me. An intact environment is actually the greatest good that we can leave behind our offspring. For example, how important it is to me is that 13 years ago – if you remember – there were about 2,000 organic farmers. Now it's over 20,000, and I wasn't totally indifferent to it. This is only by the way to show that a healthy environment is of particular importance to me. But now to your request. In general, I believe that the legislative innovation adopted in November 2005 represents a very good regulatory framework. Nevertheless, I do not believe that all the regulations in it must be valid until the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. On the contrary! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Very good!]] In an analogy to new insights, new adjustments will always need to be made. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, under point 1 of your motion, only demand the deletion of the last three sentences. These are, in general, very important to me, because just what road traffic is about is a versatile view, assessment and consideration of the plus and minus points of vital importance. It is disrupting the participation of the Minister for Transport in transport restrictive measures which may be adopted by the country. This veto right of the Minister of Transport refers only to the high-level road network, i.e. only to motorways and highways. Have you ever thought about what reality might look like? If the head of Vienna ordered a general ban on trucks on the A23, what would happen? The whole traffic would go over Lower Austria. What would that mean for the environment? Have you now seen that sectoral restrictions simply require multiple evaluations? Or another example – already mentioned today: Take You are the A1, which is three-trackly expanded with taxpayers to ensure a safe operation at tempo 130. But then the respective state government will have a sectoral 100-hour-kilometre limitation, despite the many noise protection walls. They also allow Austria to become a transport policy Fleckerlüpich through unrestricted country regulations. Who then asks and evaluates the question of compliance with the principles of effectiveness, economy and economy? Have you ever thought about what these sectoral, corresponding to IG-L, would mean for drivers in general? – They would once again become dairy cows of the nation, because apart from the higher purchase costs for environmentally friendly cars, any violation of the hundreds of restrictions will be doubled, namely, on the one hand, in accordance with the road traffic regulations and, on the other hand, according to the Immissions Protection Act. I already see that infringements have to be committed, but the money that is being collected does not benefit the federal government or the road network, but it flows completely unboundly to the Landesbanken. That's what I'm asking myself: What does that have about the environment? I am therefore convinced that the Minister of Transport has a right of participation, especially in the case of trans-European transport networks. Request under point 2 of your application It merely “pursue ” and“ keep ” the exchange of the term. What this really means, however, is that you do not take into account an blatant intensification of investment permits. This poses a serious threat to Austria's economic location. Nevertheless, the concerns of health protection must not be overlooked, as I am entirely with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: I'm glad!]] In the form of compliance with EU directives and an accurate assessment of the situation in question, it must be possible to protect the population from harmful effects on health. Nevertheless, we must not become a country without economic sites. The IG-L is intended to serve the health of people, but it must not take the opportunity for them to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11223	The next speaker is Mr Steier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11244	Mr President. High house! Just over a year ago, both government parties here in the House adopted the Environmental Adjustment Act 2005. This bill also contained some changes to the Immissions Protection Act Air, including the veto right for the Minister of Transport, mentioned by my previous speaker, against traffic-restrictive measures. Since then, the federal states have to reach agreement with the Minister of Transport if, on account of the cost-effective time limits on motorways, the time limits are to apply for more than three months. Overall, this Environmental Adjustment Act has brought a massive obstacle to the fight against fine dust for the federal states. At that time, not only the opposition parties, but in particular the countries and also numerous experts, clearly recorded this. We are now at the beginning of the so-called fine dust season as every year. In the coming months, this issue will again be the focus of media attention due to the seasonal nature of the issue. The people on the street, our older fellow citizens and especially the parents of small children will rightly ask themselves when politics finally intends to take accompanying measures to reduce the fine dust pollution. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing a request from the Greens, which would like to eliminate at least the worst mistakes of the IG-Air-Novelle at the time, by removing the veto right of the Minister for Transport against fine dust-restriction measures on motorways and highways. From our point of view, the intention of this request is to welcome and support it. The range of exceptions for bans in the IG air is already more than extensive. It is not necessary that the national leaders in their actions are also additionally hindered by this veto right of the Minister of Transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you should remember the real goal of the IG-air legislation once again – I quote –: “The aim of this federal law is... the permanent protection of human health, animal and plant life... against harmful air pollutants and the protection of human beings from inadequately harmful air pollutants...’ High house! Problem-solving expertise in the fields of fine dust, nitrogen oxides and climate protection has not necessarily been one of the strengths of those responsible in recent years. Austria is away from the Kyoto target light years. Instead of minus 13 percent for the 1990 base year, Austria is more than 29 percent above the Kyoto target. The specifications on the emission of nitrogen oxides will also be clearly missed. Ladies and gentlemen! Measures in the key approaches such as energy and transport, measures to protect climate in the country instead of the disposal trade and the free purchase of obligations abroad and a serious extension of the national climate change plan will therefore be a command for the next few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11292	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11314	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Four minutes, which I would like to use to represent the interests of drivers and drivers, with the same emphasis. Today, we are discussing air pollution and the reduction of harmful emissions, but from my point of view, we are going completely beyond the matter, because action will lead to a situation where drivers are more severe and more heavy and the traffic becomes tougher and tougher. One of these despicable measures, which is really anything but in the sense of air purity, is driving with light a day. This was assumed by the Minister for Transport and with the approval of all the political groups, as far as I was able to look at it, except ours, has gone over the stage. And today it turns out that driving with light per day carries an extra burden on fuel consumption of 0.2 litres per 100 kilometres. Did any of you actually think and think about and evaluate what this results in an increase in carbon dioxide emissions for Austria? The dimensions are huge! There is no study on this, but it would be appropriate to do this. The only basic material that was accessible to me is an article in the “New Scientist” in the UK, where it means – I may quote in the original: ‘If every car in the UK used daytime running lights, 1.8 million tons of carbon dioxide would be added to the atmosphere each year.’ Now, if you turn this over to Austria, to the number of people living here and the number of cars used here, you can expect that driving with light per day will result in a sum of 234,000 tonnes of additional CO2 emissions. This is one of the biggest environmental disasters that has been decided here! And if you want to do something for air conditioning, you have to start right there and take back a measure that is also directed against road safety, a measure that causes motorcyclists massive damage, as more and more warnings make clear. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And now the Österreich transport club – this is the alternative transport club in Austria – warns that pedestrians could take massive damage by making driving with light a day a commitment. The next traffic kanny, which is also a massive damage to our air, is the tempo 30 craze, and it also comes from the greens. It is now clear that this gives an incredible added burden. When I drive 30 km/h, it means that I drive either with the first gear completely overtoured and from it follows a huge extra load due to fuel consumption, and when I drive with the second gear, I drive extremely under-touring and I'm hurting my own engine. – An environmental policy and transport policy idea! Next point: the massive park problem in the agglomerations. It is already clear to me that this is to a great extent the task of the municipalities, but here too it would be necessary for the federal government to be involved, with funding measures, with programs, to ensure that more parking facilities are found here, especially because the turning of rounds in search of a parking space in an agglomeration room is inevitably wasting energy and damaging the air. What we need is a transport minister who really reconciles the interests of environmental protection and drivers, and not a policy that defines itself in explaining drivers as an ideological enemy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We from FPÖ like to do this. We like to play the role of a motorcyclist and motorcycle club here in the Hohe Haus and want to do so without if and but. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Are you ARBÖ or ÖAMTC?]] – Neither nor, but it is about taking advantage of the interests of the drivers away from any politically colored club, because there is no one here and because many have gone into the trap of your policy: the SPÖ for fear of losing a few green breaths, the ÖVP for the sake of God knows what is inventive. Mobility is a fundamental right for the people to come from home to work. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Mrs. Lichtenecker, it's no crime to drive the car, no more than it can be a crime to go on a weekend trip with the family or to go on a holiday by car! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And if I do this by car, it's not an act I'm deliberately going to damage our air, but I'm just using my basic right to mobility. [[Abg. Sburny: Only for drivers? Or for others?]] And this should not be blocked, not inhibited and reduced by restrictions on traffic law, which in the future has no other objective than that the air is more polluted than it is now. This is the wrong way, we reject it. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Think about the 234,000 tons of carbon dioxide with your driving with light a day, and think about how many dead motorcyclists this year have been reported! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11394	Mr Eder spoke next. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11417	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky has now tried to mess up drivers, the environment and health a little. I would just like to say a few things clearly. First of all, Mr Vilimsky, we must look at a longer period of pollution. The pollution was much worse in 2000, when a FPÖ minister named Schmid began to hold his office than today, only his batteries have been empty relatively quickly. The FPÖ has not contributed much here. Secondly, Mrs Forstinger, I think, was also responsible for transport by the FPÖ, and in this time too much has not been done here except for chaos policy. After that, Minister Reichhold, also then from the FPÖ, came: Even under his ministry, there has not been much in this area. To present yourself here today as a representative of the Freedom Party and to think that you have to do much more and something else is already a bit bold. Secondly, I would like to say that, of course, we always have to weigh between safety and the environment. To “light a day” there was an survey, a long-prepared meeting, a long-prepared session, whether light makes sense a day, knowing that, of course, when more energy is consumed, a little more fuel is also consumed. That's not a question at all. – But the 0.2 litres per 100 kilometres have been shaken out of the sleeve, because there are cars that need more, others need less, one have bigger, the other smaller engines. I don't know where you got 234,000 tons. [[Abg. Vilimsky: ADAC!]] These are all arithmetic values “made by FPÖ”. We have here taken an evaluation of this law, and in two years it will be checked again whether it has contributed to greater road safety in order to introduce light a day, and what environmental pressures therefrom. If we have carried out this evaluation, we will also be able to finally determine whether or not to stay there. It was a controversial question, I admit, but one has to consider whether some things serve road safety, whether there are fewer dead, less injured, less suffering, whether they result in lower follow-up costs in road transport or not. And then – in a year, because the action is already running – we will see if it makes sense or not. Then, of course, you are cordially invited to continue to cooperate in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11452	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 7/A to the Committee on the Environment. [[16:28:37]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Act on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (9/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11494	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the floor is given to one of the applicants, in the case of Mr Mag. Kogler, with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11521	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! . I particularly welcome Mrs Pilz, who has already honoured us through his presence here. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I shall come to talk about the possibilities here in future. We are indeed, I believe, not one third here yet, but the happy message would be – and now I come to the issue – that we could also use an investigation committee as a minority of those present here if at least we reached the quota for attendance. To the seriousness of the matter: We now have two committees of inquiry which have already started their work. What is it about in the future? As always after national elections, I have been observing this for a long time now, at least a majority of political groups are voting in favour of the establishment of committee of inquiry as a minority right. This is a highly reasonable matter; I will not spread about it. There is now a concrete proposal on the constitutional provision of the kind. 53 para. 1 – Mr Cap is there too; I have read in the APA; he has virtually identical representation of what is now in place in this request – that a desire of 20 Members should already be equal to a decision to set up an investigation committee. That was actually a very far-reaching proposal. We have, I think, always had a third of us, but then immediately thought: Well, we don't stay behind the cap! and have modified the application in this direction and finally also introduced it. Now, however, fear is emerging – and there have been many debates in this respect –: If this becomes a minority right, the setting up of committee of inquiry, then it is immediately being exploited by one or another political group, and we have virtually nothing more to do than make committees of inquiry. I think the argument is in principle wrong, even if there is no restriction on the part of any political group, which is half reasonable and still remains, which will not go to the point of excretion, because this is only true of the applicants, if I know how many committees are and in no way goes anything further. It would not be necessary, in fact, to provide for restrictions because the free play of the forces and the political reason would control this itself; I am convinced of that. But for those who are quite uncertain, Mrs Fekter, for example, we have in this proposal the following restriction, which is based on certain minority rights and requests for the Court of Auditors' special status as examiners here from the house. By a majority we can always decide everything, that is clear. That is why we can also send the Court of Auditors a special audit, with a majority decision. But we also have, and this is the complete analogy, the possibility that a group with 20 MEPs would send such a request for examination on the journey. That's what it's supposed to be here. And then there is also the limitation that no more than three may be at the same time. That's how it's regulated here. This is even about two possible committees at the same time. That is to say, the fear – that is to say, if it is sent to all speakers, then there is no time to waste on it – that I know how many simultaneous committees there is no need, because this would also be prevented by law, but then by the National Council's Rules of Procedure, and it would work exactly the same as the corresponding instruments and institutions for the Court of Auditors. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] But the really interesting and innovative is quite different, because: What will help to set up a committee of inquiry with minority law if all the proceedings there can only be decided by majority law again? And now we're going through this in completely logical analogy: There is also the possibility for the minority, even for a single or a single Member, to make decisions on evidence and, ultimately, to apply for evidence, especially as regards the loads of witnesses, for documents themselves and as individuals or as individuals. And that is again limited by two, so that from a group on one meeting day no more than two can claim it. So far, so logical. That's how far your fears should be removed. So far, so reasonable. This is a whole package, is already told, and now it's about this "window" after government negotiations. We assume that this is not explicitly contained in a government programme. We need a two-thirds majority for this matter, but always after elections we would have the majority. This time I can rely on Mr Cap to ensure that we do so, just as all of us have now publicly claimed, and I do not see at all any obstacle that we can finally do this. My five minutes are over. I can therefore confine myself to saying that we have two committees of inquiry, to which there is nothing bad to say, but that we should finally let them work. So everyone is trying to do it, and finally we will insist that much earlier we should have made this constitutional change.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11601	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11622	I can connect immediately seamlessly to the statements made by my predecessor. Of course, he has also described the problem very well. It is not just about a minority right here in the House. For example, it would be a measure of 20 MEPs that would allow opposition parties to apply for a committee of inquiry to smaller parties. Mr Kogler has also rightly referred to the question: How should a committee of inquiry called by a minority be able to work and work? There must also be a possibility to be installed – it can be what Mr Kogler has described, but this can still be done in the working group to draw up these Rules of Procedure. There really must be the possibility of a democratic extension of control possibilities. Should we come together to form a government, we should in principle confess that we want to have this minority law investigation committee. The concrete formulation must then be developed here with all the parties, because it cannot be the case that the two major parties are going over the three other parties, but that must be developed together so that it really has a democratic quality. I can express my respect and praise to Mr Graf, who is working on a committee of inquiry, and to Mr Pilz, who is working on the other committee of inquiry, but also to all the other Members, including those of the ÖVP, who are involved and who are also contributing here so that these two committees of inquiry can really achieve good results. I think that this is a really good example of a very democratic process, and I would also say that these are the precepts for this minority right. That's one of the aspects. We have to think about it – and I have to put it here, although it does not fit directly with this request – if there are some government – in that case, we prefer the one, Mrs Fekter – as the Question Time does. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Or the other one?]] Do you want to continue as it was in the past that there was a dedicated question, but not always a very dedicated answer? This is a point you should really look at and think about whether you really want to stay with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] This is already important to me, Question Time, and how this game, which is not supposed to be a game, is really going on between members of the government and Members of Parliament. That's a big concern to me. Mrs Fekter, you can bring your democratic elan to this committee of inquiry. As I hear it, you are very committed to it anyway, and we will continue to monitor whether or not They'll be in the future too. Another point that is very important: That if citizens' initiatives and popular desire come to pass, they will not “run out” at the end of the legislative period, but will really be on the table here – what it weighs, that’s what it has – and will also be processed, even if it should take a little longer. This is also a very, very essential aspect. Dealing with the People's Procuratorate and with the billing courts – please: Parliament's institutions! It is here to regulate the competences, the way in which they can carry out their work, the culture of the report, the basic opening of committee meetings. In short: If we really try, we are at the beginning of an era of a new, more lively, transparent Parliament, a Parliament which is more democratic and which can exercise its control rights much, much better and wider. We will stand for this – even if we are going to sit in the government, we will stand for it. Because don't forget, Mrs Fekter: Sometimes you're in a government fast, but you're out quickly. I say to you, therefore, that it is perhaps not so bad if you really stand up for it – not only from fundamental considerations, but because it is about the self-esteem of Members, about the House, about Parliament, about democracy – and all that is done to ensure that this democratic quality is possible and the framework conditions are suitable for it. We have also just had debates on compliance with the 24-hour principle. In all of this, we must try – should this planned government – to deal with the opposition fractions, that they have time to make their criticisms in time so that we can deal with this criticism. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If you can do it and have a good idea or want to start a good initiative, bring it not only for the audience and for the gallery, but in time. I am now looking at the ÖVP's colleagues: Maybe if it comes to this government, we can make that happen. If good ideas come from these three opposition parties, you can let them flow in. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's us! We've known you too long!]] I know some of you have to change and get used to. That was a little bit of an absolute majority of governments you just had. ==References====External links== October is about to end. Now it's called rethinking; now it's getting used to; now it's called more democracy dare, as Willy Brandt said. – That is, I think, a slogan to which we really want to confess and confess ourselves here fully.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11692	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11713	Madam President. Mr Cap! I do not like it when you mention this “game” here in the House. We do not regard this as a game, but this debate is serious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Call the SPÖ: But this is new!]] Of course, we also want to discuss business regulations on what we might be able to improve, which can be made more exciting, which can actually be optimised here in terms of the course of our work. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Democratic!]] Our Rules of Procedure have a wealth of minority rights. We have a very strong minority and control right-wing parliamentarianism. I would like to present this today, so that in the parliamentary protocols sometime we find what minority rights we have. A Member of Parliament or a member of the committee may request oral questions, supplementary requests, separate votes and number of votes, make statements on the Rules of Procedure, raise objections to the agenda. He has a right of speech – twice per debate. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Right to speak!]] Other rights include the submission of petitions, the request for a current debate, the request for a project to be dealt with in the EU Subcommittee and the submission of amendments, self-employed motions for resolutions. - A parliamentarian can do that alone. The right of five Members, for example, is to make a written request, to make urgent requests, to make urgent requests, to form an hour's notice, to convene brief debates on requests and deadlines, to set up committee of inquiry, to request a debate on a statement by members of the government, as well as to put forward own-initiative proposals, motions for resolutions, mistrust and amendments. The right of 20 Members, ladies and gentlemen, is to request a special meeting per year, to request special audits by the Court of Auditors, to request a vote of a nature and to read the official protocol at the end of the meeting. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you, Mrs. Fekter! Thank you! Right to speak!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Seminar work!]] The right of one fifth of the Members is to postpone the vote of a distrust motion and a request for the resolution of the National Council. The right of a quarter of the Members is the establishment of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee, special audits of a particular process, and the request for the treatment of a project in the EU's main committee. The right of a quarter of the members of the committee is specifically to convene the Standing Subcommittee on State Police and Military Intelligence. A third of the Members can convene a special session and challenge laws at the Constitutional Court. On the rights of majority voting All that I have now read in full is the rights of a minority of Members – so that is not so much what the displeasure of Members has shown about this long list. [[Abg. Ollinger: But these are not minority rights, the majority rights!]] [[Abg. Oils: You got it wrong!]] In our Rules of Procedure, majority rights are still the establishment of investigation committees, the decision of a ministerial body, the decision of a vote of distrust, the citation decision – that is, if we want to have a member of the government here – the implementation of parliamentary surveys and the establishment of committee of inquiry. I have therefore mentioned this because it is clear that a hierarchy exists in the activities in terms of what an individual can do, what several can and what the majority can do. This is the Hierarchy is balanced in control rights, and this balance should not be changed by a single instrument, which, as it were, goes from the majority decision to the minority decisions. – We consider the current legal situation to be good and sufficient.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11862	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11884	Ladies and gentlemen! I would of course have liked to hear what the other political groups are saying. But I am sure that I am not going to experience anything like the speech of Mrs Fekter. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] That is something for itself, Mrs Fekter, that you trust to express the right of Members to speak here at the speaker's desk as a minority right. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Twice per debate!]] Thank you, Mrs Fekter! I'm kneeling in front of you because I'm allowed to talk here. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter! Unfortunately, you have forgotten to mention that there is this right of speech for individual Members only if it is allocated to them by the Group, because for a non-attached Member it does not look so good with the right of speech, we know. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If there's enough time to talk!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course! They have more time to speak!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Read Rules of Procedure!]] He needs to look for a majority – or at least a political group – then he can talk. Mrs Fekter, when you come to the speaker's desk and list the majority rights of Parliament in relation to the pronounced minority and control right-wing parliamentarianism, I really do think that this is the case. One has nothing to do with the other, except that, of course, minorities can also join forces. But unfortunately we still have the problem in this House – and in this respect your speech is already a major problem in order to be careful – that you can, of course, with the votes of the EIA, if you want to, block any reform that leads to more rights for Parliament. – You can still do that. You've proved in the past that you can do well. There were almost all the representatives of all the parties – including your party! – agreeing with things, and then there was – I remember well – the lonely then group president Khol, who said as long as he was chairperson of the political groups here, there is no such thing. And it was. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! I can't remember!]] – For example, it was so on family policy issues, where I can still remember that the ÖVP women were also the opinion of the other parties. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I can't remember, and I've always been there!]] We may also experience such a situation again this time. You would have started with the first sentence, Mrs Fekter! However, it is not only a question of making Parliament – what you want – more "stressing". – I find that interesting. That's what I'm sharing: Let's make it more exciting! But only your speech, this saturation, with which you say here, it's all good, it doesn't need anything better, there are minority rights, there are majority rights in Parliament. – No, we know that! However, we are not only dissatisfied with what you grant to minorities, but also with the way in which parliamentarianism is done in Austria. Many of the spectators are equally dissatisfied with these conditions. I am very grateful to Mr Klubobmann Cap for taking up the example of Question Time: This is not worthy of a developed parliamentarianism if we deal with a question-answer game that, of course, does not devalue a certain situational comic, because the questions are pre-formulated, but the answers can be given in good faith. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially to the address of the ÖVP: There was a time – you may remember – at the end of 2002/beginning 2003, after the last elections, as the ÖVP was also short-term in order to establish the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. You should not forget that, and above all you should think of a better person. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fekter, go in.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12005	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12026	Madam President. High house! In deep humility and full of gratitude, I enter this Rostra to be allowed to talk. Mrs Fekter, I have never been so clearly aware of this right until today. I would like to thank you very much for this communication of my right to speak. We are in a parliament – where “parlars” speak. That is to say, the name of this House already expresses it, but the speech you gave today has again made it clear how grateful you must be for this right – you are absolutely right! – also for being able to give a speech as you have now given one. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the Rules of Procedure! ... Kasperl Theater!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Fekter, you have still forgotten to mention the right of Members to sit in the debate, even though the chair is collaborating with them, as I have just been told. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Stay calm!]] Or the right to approach the government bank of the ÖVP in a bent attitude, but quite politely. – You forgot to mention that too. Or even the right to leave this house again through a side entrance. Mrs Fekter, have this right, too. It should be forgotten when listing the ‘epochal’ rights of the individual Members and the minorities of this House. – Thank you very much for that! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the Rules of Procedure, then you know!]] You can't really have meant this debate, Mrs Fekter. Please – I have such a high opinion from you – please say that you did not mean this speech seriously! Then I stop counting other rights that you have forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, High House! It does well – you have now seen this in Mr Cap's speech – to spend a few years on the opposition bank as well. When I imagine Mr Kostelka speaking here earlier on about this issue – we have said these wishes more often – what a change it is when Josef Cap is standing here and instead of Peter Kostelka is illuminating this topic! – It's great! You're gonna get in like honey. This minority kindness – I am really caught! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In contrast to Mrs Fekter's speech, Mr Cap, I was really taken by you. I hope that this will continue and that it is not just a temporary window that has now opened up and after the 11th century. It's closed again in January. – This is my deep hope, which I associate with your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Dangerous Axis: Cap-Stadler!]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, that's not dangerous at all! I think it dangerous if a Member of this House gives me the right to speak as an epochal right and says that there is no need for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is dangerous! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Oellinger and Mr Haidlmayr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is clear from Parliament's main topics that more and more of the legislative activities are being shifted to control rights. Therefore, it is only necessary and correct that we continue to receive the control rights of the House in the future. – And these are always the control rights of the minority, not the majority: As long as parliamentarism works from the government bank in such a way that the government bank dominates the majority of parliament, it must be a minority right to carry out these control activities for so long. I think, no, I hope that when the government negotiations between SPÖ and ÖVP come to a conclusion and it comes to a red-black government, not this little game that ÖVP is currently testing permanently in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee: Whenever SPÖ representatives, under the leadership of my colleague, dare to make a majority of herbs with green and blue, the screams begin: Aha, so you are, you don't mean it seriously with the government! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a check-up, which Mr Hohn speaks. How does the Eurofighter Research Committee focus its work on whether you have a better government negotiating environment with the SPÖ or a worse one?- Oh, my God! Will this mean that when the government negotiating climate comes to a sunny end and a government is formed, can the SPÖ Group not give any more approval to the Eurofighter Committee on Greens or Freedoms, or can they no longer carry out control activities together with us at all? Ladies and gentlemen! This is the implicit threat that Mrs Fekter spoke out of the speech, which, as admittedly a little lukewarm, was the threat: When we're one again, the fun stopped! Then this “Prag Spring” – so to speak, this “Vienna Spring” – is over. Then we are back at the old system, which the majority is passing over, according to the motto: We are not always right, but we have the majority, and that is why we are right! This is the method which is apparent and which is always indicated with the long finger towards the SPÖ Group when it dares to decide with us and with the Greens a request against the votes of the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying something: The activities of future committees of inquiry can either be designed in the way proposed by Mr Cap, namely by strengthening minority rights, or by focusing more on judicial procedures – there are also parliamentary models in America – so that there is a greater standardisation with individual rights for individual members who no longer have to be subject to the committee's disposition. This would be, among us, the best way, because it does not always involve the political framework or the “great weather conditions” in the Committee. I would only like to take this into account in the course of this general debate. At the end of this "epochal" time window, we may add a real right of control to these "epochal" rights, which Mrs Fekter has listed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12134	Mr Stadler, as far as your chair is concerned, we only wanted to demonstrate once how necessary it is to rebuild the meeting room. – But you can hopefully sit back on a repaired chair tomorrow. Next, Mr Scheibner. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12158	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has now used the word “epochal” for this debate a few times. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You understood the undertone, didn't you?]] – Of course I understood the undertone. I have learned something about it today, namely that after many years in Parliament, we can also see that Mr Stadler is well-belief, especially with Mr Cap. – Or was there an undertone there? - Unfortunately, I didn't get that. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Herbert, if Cap becomes a righteous believer, I can also be well-believed!]] – Yes, but I doubt one thing, and that is why the other, Mr Stadler, surprises me. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] If Mr Cap says that the proceedings in the two current committees of inquiry are already presupposers of minority rights, I say first of all: For God's sake, these are not good predictions, because all those who have spoken of the opposition today on the subject of minorities show what it is like to have a majority and to use this majority too! That's not the way it is: There is a majority who currently have the opposition to the government parties, and it is being exploited! – That’s no question at all! So what is being criticized here is being done at the same time – except for the opposition, which currently has a majority. Two points – I don't want to talk about climate in committees or other topics –: There is the largest financial scandal in the history of the Second Republic. You can discuss whether there are 3 or 4 billion euros of damage. One could say, of course, that justice is determined, that it has already finished the charges, that there is a political background – at least different things to investigate – so you can really talk about it, there is room and an important space for an investigation committee. What is the majority doing with this question now? – One does not now examine the political backgrounds – was there also movement of money to political parties, to politicians, to presidents, to trade unions, since there are flows of money from professional interest representatives to parties to explain? – no, you don’t want to know everything, but you invite all the banks, you look: What does financial market supervision do, what does the Minister of Finance, who has not been in office at the time? That suddenly becomes interesting, and then you get on it yourself: Halt, this might harm the banking location and economic location of Austria!, and then row back. But one has done with this majority of one: There is no longer any discussion on this financial scandal and on these political backgrounds that it has been clarifying, Mr Oellinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Well, I'm waiting. They have always defended what has been, or at least destroyed - not defended, but destroyed. [[Abg. Oil: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Not even destroyed!]] Second point: the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. – I also say: In principle, we can be of the opinion that any procurement that has a greater volume can be really discussed, including with parliamentarians. At present, the system is different: As Parliamentary instruments, we have the Court of Auditors which examines these things. [[Abg. Oillinger: But not political responsibility!]] The Court of Auditors has presented three reports on this matter, Mr Oellinger. There have been some suspicions, indications, they have all been put down; no court proceedings, no evidence of negative things. Nevertheless, there is no question of the committee of inquiry. Only, Mr Cap, you said: Minority rights!, and also Mr Kogler said: Minority rights! – And then there is the request of a minority, namely a government party, but a minority in this committee, to invite the President of the Court of Auditors, i.e. those who, in the course of three reports, probably better than all of us – the members of this committee have a document, but nevertheless: better than we all know – this procedure has been examined three times a week, but the majority in this committee says no to this request to load the President of the Court of Auditors. Mr Cap, Mr Kogler: Is that what Mr Cap has just said about the positive rights of minorities in the future? Mr Stadler, I think that this advance of confidence was missing here. [[Abg. Oillinger: If the request is supported by you, you can do it!]] No, it will go exactly in the direction we know from the nineties: Where there is a majority – whether this is government or opposition – who has the majority determines! - That's how you show it. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is why I give you the right to: As you do in the two committees of inquiry, these are really the advances, but the bad advances for the future! And I'll tell you personally: I am in favour of the establishment of committee of inquiry as a minority right. I was always in the opposition for it, I was also in the government – read the minutes in the Constitutional Convention: I'm for that! However, it is also necessary to define criteria for the establishment – whether this is a numerical restriction, whether it is based on the fact that there have been judicial proceedings, that there are, in fact, also criminal suspicions with a political background, one can discuss them. [[Abg. Oils: But really not!]] One thing we should avoid, Mr Oellinger, is that this important control instrument in Parliament is dragging down as much as other important control instruments. [[Abg. Oils: Used!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You want it not to be used!]] No, quite the contrary, but I do not want it to go down like the special meetings, such as the urgent questions and even the requests for distrust. [[Abg. Oils: It has never been used under your government!]] I admit, Mr Oellinger, that the SPÖ has not been able to develop these instruments in terms of quality, but it is also due to the quantity of input that ultimately suffered the sharpness of these control instruments. Therefore, on the question of design as a minority right – but really useful and wherever it is necessary. [[Abg. Oillinger: Read our request!]] But, Mr Oillinger, no shawl sound, and don't say we're doing better, because: You now have the majority, you could show that you can do it better and really give it to the minority according to these rights, but in practice you do exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12373	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the provisions: In 2 minutes the corrective and then the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12399	Madam President. Mr Scheibner claimed that the Committee of Inquiry on Banking Supervision did not review the political responsibility for the BAWAG banking scandal. - That's not right! I'm actually correcting: The Committee of Inquiry already considers that, according to the request made by this Assembly by a majority, the examination of political responsibility is expressly included. Member of the Scheibner has also claimed that we are presenting the banks in a number of ways in this committee by a majority. - That's not right! I'm actually correcting: We invite together – by the way always agreeable, that is, with the agreement of all political groups – those persons who can inform us about how the institutions failed to monitor and what political responsibility there is. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12438	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12460	Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the question of minority rights has been in place for a long time, and I believe that there is also a clear need for improvement from our group, and in the past there have been repeated applications for it. Mr Fekter's speech has been clearly commented on. I think that a list of the Rules of Procedure is not enough, but I can only consider it as an opening of the discussion, which must then follow where an inventory is taken. [[Abg. Oils: You are an optimist!]] With regard to the monitoring procedure which has already been discussed here today, I would like to point out very briefly that Vienna as the first federal state in 2001 has created the opportunity to set up a control commission for minority groups, and this has proved to be a good thing. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With a lot of restrictions!]] Since 2001, there has been this possibility, and I think that has proved to be very, very well. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: How many committees of inquiry were there?]] There have been several. In one I still sat myself in 2001, that was the one on the surface. And there have been a number of others next. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we are in principle in agreement with the applicants: A more democracy, a more More control is important and will certainly bring more dynamic and more prestige to parliamentarianism. However, I would like to point out very briefly that a number of points need to be discussed when amending the Rules of Procedure, which require a qualified majority here in this House. I only think of two points, two points, which are particularly important to me: One is a check in relation to requests. It is therefore a question of how to ensure that members of the government comply with their legal obligation and actually provide answers. That's, I think, a point you need to look at. A second point, which is also very important to me, is that issues, applications that the government is unpleasant, can always be postponed or postponed indefinitely. This shows only about the following figures: In the last legislative period, exactly in August, we had 455 applications that were uncompleted, which were postponed, 443 of which were of the two opposition parties. – As I mean, there must be a change. It would be possible for Members to call for a vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In principle, I mean: The rights of the minority groups are to be strengthened and strengthened! The time for that is ripe! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12535	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 9/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-12-14-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12565	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 62/A to 84/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 168/J to 194/J has also been received. Finally, a question by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues were brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5 p.m. The sitting is closed.
