ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1201	I'll open the 148. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a correspondingly supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure were convened, so this is a special meeting. The official protocols of 145. Meeting of 26 and 27. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In April 2006, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Puswald, Schieder, Dr. Bleckmann, Bucher, Wittauer and Dr. Gabriela Moser are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1235	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs Dr. Hans Winkler. [[09:06:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1271	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1396	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed in this way and go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1421	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached at the Presidential Conference: The following Rules of Procedure shall be adopted for the period from 9.05 a.m. to 12 p.m., which shall be transmitted by the ORF: First of all, a speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany with 14 minutes each, one word per group with 14 minutes, another word by a member of the government with 10 minutes, another word per group with 10 minutes, then a word by another member of the government with 10 minutes, and finally one word per group with 10 minutes. Before the end of the final round, after consultation with the club presidents, the remaining speaking time will be distributed to the four political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups speak evenly. There is agreement that no actual corrections will be made. The House decides on this speaking time. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – Mr Club Secretary of the Greens agrees, or how do I see that? – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. [[09:07:49]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1391, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on Liability for the Financing of Railway Material (EUROFIMA Act) (1446 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law, with which a federal law on the acceptance of liability for the future assurance of BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeits und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse AG was created, the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2006 and the National Bank Act 1984 were amended and a federal law on the acquisition of shares of the Austrian National Bank was created (1447 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1484	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — The debate is closed. His speaking time: 14 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1511	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the special meeting as soon as possible, so that we can secure the Federal Laws to secure the BAWAG P.S.K. As soon as possible, it will also be possible to make a legitimate decision. I also welcome trade union presidents Hundstorfer and the Director-General of BAWAG P.S.K. Ewald Novotny. First: The last week was a dramatic weekend ahead of us. We had billions of complaints from Refco creditors against BAWAG in the USA. Accounts worth hundreds of millions of dollars in the U.S. were confiscated, and by removing uncertain savers there was a capital outflow, own funds outflow, liquidity outflow of BAWAG in the order of several hundred million €. It was therefore necessary to act quickly, professionally, prudently and in particular together. We present to you today a proposal that the Federal Government, the ÖGB, the banks – and hopefully also the Parliament – carry, that is, a federal liability of up to €900 million, limited to 1. July next year – with extension options under certain circumstances. Furthermore, fresh money, equity replacement of Austrian banks in the order of € 450 million, subject to approval by their bodies, is therefore the possibility of an accelerated sale of BAWAG P.S.K. has been given – and an effective and persistent Enlightenment. Thus, the savers and customers of BAWAG are secured, a 2005 balance sheet can be created and sales can be made professionally. The good reputation of the Austrian financial and banking centre remains preserved. The ÖGB is able to carry out its task and responsibility as a sole owner – and the Austrian social partnership remains what is important to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] On the question: Why is this really necessary, why did this dramatic situation come about? – The new ÖGB leadership has asked me for some dates to talk to me about the current situation. I've been looking at the calendar and I can say: We still offered an appointment on the same day, which was also accepted, regardless of whether it was now on 30. ==References====External links==* Official website On April 27, 2006, the Director-General of BAWAG Professor Dr. Ewald Novotny and ÖGB President Hundstorfer, or just on April 27, 2006. April. The week from 24 to 28. April 2006 is the key week, and she was indeed dramatic: On Tuesday, 25. April, an American judge has approved a $1.3 billion lawsuit – but the court’s decision has at the same time frozen the BAWAG’s accounts and assets in the US, with the threat that this is also possible in other financial places with which America has corresponding agreements. On the next two days – also triggered by a massive media coverage – on Wednesday and Thursday, massive withdrawals began, especially dramatic on Thursday. On Thursday, as you know, we had Special Council of Ministers for the Re-establishment of the Republic 61 years ago, and in the afternoon I together with Vice-Chancellor Gorbach made the opening of the southeast bypass of Vienna, the S 1, in Vösendorf. And during this opening, a phone call came to ask for an appointment as fast as possible – that was on 27 May. The date was then agreed by 6 p.m. – I naturally invited Mr Finanzminister and Mr Vice-Chancellor – and there we first learned the extent of drama to the full extent that it was legally foreseeable. I then had a talk. At night I asked Governor Liebscher for me, and we discussed the situation as far as midnight – Deputy Chancellor, Finance Minister, Governor Liebscher and I – together. ==References== We then put ourselves together again at 7 a.m. in the ÖGB-Führung district, BAWAG and PSK, government and central bank. We then agreed, on Saturday and Sunday, the days after, to allow for a direct comparison with the lawyers, Director General Novotny and his deputy Koren to fly to London, and we will immediately thereafter, on 1. May, in the evening put together again in the same circle to discuss the situation, especially in the light of an arbitrary settlement, a comparison with the American lawyers, and the government. We did not yet have a final comparison at 5 p.m., but certain elements that are still being negotiated to this day – I think an agreement is definitely tangible, but it is not yet 100 percent there. It is very important to know that from this point on we could only really act in concrete terms, otherwise it would have been like this: Hardly had American lawyers heard that the government was ready in any form, of course the cost of comparison would have increased significantly. At 9 p.m., we have been teaching Austrian banks and insurance companies, who then, on behalf of their institutes and subject to the serious consent, have declared that they will take up up up to €450 million in fresh capital. I reached opposition chairman Gusenbauer at night and informed him about it – he also agreed to this package – and Professor Van der Bellen talked to the phone the night and the next day he telephoned. It is important to see this sequence, for on the evening of the 1st century. May has for the first time informed the ÖGB leadership that neither the BAWAG nor the ÖGB as the sole owner are able to ensure the financing of this comparison. The time had come to negotiate a concrete Austrian rescue package for BAWAG. Two points are particularly important: First of all, the 2005 balance sheet has to be properly drawn up – no other banks can be prepared to do so, which the ÖGB could not guarantee either. Therefore, this rescue package, this safeguard package is very important and essential for the creation of the 2005 balance sheet, and it is in turn the prerequisite that a sale can be achieved professionally and also with good profit, with good profit. Ladies and gentlemen! We have not easily granted a liability of the Republic – it is money of taxpayers that may be used – so this liability is also limited in time and can only be used if the ÖGB as sole owner fulfils its obligations. And in order that every Austrian can be sure that these obligations have been used and that his tax money is not used unlawfully, we have agreed to disclose the assets of the ÖGB. I know very well that this is not easy – this is also not easy for the ÖGB. We wanted to be very careful, conscious and cautious and therefore agreed on a third party who enjoys common trust – these are Governor Liebscher and his team in the Austrian National Bank, which will certainly do this well. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, Austria is very well standing, you can never forget that in these times, even in difficult moments. Especially in the financial, banking and stock exchange area, Vienna has made a rather spectacular positive development over the last six years. The capitalization of the stock market has quadrupled from 30 billion to 120 billion over the last six years. Austria's banks and insurance companies are heavily internationally active, have achieved great success and are creating and thus securing approximately 250 000 jobs – in industry, banks, insurance companies – in Austria. The path of Austrian economic and financial policy was also and is always straightforward and predictable and has proven itself. We have over 50 000 additional jobs within a year. Austria is one of those countries that have their budget in order and not yet, but therefore have an above-average growth of around 2.5 percent. We not only save the right place, but at the same time invest in research, development, infrastructure and security. Ladies and gentlemen! A collapse of the BAWAG P.S.K. – I say this in the awareness of the importance of what I am saying here – would have put all this at risk: the trust of Austrian savers and customers, the trust of international financial markets in the Austrian financial centre, and last but not least, a collapse would have cost us a lot of money. The Federal Government is solely responsible for this institution with €5.5 billion from the old P.S.K., and through deposit guarantee (1) and (2) the entire financial and banking place of Austria would have been affected – ultimately, of course, also the Austrian taxpayer. So that this path of success is not threatened, we have to secure the BAWAG P.S.K. Definitely. Ladies and gentlemen! A therapy, a cure will only be possible and successful if the diagnosis is comprehensive and honest. That is why the past has to be explained and explained without delay, as President Hundstorfer and Governor Liebscher, even all the major politicians of the opposition and government parties, have long called for. This continuous investigation will also be necessary in the interest of cleanliness and error prevention for the future. This is important for the ÖGB, which has to represent the interests of its workers in a globalised economy, especially today. This is important for the social partners, who only live if the strong over-party representation of both workers and the economy and farmers is guaranteed. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore ask you to give your full support to this package of safeguards. It is not a conclusion to the necessary work of the past – it must be done by those involved themselves, economically in the bank and in the ÖGB and politically as well – but rather the consent to an Austrian solution for the BAWAG P.S.K., it is also the approval of the future, to the future of the Austrian social partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1562	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His speaking time is also 14 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1583	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely was a special meeting as necessary as today's. Extraordinary circumstances in the past make this unusual step necessary, namely that on the basis of a proposal from the Austrian Federal Government, Parliament is making a state liability for a bank. On behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to say clearly and unmistakably about this step. That's necessary, that's right. And we would like to thank Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, Vice Chancellor Gorbach and Minister of Finance Grasser that at this necessary pace consistent, fast and properly together with those responsible of the Trade Union Confederation and the BAWAG P.S.K. Bank was traded. That was correct and necessary for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But we should, of course, be aware of the causes and light up the causes of this exceptional situation on this day when we decide on this legal step – I hope, together and unanimously. I think it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we do so in the necessary clarity and precision. At the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s, those responsible at that time started high-risk speculation operations in the Caribbean. The then Director General has lent his son loans so that he could speculate in highly risky transactions. There have then been first and serious problems in the 1990s, and these transactions have been stopped in the mid-1990s. But, ladies and gentlemen – and we need to know this and to clarify it mercilessly – despite these problems, these transactions were resumed in the mid-1990s, although the difficulties were clearly mentioned at the time. These transactions have been resumed with the agreement of those responsible at the time, including the Supervisory Board. These bodies of responsibility at the time could or did not seem to have been able to carry out their responsibilities properly. These high-risk transactions have resulted in losses in billions. But that's not enough. It was then started around the turn of the millennium 2000 by those responsible at the time at Bank Deals, business with brokers in the USA. It is a foundation, at least one, which no one knew about, in Liechtenstein, where these transactions were partly carried out. There were obviously managers who could do and let what they wanted – and who were still rewarded by finishing up, by new jobs and exclusive housing in penthouses. And these steps have also been made possible by a Supervisory Board which obviously did not want to or could not assume its responsibility. This incredible crime, ladies and gentlemen, has caused considerable damage. He has done material and image damage to the fourth largest bank in Austria, BAWAG P.S.K. ==References== April – from my point of view quite rightly – President Hundstorfer spoke of a “dramatic situation for the bank and the union association”. These incredible incidents, ladies and gentlemen, have led to a massive uncertainty of the 1.4 million savers and customers of BAWAG P.S.K. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These incredible processes have caused economic and political damage to the owner of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. At the end of the day, these incredible operations presented a real risk to Austria's financial and banking centre. I can therefore only say again: The Federal Government, together with Wolfgang Schüssel at the head, has done the right thing with this state liability, so that in agreement with the Trade Union Confederation and the Bank BAWAG P.S.K. this future perspective. Not least because of this, the President of the Trade Union Federation has also thanked Hunttorfer at the Federal Government for this, ladies and gentlemen – and I say, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] This will secure the bank's future, it will allow for an orderly sale of the bank, and we expect a quick sale. With this step, the Federal Government and Parliament have contributed to the stability of the Austrian financial centre and have ultimately made a contribution, both to the Federal Government and, as I hope, to Parliament by a large majority, that the owner of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation will continue to have a strong role as a social partners in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a clear confirmation from a survey. 64 percent of Austrians welcome and support this route. But in exactly the same clarity, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians naturally demand that the sole owner of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation fully assume his responsibility as the owner and comply with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The taxpayers who may at least have to contribute up to €900 million – we hope not, but it is not excluded – simply have the right to have the clear commitment from the union union – and I assume that there is it – that the union union is responsible for its ownership. They also expect the Trade Union Confederation to find its overparty – I say openly – again, to ensure transparency and to live democratic normality, for example, in the sense of control. And, ladies and gentlemen, in this survey 66 percent of Austrians demand merciless information. Continueless reconnaissance and persistent detection are in need. This is what we, ladies and gentlemen, are guilty of, together, the taxpayers, the Austrians and the financial, economic and banking centre of Austria. This uncompromising Enlightenment, ladies and gentlemen, must follow! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I'm not alone with this claim: President Hundstorfer demands this uncompromising reconnaissance, Michael Häupl demands her, Alfred Gusenbauer asks her, Alexander Van der Bellen asks her. This is clearly in the interests of all parties. And I certainly do not allow it to happen that if a party puts its fingers on wounds, it will then be kept “tactic” because if it is right that all interest in education is correct, then hopefully everyone will also make their contribution to it, ladies and gentlemen, all the parties! [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] However, there is not only the obligation to clarify with all consequence, but also the obligation to draw from it the necessary consequences. We expect the contribution to this information from the Trade Union Confederation, we expect the contribution to the information of all the political parties in this country, we expect the contribution to the information of the responsible persons in the BAWAG P.S.K. and in the trade union federation, also in the past, ladies and gentlemen. No one can take responsibility by silence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We assume that the independent judicial system – of course in the interests of the people, in the interests of all Austrians who simply have a right to it – makes their contribution, without regard to rank and persons. We from the Austrian People's Party trust in independent justice and expect independent justice from these necessary and, I assume, criminal consequences. I think it is also right for Austrian media to deal intensively with this issue, and it is also clear that politics in Austria, all political leaders, has their commitment in this sense. Today, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, a decisive step is being taken to ensure the future of the BAWAG P.S.K., today a decisive step is taken for the stability and security of the Austrian financial centre, and today a decisive step is taking place for the future capacity of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation – and thus also a strong employee representation and a strong social partnership. But just as the step towards ensuring the future must be taken today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, with the same consequence and clarity of each step towards the education and responsibility of those responsible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these steps towards education and the Drawing on the political consequences will follow – and from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party must also follow. This is what we are talking about. Tax payers are simply guilty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1744	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. His speaking time is also 14 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1765	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is an important day for the future of one of the largest Austrian banking institutions, and it is an important day for the Austrian financial centre and, of course, an important day for the more than 6,000 employees at the BAWAG P.S.K. Group, which really cannot be envied, because what they have had to endure in recent weeks without being able to do anything for this situation has been extraordinary. I would like to say clearly and clearly that our first solidarity belongs to the employees of the BAWAG P.S.K. Group. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a very remarkable, very sad and most amazing matter, which presents itself with this damage at the BAWAG P.S.K. Group that it was possible for a small group of people over years to have made at least highly risky, if not even prohibited speculation transactions, without – without! – that the many existing control bodies had taken part. In Austria, we have a very, very pronounced control scenario: starting from the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, through the role of the owner to the financial market supervision. In fact, we have assumed so far that this should be a functioning system, one that ensures that such things are clarified early and that further damage is avoided. However, we must note that, although there is such a sophisticated control system, this obviously did not work 100%, because, in some cases, the energy and the intention and, if one wants to do so, the criminal intelligence of individual operators was also better marked than the control bodies we have in Austria for these issues. Therefore, I think it is important to draw two or three consequences from the whole: First: Of course, it is necessary to clarify everything, and to make it clear to the Board of Directors mercilessly, as far as all supervisory councils are concerned, as far as the owners are concerned, without regard to rank and names – I share this view. The courts have to determine which action must be taken not only by criminal law, but also by civil law. I think it is in the sense of hygiene, also political hygiene, that there is broad clarity. But the second thing that needs to be examined is of course how the failure of the entire control mechanism can lead to consequences for the future. Since Mr Klubobmann Molterer meant that this would be an important step, I ask the question why we did not actually reach a consensus here in the House that there is a comprehensive committee of inquiry dealing with this issue. Greens and Social Democracy have called for such an investigation committee to be set up – unfortunately, the government parties have not gone along. I believe that such a committee of inquiry would be the best way to inform without delay all that is necessary to make it better in the future, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We have a Court of Auditors Subcommittee!]] The third consequence that needs to be drawn is of course that the owner, the Austrian trade unions, bear the full ownership responsibility. But I think this responsibility has the border, which has now been formulated in the law. The trade union association should not first go into bankruptcy so that the trade union association and the BAWAG may be taken up under the circumstances, but the trade union association has to go to the border in its ownership responsibility. But before the Austrian trade unions go into bankruptcy, it is necessary that the liability of the Republic becomes effective. I am therefore very glad that this clarification has been achieved in the law, because this is a vital condition for the future presence of powerful trade unions and workers' representatives in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The need – you have to speak louder in calls, I hear you so badly – is the need for strong trade unions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You only hear what you want to hear! That's incredible!]] . I do not know what honourable Member Scheuch means when he speaks of “serious” when talking about the need for strong Austrian trade unions. Do you have a problem with a strong employee representation? Then tell me! I say that Austria urgently needs a strong employee representation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Especially in a situation where distribution conditions in the world and also in Austria are not the most fair, in which many workers feel that they are not getting their fair share of the wealth that is generated, especially in such a situation, it is urgent to point out that we in Austria need strong workers' representatives and trade unions. They are the prerequisite for a social balance in our country, and we value them as social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Neudeck: The party-independent wouldn't be bad either!]] I assume that the Austrian trade unions with all the political groups they carry are aware of from the Christian group to the social democrats and all the others, which is the challenge they face, namely the challenge of carrying out their core task, the representation of the interests of workers, and that they also have to fulfil this task under changed and more difficult conditions for them. [[Abg. Amon: Why?]] Of course, the change is also necessary because our labour market has changed. There are, as you know, many atypical employees, barber workers, many people who are not covered by classical labour law, and it is necessary that the Austrian trade unions represent all the working people in our country. This is the challenge facing the trade unions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't quite understand your excitement. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. School: That's the bad conscience!]] It is about a process of political responsibility, it is about the fact that today, in a situation where an Austrian banking institution is in great difficulties, the Austrian National Council assumes its responsibility for the economic location and for the employees, and I think that your reactions between excitement and joy are not at all adapted in this case, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I asked myself the question of how long you can control yourself. The Federal Chancellor managed to do it for 14 minutes, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer for a large part of his speech too, but in the back ranks the discipline is obviously no longer given, as the joy of the election struggle breaks through. – I say to you: People notice this and are right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are talking about the Austrian social partners in this context, we must also say clearly: The sale of the National Bank shares to the Republic is a step that is now being taken by this law. However, if you place so much emphasis on the Austrian social partners, I am already asking myself why part of the Austrian social partners, namely the employee representation, should no longer be represented in the Austrian National Bank in the future. If one wants a strong social partnership on an equal footing, it would be useful for the employee representation to continue to be represented in the National Bank. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second possibility, and this too should be discussed openly, would be: Do we want to have a completely different structure for the future of the Austrian National Bank, no more those elected after 1945, after which 50 percent of the Republic and 50 percent of the main social partnership institutions are owners? Remember to make a change in the ownership structure at all – with this step of re-nationalization, which has now at least been set – then, I would say, it would be useful to have a comprehensive discussion on the role of the National Bank. I think that social partnership ownership has at least proved successful in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Social Democracy will, of course, contribute to the package here today, because it is a matter of the Austrian National Council taking responsibility, especially for the security of investors who have indeed been very uncertain. I have met people on the street who have carried away their savings in the plastic sack, because, as they have said, they have lost their money once in the 1930s and do not want to lose it a second time. These have been very dramatic situations for the people concerned, therefore, I think, all the contributions that have contributed to the warming of the mood and to the uncertainty of investors have not been good contributions. I think today is a good contribution – which has happened partly before, not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, it is to be hoped that on the basis of today's decisions... – The bad conscience must really plague some in this House very much! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] The most important thing today is that with these decisions we take here in the National Council, the new leadership of the BAWAG has the opportunity to consolidate the Institute, that its employees have a safe workplace, and that the uncertainty of the 1.4 million investors is terminated. If this is achieved, we have made a good contribution with today's decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e1980	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He too has 14 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2001	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true, Mr Gusenbauer, that today is an important day – not a beautiful day, an important day – for the banking location in Austria, an important day for investors and savers. The solidarity with the employees of BAWAG is also important and correct. And it's also right to say that you shouldn't break out in triumph, just because you might have caught a political opponent or anyone at the wrong foot. Everything is right – but one thing is not appropriate on that day, Mr Gusenbauer: This self-congratulation that you have shown here, and the way you want nothing to do with the whole thing. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] We have experienced this before in the mid-1990s, when the first scandal became public with speculation. At that time, the SPÖ suddenly said that this was all ÖGB, she didn't do anything at all. - That's it. They have spoken of “criminal intelligence as fewer actants. ” Who are you talking about? The criminal intelligence of those acting in the ÖGB or at the BAWAG – is Mr Vergestnich? Do you think so? He was a highly respected SPÖ mandatar until recently. Was this Mr. Tumpel, to whom you still make the wall? He has been Chairman of the Supervisory Board during this important phase of 1995/1996 and is now President of the Chamber of Workers. Is he what you meant by criminal intelligence? Or is it Mr Elsner, who has been rewarded for his speculations with a 300 000-€ job in the lotteries, which he left only a few weeks ago? He has been head of the Foundation in the ÖGB, which also belongs to Mrs Hostasch, former Minister of Social Affairs of the SPÖ, as I believe. Are those you mean less with the criminal intelligence that has caused all of this? Or who else do you mean? You didn't say that. I also give you the right to: Austria needs a strong union, a strong employee representation! Of course! For this very reason, we have also decided on this not easy step, because at last we are talking about €900 million of taxpayers' money. The taxpayer – whether a member of the ÖGB or not – is liable for the survival of the ÖGB. That's actually a paradox! It is usually the case that a trade union, an employee's representative in opposition to the government, is in charge of ensuring that the government does not curtail the rights of the trade union. In Austria, this felt between SPÖ, a bank and some officials in the Trade Union Confederation has brought the ÖGB to the brink of the abyss and that now a federal government and a national council and the population of Austria ensure that this ÖGB remains alive in an incredible solidarity. You should put this right here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] The chronology of this criminal case and this sign also list a political co-responsibility here, for that there is no time. Impeccable Enlightenment – of course! The opposition calls for the establishment of an investigation committee. – Yes, it will probably be the time to highlight the political backgrounds of this whole affair, but – and you know that is our principle and that has proved to be the right thing – we believe that the courts should first examine, first should the relevant authorities investigate and then, if the corresponding convolut over the scandal is on the table, we will also examine the political backgrounds. I'm afraid there's going to be a lot more going on, because you're just admitting what's absolutely proveable. This is also a typical motto: Just admit what you can prove to be 100 percent! - What's going on? You, Mr Gusenbauer, have, as I believe, at any party meeting on 22 February. In April of this year, the BAWAG damage suffered from six years ago has already been repaired. The second damage, namely the formation of this government, was to be remedied during the next National Council elections. – This is political agitation: They're pretending they've been all right, and the next scandal, Desana, Liechtenstein Foundation, and so on. Everything in everything should be considered It is not self-evident to criticize the government and the Chancellors and all the others, but to take part in the fact that a complete investigation of this scandal can take place, that the debtors will be held responsible and that there will not continue to be, in part, supervisory councils and functions such as workers' chamber president Tumpel, that there will be consequences here and that there will also be a contribution to the reduction of damage. I believe that this too should be expressed here and seen to mean that the system, which is co-responsible for this damage, is being modified accordingly. You said it yourself: The controls have failed! . I do not know if the control mechanisms have failed, because I do not think that only Mr Weninger and Mr Vergestnich knew everything by themselves. This would mean that the ÖGB is run worse than any football club or Schrebergartenverein. All over these associations, there is a responsibility for a board of directors to decide on the financial transactions. There is a four-eye principle there, there are control mechanisms there – but in a billion-dollar company like the ÖGB, affected by the SPÖ accordingly, shouldn't there be all this?- Oh, my God! You may be able to tell us that, believe we don't, but you will have to question that too! This liability of € 900 million is also important for us. I have said that we have decided to do this because the bank is important to us and because the continuation of the ÖGB is also important to us. What we don't want is for the taxpayer to be involved in the privileges of some of the ÖGB's top officials. Now the ÖGB also has a responsibility to end these pension privileges, treatment privileges, multiple payments. It cannot be that on the one hand, no appropriate collective agreements are negotiated for trade workers, but it is itself that the officials continue to be financed. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] The system, Mr Gusenbauer, and there you too are asked to have this restriction on the part of the party and in the case of your party, the SPÖ, of economic undertakings and the representation of interests, this restriction and this filtration must have an end! But we're still waiting for your insight. See ARBÖ, the next scandal story, which is a little bit covered. The SPÖ functionaries are now all fleeing from their functions in the ARBÖ, one gets one another and also top-level, higher than that of the Federal Chancellor, are paid off – in the case of a driver's organisation! The only consequence is that a SPÖ functionary at the top should be replaced by another SPÖ functionary. Is that your thinking: There as here in the ÖGB, these are our spheres of power, we do not let anyone look in, and if we already have to replace someone who has done anything or who can prove it, then of course only one of us, because this is our realm of power!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is the thinking that people are really tired, Mr Gusenbauer! You're shaking your head? - I'll explain it to you. The financial debacle of the ÖGB has reasons. I heard yesterday the statements of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vrannitzky, who meant that the whole was to blame the Federal Government, and at that time the former Vice-Cancellor Susanne Riess-Passer, for she forced the ÖGB into these financial structures, for example, that the wealth – I hope there is one more in the ÖGB – is outsourced to foundations. The Federal Government had forced the ÖGB. – It did not force it, but we have taken care of it or wanted to ensure that associations, like the ÖGB, which were supposed to be non-profit in those days, but actually operate billions of businesses, as well as any other company, are subject to the relevant tests. It is a normal thing, but you have failed out of this control and set up these foundations so that you can't see why you can't control what happens to the workers' money. This is the lack of control that you should criticize instead of saying that unfortunately the authorities were concerned. There's a conscious evasion of control. If it is criticised that the pension provisions were due to the fact that one could no longer balance accordingly. – Yes, we confess that workers should not be affected in their claims, for example, as regards handling, just because some of the officials are paying the money. That was an important task for the Federal Government that we have just met the workers' institution, because it wanted to do speculations with this money, which we would not even have thought. It is reserved for you to present it accordingly on the serving plate. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] The question is: Why must employee representation act like an economic company – without having the appropriate mechanisms? Why does the ÖGB have to be the owner of hotels? Why do you have to run an opinion research institute? Maybe you can then present surveys the way you need it. What do you need a shoe chain for? Why do you have to participate in a casino in Jericho, where over 100 million people now have liability? These are the things that we also want to discuss. What we also want to discuss – even there is no corresponding answer – is: What financial flows exist between the ÖGB and the political parties, especially the SPÖ? Mr Gusenbauer, you said – even yesterday again in the “press hour” – that there was and is no funding from the ÖGB to the SPÖ. You said you could completely rule this out. – You nod, that is, it is. Good. It is only interesting to see the other in your own party, for example, Mr Caspar One, who said in a press conference in April, these financial flows, namely from the ÖGB to the SPÖ, are quite normal, after all, the Socialist Trade Unionists' Group in the ÖGB is a part-organisation of the SPÖ. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP]] So what's right now, Mr Gusenbauer? Is your clarification correct? – In this case, I believe the Minister is out of service One, because Mr Bures has also confirmed it. But your balance sheets also confirm it. And you have not yet said what is to be understood in your account report under this paragraph. What is the meaning of "donations of public law agencies and of professional and economic associations based on voluntary membership"? I repeat: voluntary membership of professional associations. - That's the ÖGB! Ladies and gentlemen, you will have €13.3 million in five years from 1997 to 2002 – I stress: 13,3 million €! – get donations from these institutions to the SPÖ cash registers! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Aha!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have not explained this to this day. If there is only one euro in the FSG of union funds, then you should have the political will to repay it too! That would be a minimum contribution to the reduction of damage! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] In the same way, the ÖGB will be asked whether it is willing to return the €70 million in special dividends that it received from BAWAG in 2004 to reduce damage, because if the budget looks such that it can be distributed to its own political groups so much money that they cannot use it for their own task, but can transfer it to the political parties – in particular the SPÖ – then these budgets are apparently too high and then you can also do much to reduce damage. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, once said that BAWAG should not be an election topic. - No, don't! - Yes, you laugh! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] I would like to know how you would have acted if something like this had happened in another area. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] No, not the BAWAG will be the election topic, not the ÖGB – which is important to us as an employee's representative – but the system behind it! That must be the subject! We have succeeded in working out this felt and this linkage from politics, economy and society in many areas – unfortunately not everything yet! We will still need some time, but we are working hard on it, because we do not want to have for Austria in the future such conditions as you may have.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2101	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. His speaking time is 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2122	Mr President. It is undoubtedly a historic day today Not all days is to save a bank – and I wish we would not have to experience this historic day. [[Call the ÖVP:Leider!]] The rescue of BAWAG is not a matter of course, but it is a necessity – a bitter necessity! The debakel was called upon by a meeting of unscrupulous old BAWAG managers, the lack of awareness of certain ÖGB officials in BAWAG and a complete failure of all control mechanisms – whether the Supervisory Board, whether the internal revision or the supervision of the financial market – both internally and externally. The rescue of BAWAG is, as I said, a bitter necessity. For the political agreement on Monday evening, it was high time for the draft law of last Thursday on the rescue of BAWAG in the financial committee of this Parliament, for if that had not happened, then it would have been most likely a run on the BAWAG bank desk last week. The BAWAG should have closed its switches that the assets of the ÖGB as sole owner would certainly not have been able to cover this damage. As a result, the bank's deposit guarantee would be so to speak burned through, because, as you have to know, it must be for the bank's deposit guarantee – not the savings banks, but the banks! – essentially the BAWAGs stand straight, and thus the deposit guarantee of all deposits would not have been guaranteed up to €20 000, i.e. those of the smaller savers, and the other banks and the federal government would have had to jump in. The impact on the banking square Vienna would then have been inevitable, in the sense: How do the ratings change? Do refinancing costs change with rising interest rates? Last but not least, the federal government would have come up with its remaining liability for the postal savings bank of around €5 billion – apart from the consequences for the “Verein ÖGB” and its balance sheet capacity – under the quotation mark. In other words: It is not only in the interest of BAWAG and the ÖGB and banks, but also in the interest of the interest, I would almost say to the general public – and thus also to the taxpayer – to prevent this crash. And that's why the BAWAG rescue is right! But, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, a professional rescue that proves economic competence, I imagine differently. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References== ==References== April, when the run was already under way on the BAWAG switch, the Federal Chancellor poured oil into the fire twice, and if the switches had been open on Saturday or Sunday or Monday – would have been! – then the Chancellor would have a co-responsible – I emphasize: a co-responsible! – worn on the BAWAG switch for the run. [[Call the ÖVP:We are!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But they're not!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: What the hell is this?]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This does not change the main responsibility of the former BAWAG managers or the ÖGB functionaries. But a professional approach wasn't that. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the theory, Professor!]] Last week, German Chancellor Schüssel announced in interviews that it was a natural goal – for example, I quote the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of Friday, 5th. May, where it is said that this is “in the interest of Austria’s financial centre and in the interest of a strong, independent union” – to save BAWAG. – I can only say: Yes! But what did we have to see on Thursday after a longer study of the draft law, which is available in the Financial Committee? – That this draft law is challenging if it does not make it necessary to send the ÖGB into bankruptcy before the federal government takes liability for the BAWAG. This, ladies and gentlemen, has led us to call for a change on Thursday and Friday last week, and I am very glad that today there is an amendment that, I hope, prevents this risk of the insolvency of the ÖGB from coming out of this title, namely for the BAWAG detention in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But that was already clear in the Financial Committee!]] But why did you even come to the idea of writing that into the law? Didn't you notice that yourself? Or was it in the end intention, as a now somewhat cynical political observer must assume, that you wrote in, but before, seriously, the 900 million of the federal government, the ÖGB must be sent into bankruptcy? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not how it was!]] So it is not in the law that you have the right, Mrs Colleague – but a finance minister as trustees of the Austrian tax money could have called at any time on these paragraphs in the draft law to say: Well, a letter from the ÖGB: Unfortunately, can't pay! It's not enough for me, before he has to go to court, and there it has to be proved that he's inability to pay! – So this, ladies and gentlemen, is a wormhead drop on this matter. Today, there is an amendment, and if we all hope that this case does not occur, the Federal Government will be liable with €900 million of tax money for the BAWAG – not with the savings books of the members of the government who last week felt like paying to the banker at Director General Novotny, which was a pretty political gesture, but no liability. [[Abg. Big truck: 12 billion schilling!]] It is still the money of taxpayers and taxpayers at stake. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But the government has not managed it!]] All those critics who say: As a taxpayer, how do I get to the handcushion in a serious case?, I say: Yes, this concern and concern we understand, I understand – but the ÖGB cannot carry this burden alone in a serious case, that is an illusion! Secondly, The ÖGB has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in the run-up to this story. It is bad enough that, if it still exists, the strike fund has been reduced to a minimum. Thirdly, the ÖGB will also have to disclose its finances under this law. I think that's right. That's painful – but right! I believe that not only the National Bank, as provided for in the law, has a right to experience the financial resources of the ÖGB in all its clarity, but also the ÖGB members who pay their contributions each month, and finally also the public, at the latest when the federal liability should occur – which we all do not hope for! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that is not to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we agree with all the points of this law. This concerns in particular the sale of the shares of the ÖGB and the BAWAG to the Austrian National Bank. There are already two questions. Firstly, the price of these shares. Secondly, Why BAWAG and ÖGB – but not everyone else? For the price it is to be said: The law says... [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Molterer and call: And this is an economic professor!]] Please listen, Mr Molterer. You'll have two minutes left! Is there any opinion at the cost of up to 33 million? Is there any serious basis on which this price has been determined? [[Abg. Oils: Thumbs!]] The two, BAWAG and ÖGB, together have 20 percent of OeNB. That would mean that the entire Austrian National Bank – 20 percent by five – is worth about €150 million. €150 million for the Austrian National Bank – the chickens are probably laughing! This is a humiliation of the ÖGB you're doing here. - That's about the price question. The second question is: Yes, there are good arguments that banks should not hold shares in the National Bank, because the National Bank is part of the banking supervision in that country, directly and indirectly! Again and again, the National Bank is tasked by financial market supervision with the task of examining banks – the same banks that are involved in the National Bank's base capital and which have their representatives in the National Bank's General Council. In fact: These are serious conflicts of interest – but with all banks! But who now remains in the OeNB General Council? – Raiffeisen, for example. [[Abg. Big Truck: There's no scandal!]] That's your banking policy? There's no conflict of interest? - Yes, the BAWAG is supposed to get out of OeNB! But not only the BAWAG, but all banks belong from the National Bank. This should have been done a long time ago – but today it is very special. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: I do not share the view of Mr Gusenbauer that the ÖGB should necessarily hold shares in the National Bank that interest representatives should be represented through equity in the National Bank General Council. I don't share this view! But who's left now? – The Economic Chambers and the Industrial Association continue to participate in the National Bank's primary capital. They're still allowed to sit in the National Bank's General Council? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: They didn't do Caribbean business!]] I don't think that's right! These institutions should also leave the National Bank! We shall make a request for this today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are still a few points left open. If you ask yourself the question: If today's law ensures that such cases do not occur again?, then you have to honestly answer: Probably not! In particular, the question is why the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance - the then Minister of Finance, who is still the Minister of Finance today, namely Karl-Heinz Grasser - did not respond to the 2001 report of financial market supervision, unless I was mistaken. It's been five years. A few weeks ago, Finance Minister Grasser told us here in Parliament, the parliamentarians, the untruth when he claimed that this report on BAWAG's Caribbean operations does not contain a word. That wasn't true! – Business with the volume of 350 million were discussed in detail, criticised, and drew attention to the problem of these transactions. Now there are two options: Either Grasser has deliberately told us the untruth, although he has read the report, or he has sloppy told us the untruth because he has not read the report thoroughly. Let's put that down. The fact is that even five years later, it is not clear why this report of financial market supervision was shubled by the Ministry of Finance de facto and the BAWAG was not monitored accordingly, so that it would have drawn the corresponding consequences from this report. In so far as the financial market supervision remains out here, it must be said: It somehow disappeared from the public interest. But I wonder, Why? What have the state commissioners done all the time in these years? Obviously, they didn't notice anything either! It was not just the ÖGB functionaries that were unsuspecting. There were also some bankers on the Supervisory Board, and there were always state commissioners, sent by the Ministry of Finance, on the Supervisory Board of BAWAG. Yes, if it is not guaranteed that this will be different in the future, that all these persons and institutions will take their business more seriously than before, then a future BAWAG case will not be completely excluded – although I do not know that there are special circumstances here! But I don't care about it today. It is also clear how the SPÖ and the ÖGB intend to deal with each other in future. Again: The Greens think it is wrong that the President of the ÖGB is also a member of the SPÖ's national council as a body in principle. This was the case with President Vergestnich for years or even decades. We think this is wrong! For good reasons, the President of the Chamber of Commerce Dr. Leitl is not a member of the ÖVP here in the National Council – but Mr. Neugebauer. This top-notch function in the ÖGB, namely that of the Chairman of the Public Service Trade Union, should not be associated with a National Council mandate. We don't think that's right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You will inevitably come into conflicts of interest, Mr deputies, if you have to negotiate with the Federal Chancellor on salaries, salary structures and so on, and on the other hand, you are the same Chancellor as your party chairman. [[Abg. Großruck: (showing towards SPÖ) Those over there should not sit here either!]] Of course, this also applies to Mr Katzian, who is not President of the ÖGB, but is chairman of an important sub-union, namely the trade union of private workers. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Consider this well, ladies and gentlemen of ÖGB and SPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2416	The Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2437	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciative Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I do not wish to address the details of the financial scandal and criminal cases surrounding the BAWAG and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, but the fact is that there is not a one-time speculation, or that two or three speculations would have been carried out, but that, after the first Caribbean scandal in 1994, one has decided in 1995 to go back into highly risky, speculative business, and that there has obviously been over ten years a pattern of highly risky speculation and lending, in which unfortunately God has lost well over 1000 million € – a pattern of behaviour of highly risky speculations, combined with the systematic attempt to conceal and cover these transactions and the high losses associated with the violation of reporting obligations, combined with the suspicion of a whole series of laws, which is why this affair around the BAWAG and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation is now also a case for the economic police, for the state lawyers and for the independent. Because you, Professor Van der Bellen – and I am glad that I am able to speak after you – have now, in turn, revitalized the control or referred to it several times in the last few weeks, I would first of all like to reject very clearly and massively that, as you say, I would have told the House the untruth. That's not right! In my statements on the urgent question, I have spoken about the fact that the National Bank Review Report does not contain a word about the losses from the Caribbean business. [[Abg. Oillinger: Of 350 million!]] I spoke about it in my statements – and Alfred Finz added this to it – that the Caribbean transactions, which amounted to €350 million, have been reduced according to the note bank report. That's what the note bank report says! In this way, there is no point in the entire bank report, in which there is any loss in it. The report was even accompanied by written confirmation of bank management that there were no business links with Mr Flöttl jun at that time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I can tell you very clearly if you address the control: The question of BAWAG and the question of the ÖGB and the question of the investment are a criminal case! And I'm deeply convinced: If you want to make this scandal a matter of supervision, you'll pass the facts and obviously have no primary interest in clarifying the real problem situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would like to quote you in connection with the Rieger bank at the end of the nineties. The quote is: “The problem is that every bank supervision is subject to the last abuse each time. Two years after the Barings scandal, we are following up. The reporting burden for the institutions is increasing, the Papierberg is growing – and see here: The acute problem in Austria is not that a large institution would have hidden something in the Papierberg, but that balance confirmations would be faked, and neither auditors nor supervisory authorities would be involved. With all responsibility of banking supervision: There are still instances that should also be part of it.” – Quotes. This was said in 1998 by Ferdinand Lacina on the question of whether banking supervision would not have failed in view of the Rieger plea. I can tell you, Professor Van der Bellen, that in the question of BAWAG, the failure of the control agencies is much, much clearer than in the Rieger case, because here the bank management on the one hand and the ÖGB Summit on the other, on the other hand, deliberately removed the first four steps of supervision, namely the board of directors, the internal revision, the Supervisory Board and the bank and auditors. That is why I believe that your accusation is wrong and is a party political one, and I claim for this Federal Government, for Alfred Finz and for me that we have done more than everyone else a strong, strong, well-equipped financial market supervision and will continue to do so because we have the highest interest in effective control. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Free – BZÖ]] [[Abg. Sburny: Did you know or not?]] [[Abg. Oils: They say the untruth!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: They say the untruth!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it affects this scandal and crime case around the BAWAG and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because here the money of savers and savers was speculated in a highly irresponsible way, at the end of the day also with the money of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and its members indirectly speculated and thus the Austrian Bank and the Finanzplatz Austria have been damaged. The seriousness of the situation is seen from the fact that today the legislator has to approve a liability of up to €900 million in order for the taxpayer to save the BAWAG. I can assure you that we did not make it easy for the taxpayer to decide, but in this extremely difficult situation, the Federal Government had to decide on this extraordinary rescue action – in the interest of the taxpayer, so that it would not be taken more into account in the interests of the savers, in the interest of some 6,000 employees who have come to the handcush, and also in the interest of the other banks and insurance institutions in Austria, the Vienna Stock Exchange, the Finanzplatz Austria. I am convinced that this is a correct and necessary step, a step that helps restore confidence in the financial area and the reputation of the Austrian financial centre. Up to €900 million of liability, €450 million of short-term capital made available – subject to the decision of the relevant banks and insurance institutions – are two essential aids that help to solve two problems in the BAWAG: on the one hand, a liquidity problem and on the other hand an equity problem. These are two reliefs, which clearly show the commitment of the Federal Government, the High House of the BAWAG and also a confession by the Federal Government and the High House to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. I would also like to stress here that from the beginning, when the ÖGB Summit informed the Chancellor and myself, for the first time, that the situation itself is no longer under control, that the BAWAG is in great trouble, that the ÖGB is no longer able to provide its property and give the appropriate guarantees, that the Federal Chancellor has very quickly set a few goals indisputably: The aim was to save the BAWAG. - Point one. Point two: The aim was to save the Austrian Trade Union Confederation – that only to your conclusion that one might have thought to let the trade union association go bankrupt. Very quickly – when it was clear that the ÖGB can no longer deal with this situation by itself – the German Chancellor has made the aim of saving the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because we have the greatest interest in a functioning social partnership and a strong employee representation in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The objective has been set that we must not take an incalculable risk for the taxpayer and that, if possible, the taxpayer should not pay the bill for this criminal case, BAWAG-ÖGB, for this scandal. That is why it is also a liability and not an immediate, direct aid because we hope that the taxpayer will not be used here and that an operationally healthy credit institution will be able to make the situation positive and secure the future by means of a good and smart conduct in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! On all these points it is seen that the Federal Government has probably considered and acted very objectively that we have acted decisively and decisively. I have to reject your accusation, Professor Van der Bellen, that the German Chancellor had poured oil into the fire! Excuse me, I was there at all these meetings, and I can tell you one thing: [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That was in no session, he said that publicly!]] The Federal Chancellor has deleted a fire stove that could easily have crossed, and has thus helped in a highly responsible way that BAWAG has a future and the ÖGB does not have to go bankrupt due to this damage. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to inform you that, of course, we have also discussed the European side of these rescue measures in detail. I would like to inform you that last Thursday I met Commissioner Nelly Kroes with a detailed telephone call, in which I informed her fully. On Friday thereafter, we submitted an extensive compendium of the measures to be taken, and I am confident that this process will also be accepted on the European side, because it is simply a solution with a house mind, a solution in which the bank itself has to contribute to restructuring, a solution where the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, as owner of it, naturally stands before the taxpayer's use of liability for this scandal, with its ownership and responsibility, and a solution that the BAWAG is sold in private hands, receives a new strong owner who will also successfully lead the bank. In conclusion: I assume that today's decision helps to ensure the good reputation of Austria's financial centre, to secure the future of BAWAG and thus also to give the savers security.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2576	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2597	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I believe that this package for the future assurance of BAWAG is an important signal in three directions. First of all, it is a signal for the stability of the Austrian financial centre. We have an excellent reputation internationally and could not allow this reputation to be damaged by BAWAG or ÖGB. Secondly, it is an important commitment to a functioning social partnership, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not abandon the 100% ownership of BAWAG, the ÖGB. Thirdly, however, it is also an important signal of responsibility to the taxpayer, because we have said very clearly here, first of all the ÖGB and all its branch associations must disclose their assets under the control of the National Bank, and here the ownership liability is to be exercised before only one euro of the taxpayer has to be paid in the form of a liability, ladies and gentlemen. So an important signal in three directions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] But let me say, ladies and gentlemen, even though we decide together today on this package for the restoration of the BAWAG, but let me say a few things that have made me honest in the last few days, even those that have shocked me. I know we're in an election year, but what's come to the public in the last few days about twisting truths, twisting facts, and trying to change political little money in this difficult situation, I find immense. If Mr. Van der Bellen is still developing today – unfortunately he is not here anymore – a philosophy that is obvious: It's not the thief's fault, it's the policeman's fault, he should've prevented theft! I would like to say that quite honestly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Mrs. Sburny, come in. You are out and interpret this speech by Mr Van der Bellen, who did not mention with a word the SPÖ, who meant that the police were guilty, that he should have prevented theft. [[Abg. Sburny: I don't interpret anything!]] Come out and explain this, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Did you listen?]] And let me mention here three examples of my concern regarding the distortion of facts very clearly. [[Abg. Sburny: That's what you're doing: twist!]] First example: To say that the government would have poured oil into the fire, had the savers insecure, is a monster! And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: If I had been a small saver of BAWAG, I would have gone to the bank immediately – I admit – and would have removed all the money from my savings book if I had heard that Mr Gusenbauer said that BAWAG is a criminal case. I don't want my money in a criminal case, ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I would immediately have dissolved my BAWAG fairbook, I would have heard the expression “sausums” used by Mayor Häupl in this matter, because I do not want to put my money in a “sausage,” Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Bures: “Highwater! ”]] And I would have – third – run to BAWAG immediately after President Hundstorfer said: The bank's situation is dramatic! Let's stick to the truth, ladies and gentlemen: If anyone here has been unsure, then it was the people with those statements that I have quoted here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] My second example – we heard from Van der Bellen again today – is: Government crisis management failed. – Ladies and gentlemen! So, really, only one theorist can talk. In contrast, I can quote a practitioner, the highly respected economic publisher Georg Wailand. A few days ago, he wrote in the country’s largest newspaper: “The government’s crisis management has worked even more professionally than with those affected. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But he's not a practitioner either...!]] Therefore, Gusenbauer’s words of the “gift of neoliberalism” in this context appear to be spookyly realistically remote from reality. From the “consum” plea to the Landesbank rehabilitation, from the case of the Bank Burgenland to the Caribbean and other speculation transactions of BAWAG, that was” – Mr Gusenbauer! – “not the “gir of neoliberalism”, but simply the greed of some comrades to do at the expense of other wild speculations. One wanted to be smarter than the capitalists and fell to the nose in fear.” – Quotes. That is the truth, Mr Colleague: “responsibly far from reality” were your statements. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] My third example – and even today it was mentioned briefly again; it was the theme of the last two days –: The government humbles the ÖGB, the government tries to drive the ÖGB into insolvency. A few days ago, Dr. Payerertner wrote a comment in the “Kurier” in which it reads: If the ÖGB was humiliated by anyone, then only by himself. – Only through these things that have happened here has the ÖGB come into this situation, ladies and gentlemen! And if it was said here that we wanted to drive the ÖGB into bankruptcy, I quote here Stefan Janny from today’s issue of the “profile” that writes: “School and his government are now blaming the ÖGB because, as a condition of the state guarantee for the BAWAG, it is so ridiculous that it can only be regarded as a desperate attempt by ÖGB and SPÖ to launch any counter-attack.” – citations. Quote from today’s “profile”, please: Ridiculous, a desperate attempt by the ÖGB and the SPÖ to launch a counter-attack. – I don't think you need to comment on that at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... an amendment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say very clearly: If we make a change to the law today, it would not be necessary. We do it anyway, because we want to end this fear propaganda, that we want to destroy the ÖGB by this law, at last. But I also tell you the following – and I also say this in the direction of all leading ÖGB officials –: If the Trade Union Confederation believes that it must also play business, if it believes it must own a large group, from shoe trading to television participation, from the piano factory to hotel businesses, then it must also carry entrepreneurial risk, then it will be fully used for liability, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] There you can't say: I'm the union union, I can't go into bankruptcy! And guard God – guard God! – that things still appear, similar to the guarantee for a casino in Jericho, where the ÖGB is directly liable and where it may be driven into bankruptcy! God forbid this not to occur, ladies and gentlemen. But again: I can't play business and then, when it gets critical, say: I'm a union, please help me, I can't go bankrupt! - I can't do that! Therefore: Make clear conditions, ladies and gentlemen. I guess – I don't really need to guess – I recommend to all the officials of the ÖGB: Please drag a clear line! Do you want to be employee representatives – or do you want to play business? The latter has still gone wrong, from the “consumer” to the nationalists until now to the BAWAG and the bank Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since, as I have just mentioned, we absolutely want to avoid creating an atrocity propaganda here, a fear propaganda, the government wants to triumphantly force the ÖGB into its knees, only for this reason and not for objective reasons, we have decided to make an amendment which I now want to bring to the reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear commitment to a functioning social partnership, a clear commitment, Mr Van der Bellen, to an efficient, slender, democratically structured, party-independent union. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Now!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2809	Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stumpfully read amendment tabled by Dr. Stupid, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues and colleagues on the report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law establishing a federal law on the acceptance of liability for the future assurance of BAWAG P.S.K. Bank for Labour and Economy and Austrian Postsparkass AG created, the Federal Finance Act 2006 and the National Bank Act 1984 amended as well as a federal law on the acquisition of shares of the Austrian National Bank (1447 d.B.), is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2877	The next speaker is Mr Katzian. He also speaks to us for 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e2898	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! There have already been some discussions on the situation around the BAWAG and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. Mr Stumvoll has quoted statements that have been made in recent weeks, meaning that in connection with the BAWAG, there would have been talk of a “criminal case” and a “saude”. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Häupl!]] I can only say: I understood this in such a way that these statements relate to those who act, and those who act have political responsibility, have taken on appropriate responsibility within the bank, and there have been consequences. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] And if it has been said that the consequences that have been drawn must also result in everything coming to the table in the future, then nothing must be added to it. This will happen, and for that I stand and for that is also the trade union movement in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's what we're going to look at!]] You can look at this, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The last weeks have been particularly difficult for the employees of BAWAG. There are 6 000 colleagues working every day to calm customers on the one hand and to do their job as employees of the bank on the other. Many of them, even all, have responded in a similar way to most of us, in view of these inconceivable processes. I believe that today we should also respect the staff of the Bank and express our thanks for this commitment. I would like to stress and underline this, ladies and gentlemen. [[It is a pleasure to see the SPÖ as well as the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Maybe pay a premium!]] The crisis of BAWAG was caused by the action of the former board of directors and also by persons in the ÖGB. Yes – we already said that –: There will also have to be the corresponding full information with the resulting consequences. But the BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen, is a successful Austrian bank, it is a bank of savers. It is a bank of many companies, also and especially in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is also the Bank of the Republic, because it is very much about the payments of the Republic of Austria via the BAWAG P.S.K. is running. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the state liability to be decided on today is important for Austria's financial centre, important for Austria's economic location. I would also like to say that I expressly welcome the broadest possible support from the House. I think that this is a very important step, even if I personally wanted to have a slightly more discreet procedure, similar to 1981 at the Landesbank, 1985 at the credit institution and 1995 at the BHI. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's what I think!]] These crises were dealt with quickly and without major discussion. This time, ladies and gentlemen, it was the last time we acted, perhaps because the owner of the ÖGB is. It can be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: No, because you didn't put the cards on the table!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Human failure and control deficits have also led to a serious crisis of the ÖGB. [[Abg. Wattaul: Haberer-Partie!]] Some believe that the disclosure of the Stairs Fund has led to the full disclosure of the Austrian trade union movement and thus the political strength of the trade union organisation no longer exists. But – I tell you quite openly –: What does the strength of trade unions depend on? – Yes, finance and financial power are important for a trade union movement, but strength and enforceability come from the members, from the thousands of works councils, staff representatives and staff representatives. They are the struggle of the trade union movement, they are the power – and not necessarily the financial resources. The financial resources are needed, but to achieve targets, it needs to be widened in the organization. These are the organized works councils and the thousands of union members. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Nor do I allow, ladies and gentlemen, that the trade union movement is being talked sick in a sense, as if the trade union work we do every day were not working. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has been broken by the officials!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am very pleased when people who are not members of the trade union are moving up and bragging about the future of the trade union movement. I'm very happy about that. I also very much hope that You articulate what you articulate here with intermediate calls, then also in your personal responsibility when it comes to taking appropriate steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Trade union work has a lot to do with the search for pragmatic solutions. Every day there are thousands of works councils who, supported by committed trade union secretaries, find good solutions for workers in their businesses. Every day, collective treaty negotiations are taking place at social level in this country, which show that social partnership works in this area and that the trade union movement is able to carry out its tasks and responsibilities. [[Abg. Wattaul: Obviously not!]] Last weekend, last night from Friday to Saturday, a very successful collective contract in the electrical and electronics industry with a 2.8 percent increase was decided, and in addition to doing the housework with regard to income, with the entry into a comprehensive education exemption in this area we are also able to achieve innovation and future capacity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, union work, our daily business, works. And anyone who claims that this does not work lies or says something that does not correspond to the facts. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who is lying here? Mr President.]] But – and I say that very openly – trade unions do not only live by Pragmatism, behind the trade union movement is an idea – the idea of solidarity, the idea of democratising all areas of life, especially the working world, and the idea of justice. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You have betrayed this idea!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You yourselves have no democracy!]] I would like to say very strongly to you, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, there have been errors of people, I don't need to speak this up. That's it. That is true, that corresponds to the facts. But I would like to say to all those who now believe that it is possible to take this opportunity to eliminate or destroy the trade union movement with a round-up. [[Abg. Großruck: You have brought yourself into this situation!]] An idea you can't bury, an idea you can't kill! This is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you're doing. You're doing this! You're burying the idea!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Austria is a success story, and the social partners and the role of trade unions are part of this success story. The trade union movement stands for democracy, social justice, equal opportunities, international understanding and human dignity. It cannot be a pity, ladies and gentlemen, to remember the following: It was the organizations of the workers' movement that warned of the disasters of the last century. It was the trade unions that, after the disasters, made significant progress in economic development. [[Abg. Großruck: In what time do you live?]] Without us, ladies and gentlemen, without the trade unions and their struggles for fair income, for regulated working hours, for freedom of the press and for social security, without us this republic looked different. And that must also be said with all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The capital of a trade union is the creativity, the dynamics, the commitment and the force of our works councils and the employees within the trade union movement. [[Abg. Big ruck: Is in the Caribbean!]] My colleagues within the union also have hard and hard weeks behind them and still before them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nothing learned!]] I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to express my heartfelt thanks to those who stand at the front every day and do the appropriate work every day. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They're poor!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot change the past, we cannot undo what has happened, but we can, we want and we will shape the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3239	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3271	Mr President. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Katzian, the idea is good, but the idea has not broken this federal government, you have broken the idea of the ÖGB for years and decades. We'll save them, you missed your job! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And in reality... – The calls are self-evident. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Especially colleague Heinzl, who has been doing nothing but rescue the station in St. Pölten for years, and the arrogance and arrogance with which you are now...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3307	Please do not say, Mr Commissioner, that 'arrogance'!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3328	Excuse me, he represented that. It is probably the wrong way to do this apprehension and what one cannot say here in the House, with which the SPÖ's top officials are making themselves up here and pretending as if they had nothing to do with the matter, as if the Federal Government had speculated billions, as if we were responsible for a financial debacle and fiasco! I think that's the wrong way. Dr. Gusenbauer said it right. Original quote Gusenbauer: “BAWAG has met us like a comet.” – Quote. That's right! You can only agree with that. Mr Gusenbauer, she has not only met you like a comet, no, she has actually hit the savers like a comet, she has met the employees of BAWAG, she has met the ÖGB members and she has above all hit the country like a comet. Now everyone knows where the comet came from. We all know that! The comet lights red when it comes down from heaven. We know where he's from. Col. Cap knows, too, so he laughs like that. He knows exactly where this comet came from. This is really something that should not have been there for years and decades, a red mismanagement that has driven its flowers. That's why it's quite clear: This Federal Government acknowledges this rescue package. This federal government – the whole, not only of the Federal Chancellor and Finance Minister – is committed to saving the BAWAG. That's what it's all about, it's important! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But we do not confess to the saving of the system, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We can only say no to this red economy. We can only say no to the fact that highly paid destroyers remain in office and dignity. We can only say no to the fact that we are rehabilitating a bank at the expense of the system. It can't be! There will have to be action, and the system will have to change. The need exists, which has already been confirmed by various sides. I am thinking only of yesterday’s interesting discussion in “open-minded” – that has already been quoted today – as Professor Reader – really not someone who is suspected of being close to us, but actually an ideologically left-wing outside, one of your shining, shimmering figures past shine – said quite clearly that the SPÖ is not able to operate. And that's not an individual case. In the SPÖ this mismanagement system has. Actually, this is a system. That is why we will have to accept this issue. We will not, as Mr Scheibner rightly said, make the BAWAG the election topic, not the BAWAG, which one has to deal with, but one will have to deal with the system, with the ÖGB one will have to deal with, with the SPÖ, with the links that were more or less obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you are sitting here in the House much longer than I am. Many of you know the times of a SPÖ government, many of you have also participated in the destruction of money. €2,000 billion has been destroyed under SPÖ's responsibility! This is not so funny at all – because there are some laughing. I have to say honestly, I don't understand the laughter. Actually, it's depressing to destroy so much money. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And jobs!]] – And many jobs! That's hundreds of thousands of jobs. Or: the policy of national lighting. They sent over 60,000 people to the desert, over 60,000 people lost their jobs under your leadership. Or: the “consumer” plea. This has already been quoted today; an important area. Again thousands of jobs were lost, billions of money were destroyed. Or – from recent history – the Bank Burgenland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] – Mrs Muttonen, these are things to deal with. This red thread of destruction goes through decades at the SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Carinthian Hypo!]] I'm just thinking about the ARBÖ crisis. Again, 600 employees are in danger, and the proportion is maintained. Col. Schober, SPÖ's countryman in Carinthia, gets thick jobs, many others also, but it's not meant to clean up. Or, finally, something that has not yet been mentioned: the mismanagement in its own ranks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – It’s no wonder you’re getting nervous up there in the previous row. I'd get nervous too, so I'd have a problem. The development of SPÖ debt policy is so to speak in its own four walls: in 1993 100 million Schilling debt, in 1996 already 200 million Schilling debt, and in 2000, when you lost the choice and since then have to sit on the opposition bank, over 300 million Schilling debts. Over 300 million Schilling debt in their own four walls! I think that's really what interests people outside. The crisis we are currently discussing is the one thing, but what is most disturbing to me is the self-understanding of the SPÖ, how it deals with this crisis, namely this arrogance – I really have to say it again; I hope I will not get another call of order – and – if I should say so, I would call it arrogance – the arrogance with which one operates here and how to deal with foreign money. That means, it doesn't matter what case you're taking, it doesn't matter whether you're taking hold of the ÖGB register, whether you're taking hold of the State Lights Box or whether you're taking part in the party register. It doesn't matter. That's what people outside are reacting so much. That's what we get in conversation with the people. That the BAWAG is in a crisis and that some have fully known about it and others have little that may be. But dealing with the system is what people do not understand, namely, this unfrozenness, as one turns out here as colleague Katzian and pretends to be nothing. We have survived the crisis – thanks to the Federal Government for the rescue! But the government is still being criticized for this. It's a sourry that one dares to attack the ÖGB, it's a sourry, that one dares to act so hard about the ÖGB, although the money was speculated before. Ladies and gentlemen, this behaviour has nothing to do with it again! You can make yourself here today and criticize the Federal Government, you can accuse us of “social cold”, but the facts you cannot turn around. You can and will not make the opposite come true. They put hundreds of millions in the sand as we create jobs while we secure pensions for generations, while we make the biggest tax relief of the Second Republic, while in all areas we ensure that this country is at the forefront of Europe. These are the facts, and you will not be able to conclude them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lacner.]] Yes, Mr Lacner, not even you! You can sit back there for so long and make fun of it. Actually, it's not good to make up for what you've done here. Let's talk about the exponents! Let us speak to Mr Elsner. Let's talk about Mr Flöttl. Let us speak of Mr Vergestnich, Mr Muhm, Mr Tumpel and their names. Let us speak of those people who are paying millions of euros! I brought a little comparison here so that you can imagine it so that people at home can imagine it in front of the televisions. [[The speaker holds a panel in the height on which two red and a green beam can be seen.]] This was Fritz Verzetznich's annual program. [[pointing to the first red bar]] Well, but relatively much, 214 000 €. Here is the annual guest of colleague Elsner in his best time: [[pointing to the second red bar]] 650,000 € annually for destroying millions and billions, for giving Flettl money so that he can live a beautiful life in America. And here – do you see the little bar?; you almost don't see him, I had to enlarge him –: [[on the green bar]] This is the average employee in Austria. This is the employee with 16 000 € who really does not understand this, who does not understand that you give colleague Elsner 3 million € to finish and provide him with a 300 000 € job that he has reduced billions in the Caribbean. [[Abg. Riepl: Tell me what the Lord... has got!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about it! I've got another picture here. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a Mercedes is pictured, including the text: The new car of former BAWAG chief Elsner for EUR 183,618.]] I don't want to make any car advertising now, but – quite interestingly – that's a new Mercedes, the most expensive class there is. Do you know what he's costing? – It costs about €185,000. [[Abg. Sburny: You know that!]] This is exactly the Mercedes that Mr. Elsner ordered three days ago at Wiesenthal & Co AG. That shows this self-understanding, this abjectness. with which the SPÖ works and acts! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You won't be smarter out of your problems, you won't become more reasonable. You can still put billions in the sand as often as you can, you will probably continue to make yourself up with your arrogance here and pretend as if nothing had been. We will ensure that you do not get into responsibility for as long as possible and that at least you do not have access to the state register.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3496	Mr Scheuch, for the accusation of 'arrogance', I give you a call for order. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. He too has a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3523	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us come back to the essentials and cores of this law. Let us come to the different and colorful chronologies, which have already been presented here according to the viewpoint and couleur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] A few additions are missing, however, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner. Just so there's no misunderstanding. Yes to the so-called restless Enlightenment, yes to the rescue of the BAWAG, yes to save the reputation of the financial centre, yes to a corresponding involvement of the owner ÖGB, but no to the liquidation of the ÖGB that would arise, we would not have set up appropriate actions here in the last days. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. That's a fool!]] We are already at the heart of what has happened in the last few days. Until Thursday, the impression was clear and clear that a federal government here, using the emergency of a part of the opposition and the trade unions themselves, announced a unilateral dictatorship. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It must be added, however, that the ÖGB and large parts of SPÖ themselves were no longer able or able to resist it at all. That's right! – As far as chronology is concerned. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But the whole thing can be proved well with how it really happened. Whether it was really necessary, Mr. Federal Chancellor, to wait until this day – I am not talking about a bag or something in this direction yet; waiting – with the actions of the Republic, that will still show the future, there we will be researching. According to our information, this could have been prevented if we, or you, the Federal Government, had been a few days earlier, also concerning the transactions in the USA. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's incredible!]] This is not incredible, this is the description from our point of view, Federal Minister for Finance. We'll come to you anyway. You're gonna have to stop that. Let's stay with the thing! Politics now obviously also needs – we know it ourselves – staging. Maybe you shouldn't be upset about this, but you'll have to let yourself be liked if you're confronted with it: What kind of picture did you give at this stage? How did you stage? Which picture did you draw? The fact that you may have ignited a few days and then unplugged the extinguisher is one thing. But the savings book opening... [[Abg. That's great! That's a shame!]] - Calm down! I'm coming to see you right now. – But the saving book opening in this way can now be commented on as you want, it is also seen differently. But you can see the pictures, if you take the paper, in such a way that it was not a friendly act, but simply and grippingly a march into the BAWAG. That's how you got dressed, and that's the opposite of what you're trying to do here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To this end, there is one thing that no one from the government parties has said about it – Professor Van der Bellen raised the question, you keep silent –: What about the shares in the bank? Why invade, why not do a friendly act the way you do it? – Because, using this emergency situation, BAWAG and ÖGB are to be thrown out there, while the black banks remain inside, while other stakeholders are obviously expected to continue to participate in the note bank. That's your interest! It's not at all. Your interest – we will make you an offer immediately – to think about whether the construction of the central bank is still up-to-date. In our opinion, it is anachronistic that banks are sitting in there to be controlled, and it is also anachronistic that social partners are still sitting in the central bank. As in most other European countries, maintaining the independence of the institution could well be such that the federal government alone holds the shares. Now there is a chance. That is why I should like to make a motion for a resolution on the subject. [[Quoted print version removed]] So if you want to get rid of this accusation that you are going unilaterally here, you agree! The Minister of Finance shall act accordingly. In any event, we will not agree with this passage of law that only the ÖGB and the BAWAG should be more or less unkind and in addition to the price complimented. Even if you've been excited about it for days now, we also see this as an act of emergency defense on our part, because you can't easily see how a situation that must have been originally responsible for the ÖGB and the BAWAG managers is exploited in this way. This has long been the issue, that is the point! And you can celebrate something where you're not as noble as you like to sell yourself here. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Actually, you're already sorry, but you have to go back to it: As a Member of Parliament, it should simply not be allowed to be liked that the Federal Minister for Finance has been shown to say the untruth here again and again, and more often, from which motives always exist. In the meantime, we have selected the appropriate passages. Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, at the last meeting you referred to here, you said literally, in spite of your present presentation – quote – “that there is no word about a further commitment of €500 million from 1998 and that no word about a further commitment of € 350 million in 2000 is included”, no word about it is contained in the note-bank report you received and no one else. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:... Incredible!]] I should also like to quote from the 2001 report on the surveys carried out at the Bank for Labour and Economic Affairs – you may not know that we have them – page 24: ‘At the beginning of the 2000 financial year, BAWAG took part in a company ‘based on Bermuda (...)’, with a volume of EUR 350 million’. This may not be so exciting, because we are all used to it, but it must not go through here that the Minister of Finance continues to divulge Parliament, but it is obvious that this is already his trademark. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I hope that political maturity will once again be so far as it has the consequences. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Whether he does this deliberately or inadvertently, let us now put it down, otherwise the President will have to step back. It is also annoyed that you have to use it all the time, but it is simply the comparison of the two relevant passages, and that is now the so-called truth, provided that it is now to be proved by point and insert. What you're always talking about is unclear, at least something different from the truth. Next point: We have a responsibility. There might be a motive why you're acting like this. The question must already be asked: What have we actually referred to bank auditors – to them you have referred to yourself – supervisory councils, internal revisions? The internal revisions are located in the banks themselves, but of course every developed economic democracy also has supervision over the banks as such, namely as public responsibility. There are, of course, massive occurrences and omissions on your part. It should once become known – not even you know – that most of the state commissioners sitting in the banks are sent out of his cabinet by the Minister of Finance. Even his secretary – nothing against secretaries – has become a state commissioner. You can't be surprised when it goes like that. So you have to get some help here, too. You can also accept a motion for a resolution, which I will only explain here in the broad outlines. It is about the appointment of supervisory councils and bank auditors, and it is also about the said state commissioners and the improvement of financial market supervision. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] This is not a cabaret, Mr. Federal Chancellor! As you always do with critical contributions, you can agree from the back. You know, the only thing right about your comparison is the theatralic that you've been responsible for lately. The pictures you submitted show in the direction that you have sent yourself to continue preparing the total takeover of the Republic. She'll be done soon anyway. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is the media de facto in black hand, it is now the last economic departments in black hand. In this direction, you want to continue working and at the same time be the great patron over everything that has saved everything. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are you the voice tube of Gusenbauer – or what? Are you at the SPÖ now?]] Mr. Landeshuptmann from Carinthia would have his joy. They are in the process of realizing the “Third Republic. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3708	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Werner Kogler, friends and friends regarding the acquisition of the OeNB shares by the federal government is sufficiently supported, has been properly introduced and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3775	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on fundamental improvements in banking supervision in Austria is sufficiently supported, has been explained in the main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. I leave him according to § 53 para. 4 to distribute. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3852	Mrs Haubner spoke next. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3873	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! They allow me, after Mr Kogler's speech, to return to the real subject of today's special meeting of the National Council. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank Mr Katzian, who said: Austria is a success story! – I can only agree to this: Austria is truly a success story through this Federal Government, a success story in the field of social security, in the area of family policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And so that Austria's economic location is still part of this success story, today we will decide, as I believe, a package for the rescue of BAWAG in a joint shoulder closure. The prerequisite that we can decide today was the consistent, rapid and timely action of the Federal Government so that we can restore the operational capacity of BAWAG with 1.3 million customers and around 6 200 employees, so that we can send an important international signal of stability, quality and legal certainty to the financial and banking centre of Austria and also send a clear signal against the uncertainty of the customers and savers of BAWAG. We are reacting correctly with this inadequacy, which is being decided today, because it is about securing the trust and also the deposit of savers and customers. We are responding correctly because the downfall of the fourth largest banking house in Austria would have led to severe turbulence for the entire economic and financial location in Austria. – To avoid this was a command of the hour. Ladies and gentlemen! The federal government is liable for the BAWAG with up to €900 million. Every Austrian, each Austrian, is therefore liable with 110 € personally. For example, € 110 are a short sixth of the monthly income of a compensation allowance recipient or a compensation allowance recipient. It is therefore only right and cheap that we should ensure that not primarily the taxpayer is taken into account, it must be made clear that the debtors of this disaster are also and above all the debtors of this disaster for criminal responsibility and that the bank and the owner ÖGB must also begin to save themselves. With today's day, the Federal Government and Parliament assume responsibility for the future of BAWAG and thus for Austria's economic location. This must not mean, however, that the actual persons responsible can steal themselves from responsibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order for this rescue action to be a sustainable success, the ÖGB is particularly well advised to put on the table all open questions and facts, to begin with structural reforms and, above all, to abolish existing privileges such as top incomes and special pension rights: not to preach water and drink wine, but to do what this government has done with Parliament's support in reducing special schemes since 2000! Take an example of the fact that there are no more special pensions for politicians and social security officials, that we have provided active political pensions with a solid contribution of 8 to 15 percent, that we have introduced a guarantee contribution for social security pensions and that, since 2005, the same rules in the pension system apply to all employees: equal contribution rate for equal benefits! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the fact remains, however, that the ÖGB is the only representative of interest that still has an additional, own pension system for officials. The fact is that the ÖGB still has a pension privilege in the case of top-ranking pensioners – and it is usually additional pensions – in that the pension reaches the level of 40 percent of the final pension after 15 years and the level of 80 percent of the final pension after 35 years. This must be completely incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, for an ASVG-pensionist or for an ASVG-pensionist who has to work for 45 years to receive 80 percent of the final pension. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not from last reference!]] Now, if the ex-ÖGB finance manager Weninger defends this pension paradise and says that these are well-acquired rights, then this is more than cynical in view of the current situation. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore not enough to give back penthouses only, but to do the homework as a credible representation of interests, and to abandon privileges. Ladies and gentlemen! The uncertainty among many consumers due to the BAWAG operations has been very great in recent weeks. We have not poured oil into the fire on the part of the government, on the part of the Ministry of Consumer Protection, and we have not staged anything, but have assumed our responsibility and the law-enforced advisory and information mandate. We have set up a free hotline, and the calls of recent times have proved how important it was to inform and inform in a serious and comprehensive manner at this time. We had 3,500 individual consultations, up to 100 calls for deposit insurance, life insurance and securities deposits every hour, and it was a great relief for the savers by providing comprehensive information and information on the part of the good employees of my home, especially as a result of the fact that their savings deposits are definitely safe up to €20 000. It has proved to be correct that we have been informed in good time in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, Parliament will unanimously decide on the rescue of BAWAG, especially in the sense of responsibility to small savers and customers, for the jobs of BAWAG, but above all for necessary reforms in the interest of an independent union, to which we too confess. Ladies and gentlemen! This state liability, which hopefully never comes to light, is not just about limiting damage, it is also in parallel that the clarification of dubious transactions and financial flows has consequences, it is about the real elimination of privileges, about cleaning up with just those, and it requires openness, control and transparency, openness and credible action both inside and outside. If this should happen – in addition to what the Republic is doing here – then, I believe, there is also a realistic opportunity for a restart from the crisis and for a re-start of a credible representation of interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3939	As the first speaker of the last round, I give the floor to Mr Neugebauer. The final round is distributed over 10 minutes each. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e3960	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Dear colleagues! Some speeches – I agree with this assessment – do not meet the occasion. I sometimes have the impression that some speakers, especially the Greens, who are serving an accord with the Socialist Group here, have read too much Kafka because the assignment of victims and perpetrators is obviously to be wrong. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on this: The victims of this painting are 6 000 employees at BAWAG and 2 000 employees at the Trade Union Confederation. Victims are 1.3 million members who want a strong union union in the social partners. Victims are the trade unions – and in this question I give Wolfgang Katzian right – who negotiate hundreds of collective agreements each year that prepare laws in the public service. Victims are the social partners in foreign perception – an export article of the Second Republic, which has made the social dialogue in Austria famous. Victim is Austria's bank square. And foreign perception does not differ: The danger of crossing Bazillen to other areas was clearly presented abroad, and it is not a honour to be able to stand on the front page of the Financial Times with this theme. Victims are Austria's reputation. I spent the last weekend in a social policy debate at European level, and I asked myself the questions BAWAG/ÖGB. But at present there is hardly anyone talking about the excellent performance of the Austrian Presidency. This is unfortunate, and this must be overcome quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for taking into account the urgent request made by BAWAG and the ÖGB to the Federal Government. And I wonder about colleagues Kogler, whom I have so far meant that he is quite aware of the budgetary contexts. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was... optimism!]] I would have liked, Mr Kogler, to know what you would have said if the Federal Government had made the acceptance of liability before agreeing with the American lawyers. You'd probably have a great scream. To be used now populistly You go out like the sentence that no one understands anymore in which you have phased from the “Third Republic. ” [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Federal Government and, therefore, the taxpayer for the extent of liability and also for the time factor in order to ensure that what Mr Novotny – whom we support – also needs: The BAWAG can restart! Since not all in Austria agree that tax money for this liability – hopefully not necessary! – is used, I say: The responsibility, the primary liability lies with the owner! Since it was successful already at lunch – colleague Matznetter: already for lunch! – Last Thursday, in talks with the Minister of Finance, I was only surprised that this question was then discussed at 10 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen! The perpetrators – a few of them – live at the door, closer to the clouds than the needs of the people on the ground. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] And today's statement by a prominent colleague from the trade union movement, Mr Rudolf Nürnberger, to the address of the former President: “I’ve always misguided him,” will still be up-to-date. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Professor Van der Bellen's statement is concerned, which has almost doubted the right of representations of interests in a political party, I would like to point out that in an organisation whose over-participation is different from “unpolitical”. [[Interlocutory calls by Dr Van der Bellen and Oellinger]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No! Top officials!]] [[Abg. Oils: You need to be careful!]] I am glad that I can work in a People's Party, which not only allows, but also promotes that all representatives are not represented by strawmen and straw women, but that representatives of the economy, farmers, industry, women, men, young and old, who are able to gather workers in a national party and bring themselves to the stage. That is the success of a People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's quite another thing! – President... Industrial union,...!]] I am faced with the demand – I say so casually, and my colleagues from the Socialist Group do not take it personally – and the demand for direction unions is being addressed to me. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wattaul]] Why do we push the red one down the money? And I say with the same determination: Dear friends, as a Christian trade unionist, I am a united union, not only from history, because the future is also of origin! And one remembers a little what it was after the confusion of the First Republic, after the dictatorship of fascism, that personalities such as Bohemia, Vineyard and Koplenig assembled and said: That's what we're over! – This is probably not so obvious for today’s generations, but I invite the Social Democrats in the Party and the Trade Union to rethink the sense of the former Siamese twins SPÖ and ÖGB, who have been conjured by Victor Adler. Ladies and gentlemen, in a trade union movement, we will be able to learn the homes of our fellow Members if we do not talk about over-participation, but at the end of the day they also live. And we will also redesign this union union with our help. It is not the place here to discuss everything in detail, but I can already offer that Christian-social values such as personality, subsidiarity and solidarity as a rejection of centralism, the uncontrollable centralism are parameters in order to achieve more closeness to the members and also more acceptance. And in the end, it is also a question of putting such a large organization on a broad political basis. I have confidence in colleagues, and I support him, not only because he has sent a signal to the former President – which has not been a wake-off in all friendship – but also with regard to the previous actions of those responsible in the ÖGB Summit and in the BAWAG. I give all the right to say: The Trade Union Confederation has capital in its members, in its officials. I also support this with something that Anton Benya, a major of the Austrian trade union movement, is credited with, at the end of his many years of career: The climate of discussion among those responsible has contributed to this, even though they have in a world-wide way different views that this country and its population have been able to achieve a relative prosperity. – This includes openness, trust and tolerance to other opinions. I think this is the capital on which we can re-found a trade union movement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4110	Next came Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap in the word. Also 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4131	Madam President. High house! There was no one – even here, I suppose, not – who was not depressed, sad, and found it unforgivable, what this, as many have meant, is responsible for criminal management in the BAWAG. I join all those who believe that, in this context, respect for the employees in the BAWAG is to be shown, who had to bathe out all of this on a daily basis, and think that you should of course learn from these events. But if I listen today and deeply regret that this bank has become a game ball of the speculators – but it will now have a secure future – then I also regret that this bank has become a game ball of internal policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... political responsibility is to be worked out!]] You know, I have listened very closely to the remarks today, and as one who has been active in politics for a long time, I know how she made statements about Klubobmann Molterer when he meant that he wanted the ÖGB to re-establish the excess-participality, or even statements by the Federal Chancellor or the Clubobmanns Scheibner, who meant that they wanted a strong ÖGB. [[Abg. Wattaul: Yes, certainly!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, what you want is an ÖGB who gives his consent as far as possible to your policy that you make in the government. That's the truth! [[Abg. Scheibner: They didn't like that in the pension reform!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... criminal machinations!]] Do not tell us any other fairy tale that you want to have a strong ÖGB with as many demonstrations as possible – for of course you have not forgotten to the ÖGB that he has demonstrated and demonstrated this on the occasion of the “pension reduction reform” with 200,000 people! [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, because you forced them!]] Well, don't tell us these stories! – And with “overpartial” Klubobmann Molterer of course means the same thing, only it is otherwise formulated. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a problem with the overparty at SPÖ, I believe!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, there are five points that were quite treacherous: One point was when you tried at the beginning to get the ÖGB and the BAWAG out of the National Bank – at the nominal value! That is to say, it was not a question of making the most of it, but of simply not representing the trade union bank and the trade union in the national bank. This is a rebalancing of the social partners, which is a push, and that is also one of the reasons why we put forward an amendment to the draft law in the report and request of the Financial Committee 1447 of the Supplements. I put this request herewith: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that you just want to get the BAWAG and the ÖGB out of the National Bank. This has nothing to do with the rescue of BAWAG! They just want a shift in power. You've been acting here as an ÖVP partyman! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schöls: In what position did colleague... on 1. Mai's riding?]] I come to a second point, because all of you have also expressed your thanks to the employees of BAWAG: The same employee of BAWAG had to bathe it out on the switches when the German Chancellor in truth poured oil into the fire, because alone at the sentence: [[Call the ÖVP: Is not true at all!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] The BAWAG stands the water up to the neck! – What does a saver have to think?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Molterer:... he didn't say!]] – Of course he goes to the bank and says: I would like to disband my savings book, because even the Federal Chancellor no longer believes in the future of this bank! – And that was what all these employees had to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] So, of course, he was also scared by the savers – and this continued day by day, which is escalated and escalated. [[Abg. Murauer: What did the chief say?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: “Saussaufen” the chief said! “Brown”!]] And then when it really reached the peak, you were suddenly ready to negotiate the liability. Do you know what else I think is insidious? It's true that the liability amount of €900 million can be calculated on the population, but you act as if every Austrian or every Austrian has to pay something! – This is a liability for the case – and we all hope that it will never be beating! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is your understanding of tax money! The tax money comes from the Austrians! ... self-service shop!]] However, they stand here, fear-making and again fear-making and make this case a gameball of internal policy and in reality a gameball in relation to the election campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: For you, tax money is a self-service store!]] Then, of course, we also come to another point – this question has already been asked in the discussion today –: Why was the original draft for today's draft law so that it was interpretable that the ÖGB must first go into bankruptcy before the liability is struck? – By the way, this is all under the title: The ÖVP wishes itself a strong ÖGB. – Well, how strong an ÖGB must be when you say: Open everything up! Tell the strike funds!? – This is very important for the debate when it comes to developing a strong anti-unsocial power against the government’s further non-social measures. Of course you don't want to! From now on, you always want to know exactly: How strong is the fight force of the ÖGB? , and in fact you want him to have no force to fight so that you can continue your non-social government policy, which you have been pursuing since 2000. [[Abg. Schöls: Who pledged the strike fund?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Exactly: Who pledged the strike fund?]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today, it becomes clear that you are submitting an amendment that confirms exactly what I said before. I think it is right that there is this amendment, but at the same time I say: He's the best proof that everything we said happened. [[Abg. Scheibner: Shouldn't we have done it? –... withdraw the application! We don't want you to have evidence of anything! We'll pull him back if you want!]] What I'm still wondering is: Why such a big discussion at BAWAG? – At – and there, Hannes Androsch and Franz Vranitzky were right when they added that – the federal insurance company, the credit institution, in all the crises that social democrats in the government had to clean up because black economists had no economic competence because they actually failed economically, there was no public debate! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: The Androsch...!]] [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Listen to me. Their cry is a confession of guilt – and nothing at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because just Secretary General Lopatka screams like this: And this is not an election campaign to file posters in Lower Austria, on which the SPÖ is constantly equated with all these things – although You know exactly that the SPÖ has nothing to do with that?- Oh, my God! [[Newly lively calls at the ÖVP.]] That's not an election fight?- Oh, my God! - Unmistakable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or do we think of the scene? In the BAWAG. In fact, not half the government has marched into the BAWAG, and I have to say: At one point I understand that he opened a savings book there, that was Jörg Haider. I understand that he changed from the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank to BAWAG. It's kind of comprehensible to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But otherwise, I wonder: What was that signal? – That was election campaign! You have simply made the BAWAG the game ball of your election strategy, and that is irresponsible : to the Austrian banking square, to the employees, to the savers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That's irresponsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that it is election campaign proves that you have not approved an investigation committee in which one could also examine the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank and Raiffeisen International in terms of gas operations in Georgia and Ukraine! That's really an election fight! You have rejected that – the other will take place. This is election: unscrupulous, without regard to the bank, without regard to anything but anything! – The failure of control, financial market control and so on could have been more comprehensive, also related to the other banks. So, please, what's left: You want to tell us that you have economic competence? So how did you deal with this Causa? [[Abg. Wattaul: Do you already have a penthouse?]] – Do you know what: There you can learn a lot from Franz Vranitzky and Hannes Androsch! [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] They were more successful, and they solved such things quite differently! [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] But just as you sit there, it's only about you that there is this black ÖVP republic in Austria. This is your goal, and since the Federal Chancellor does not declare himself as the Chancellor of all Austrians, but as a simple, simple, proficient ÖVP party, that is all: Every pustle, every structure, change everything that way until we're all more black. That's the Quintessence of all these events. And that's where I have to say: That's actually reckless!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4573	The amendment tabled by my colleague, Dr Cap, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Call the ÖVP: Order call! Ordinary call!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4660	Next, Mr Walch. [[Abg. Scheibner: Order calls are no longer in this house at all!]] [[New calls at the ÖVP: order call! Ordinary call!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4715	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Sozialminister! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr Cap, your speech is unique. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's more than disgusting!]] Always the same: You're blaming! And let's put the blame on the others! Let's go back and see what caused you from the SPÖ in Austria. You have to answer the biggest company arguments in the state, over 60,000 workers have lost jobs, you have the AMAG, the "consumer", the DDSG and many more to answer. It was exactly these people you praised here, for example, the colleague Vranitzky: He was at the Landesbank, he took it down – and you take it as an economist! And the colleague Androsch was at the CA, and she was also downgraded. So you can't run! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I understand you're nervous. I am very sorry, it was a loud SPÖ-functionaries in the ÖGB who are responsible for this scandal at the BAWAG and at the ÖGB! [[Congratulations on members of the Liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You are yelling so much because it was a good lender for you, because the SPÖ has used the ÖGB financially and personnel as property. Now the money's gone, now you're breaking away a secret party headquarters, and that's why you're yelling so much. The sad thing is that all this goes at the expense of ÖGB members, at the expense of BAWAG employees and at the expense of ÖGB employees. Now you don't trust yourself to the base anymore! I hear from employees of BAWAG who call me what they have done, but it has spoken – and today already Mr Katzian; I will come back to his topic – no one official from the SPÖ or from the ÖGB has apologised with the employees of BAWAG! They have apologized to the ÖGB and the officials, but not to the employees of the BAWAG. I find this irresponsible. I would just like to say one to Mr Kanzian. [[Abg. Dr. One: His name is Katzian!]] It's interesting: He turns out here and explains to us how good the ÖGB is. Your colleague, you're not the one that's so good outside! Hundreds of thousands of works councils work on the base, no matter which group, and they do the work for the ÖGB. [[Congratulations on members of the Liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You have no right to stand out here and play the high teacher! You are just as much a privilege driver in the ÖGB, because you are the chairman of the private trade union, you also enjoy 80 percent of the last deal of the pension in privileges, and 24 month salaries. [[Oh-noise at the liberals – BZÖ.]] You're also in the highest bodies, like Vice-President Csörgits. Why didn't you know anything? Or did you not ask, What happened to the money? Why did you agree that Mr. Vergestnich was sitting in a penthouse? I made an advertisement at the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2000, because Mr Verzehnitsch, as a wholly owned representative at BAWAG, has been given a penthouse there and has rented it at a lower price. I really have to say, To put yourself out here, to play the upper teacher and to be myself with a benefiter of the privileges, I find that irresponsible! Now the government is going to go and make the emergency doctor for the BAWAG staff – for the good banking institution, in which thousands of employees do good work every day – after SPÖ-ÖGB functionals and BAWAG functionaries with speculation have swept the money in the Caribbean. You can't see anything from conspicuousness anyway; he's probably over there in the Caribbean, and many others. Col. Nürnberger had quickly “crushed ” himself before. This is certainly also a fellow-consul, I know it a hundred percent, for whoever knows Nuremberger and is in the ÖGB, he knows this: He didn't go here and he said: This and I don't want to know! Mr Csörgits, I'd already believed that you'd go to the speaker's desk today and say something. But probably you can't say anything because it could be used against you afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is it a little more concrete?]] This government goes here and protects this bank, it now supports it with a liability in favour of Austria's economic location, for the benefit of ÖGB members and for the benefit of BAWAG employees. I think that is the right way, but not that of Mr Cap or Mr Gusenbauer: Go out and say first: Yes, that's okay! and on the other hand to say: You evil, and this and that. Probably it would have been better for you if we hadn't done anything there. But we do not represent the interests of the mismanagement of SPÖ, but we represent the interests of workers in the bank and in the ÖGB! [[Congratulations on members of the Liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You of the Social Democrats are primarily responsible for the fact that ÖGB's representation of interests is now just ahead of the pleite. We from the government support them so that we can have a corresponding social partnership. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I ask those responsible of the ÖGB to: It would be time for the SPÖ presidency to adopt itself as much as Nuremberger – please, as soon as possible! – and it would be time to convene the Federal Congress, to discuss the Statutes and the Machensschafts there, to reduce all privileges and not to make the election so much that their own people will be elected there, but in a democratic way, all the political groups represented in the ÖGB can set up a candidate as president and hold an original election in which each member has the right to elect his president. Then: It must belong to the past that a union union – as SPÖ has so far done – is used as a property and for opposition policy. Mr Cap! That's where I want to know where the money came from. Look Once in the SPÖ party! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: There's nothing left! It's empty!]] Perhaps Mr. Wenninger once passed the SPÖ with a barn of money and lost it there, and it's in your party bank. Maybe you'll find a lot of things there. First of all, we call for the ÖGB to be re-assembled and over-party, as provided for in the Statutes, and for the funds and the strike funds to be disclosed accordingly. If money is spent there, then not only can this be done, as up to date, Weninger and resistance, but it must do a body. No cents should be spent unless all the political groups represented in the ÖGB agree. Next, the privilege stand must be abolished in the hands of Mr Katzian and Mr Csörgits. Don't give up, leave these funds in the ÖGB, they won't allow you! We have carried out in the government the reduction of privileges in a pension reform, which means that all are equal, but you have approved the back of it without consent and without the approval of the union members. Such a privilege stadium is irresponsible to the ÖGB members! [[Congratulations on members of the Liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] This scandal has to be reworked on the spot! Everything has to be laid open. Those responsible must be asked to check out: Recompensation and severe punishment! Only in this way can we save the ÖGB. Then it would look good for the future of employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4847	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Also for you: 10 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e4869	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you've been talking to the people about the BAWAG or this whole situation in the last two weeks, you've learned that there are two things that really embarrass and impose them. One is how the ÖGB Summit behaved as the owner of BAWAG, and the second is how the government behaves, with its staging, so clearly aimed at weakening the employee's representation. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's right!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Go to the ÖGB [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That is contrary to the facts you are saying!]] The behaviour of the ÖGB tip as the owner of the BAWAG was simply responsible or irresponsible! You wonder how such a thing can happen in such an organization at all, and then you simply come to it that it is a fact that the ÖGB decision-making structures are intrude and that there is too little control – not only since the BAWAG scandal, but for many years and decades! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's got a system!]] That's what we've discussed over and over again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, what happens there is a moral image of the ÖGB, and you simply have to call it that way. Only: What you will not succeed – even on the side of the government – is to do now as if you could attach it to one or two people. If such a thing happens like this BAWAG story, over years and decades, then there are a lot more people inside, who may not have done something themselves, but who are co-responsible for these structures, for this transparency and for this weakness in control. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are still more!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly what we say!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, Mr Neugebauer, is also about the responsibility of the Bureau in the ÖGB. I wonder how quickly the ÖVP – and I am always fascinated by it – forgets where it is or was in it. That was the case with the finances, which was the case with the budget deficit before black and blue, then black-orange came to the government. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was already a red finance minister!]] There was red-black, you were responsible and tell us for years that you didn't know anything at all and didn't notice anything, and you only criticized the SPÖ, although you were equally responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And a red Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Red Minister of Finance! Red Federal Chancellor!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What you are doing today, Mr Neugebauer, I think this is really remarkable: They come out here as former Vice-President at the ÖGB Bureau – as Vice-Presidents come Get out of here! – and do as if this whole affair and structure in the ÖGB had nothing to do with you at all! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What questions did you ask at the ÖGB? Where was your control within the Bureau? What's your responsibility? – Do not act like if you have nothing to do with it again! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to transparency and decision-making structures, the ÖGB needs a great deal of follow-up until it is possible that it would be very good to put some women in top positions, because the ÖGB is actually women-free in some areas. [[Abg. Großruck: (significant to SPÖ) There you have to talk, not here!]] But so far, black and red have walled the same thing. To the second side, to the government side: The second thing that really shocks people is the way the government is doing in the last few days. This is not about this law that we are adopting today. We'll... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha? What is it about?]] I'll tell you right now, wait a little bit, I can still explain! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true at all! People are happy...!]] We will also agree to this law in third reading, because we simply consider it necessary and right that for the BAWAG... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is hypocrites!]] No, that's not hypocritical, it's consistent. We want this liability to be decided on for the BAWAG. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Consequence of hypocrisy is that!]] What does not work, however, is cynicism, with which German Chancellor Schüssel acts there, saying that he wants on the one hand – he wants! – the security of the population, it wants to give security to the people and, on the other hand, it wants to strengthen social partnership. I would like to point out to you once again – Mr Cap mentioned briefly – what Chancellor Schüssel has said, and I would like to tell you what it has done. The Federal Chancellor said that the BAWAG stood the water to the neck, and he compared it to the situation in the flood. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And we need a common effort! He said that too!]] I'll tell you one thing: I'm coming... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It takes a joint effort, he said!]] Don't yell at me like that, Mrs. Colleague. It's incredible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I tell you, I come from an area, from a region where we experienced the floods in 2002, I come from the Kamptal. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... They weren't there!]] There thousands of people have been threatened in their existence in 2002, and if you only take the word “flood” into your mouth, then there the whole memory of the danger of despair breaks out of this threat of existence. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We did the same thing back then! Like now! You just talked!]] [[Further calls.]] And you don't have to wonder... [[Abg. Scheibner: You spoke like today! We've done it!]] You don't have to wonder if the people who experienced it in 2002 then when you use such images as “high water” or “water to the neck” that associate with what all this can mean in terms of threat of existence, and then go to the bank to eliminate their deposits – you don't need to wonder about that – and thus the situation for both the BAWAG and the Österreich financial centre worsens even further. [[Abg. Murauer: What kind of pictures do you take?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Hundstorfer has already said that the situation is dramatic! Already!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Already before, Mr. Hundstorfer said that the situation is dramatic! And Mr. Häupl said: "A sourry!"]] In this sense, I see what you have done here and what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic always tries to conjure, namely that this was sensible action. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Dramatic is the situation, he said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Before!]] That may have been intentional action, but it certainly wasn't! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A “saustal”, said Häupl!]] In the interests of the security of the population and the strengthening of the social partners, which you always want to claim, it was certainly not sensible, but that was most unbelievable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e5330	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the German law on the acceptance of liability for the financing of railway material, including the title and receipt in 1391 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, with which a federal law on the acceptance of liability for the future assurance of BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeiter und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkass AG created, the Federal Finance Act and the National Bank Act amended and a federal law on the acquisition of shares of the Austrian National Bank was created in 1447 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have been silent, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Kogler before. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Cap. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments referred to or the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues and others have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Sections 1 and 3. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for an amendment which seeks to delete the Rules of Procedure. 2 C 1 and Art. 3 and 4 on the content. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 1 and Art. 3 and 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues on the acquisition of OeNB shares by the Federal Government. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on fundamental improvements in banking supervision in Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[12:00:01]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e5474	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 and 2 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will allow for the immediate implementation of the legislative acts adopted by the National Council. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol. 'No objection shall be raised in response to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 and 2. Agenda item 1: Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1391, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, with which the Federal Act on the acceptance of liability for the financing of railway material (EUROFIMA law) is amended (1446, e.g.) Agenda item 2: Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law, with which a federal law on the acceptance of liability for the future assurance of BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeits und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse AG was created, the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2006 and the National Bank Act 1984 were amended and a federal law on the acquisition of shares of the Austrian National Bank was created (1447 of the supplements). Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Stupid, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 2/1. Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 2/2 EA. Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, bring in the motion for a resolution Supplement 2/3 EA, which is set out in the key points. In accordance with Article 55(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall: 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Cap, colleagues, tabled the amendment to Supplement 2/4. Deputies Mag. Kogler, colleagues and Dr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, ask for separate votes in additions II/1 and II/2 respectively. Votes: On agenda item 1: The draft law is adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1446, of the second and third reading supplements. On agenda item 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1447, will be adopted unanimously, in a separate vote in the second reading, in the light of the amendment amendment, in part by majority and in third reading. The amendment Annex 2/4 is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution (Annex 2/2 EA) is rejected (S, G). The motion for a resolution (Annex 2/3 EA) is rejected (S, G). There is a desire by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 and 2 (Annex B).’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of the read part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. According to § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed approved as part of the minutes of the official minutes at the end of this meeting. [[12:03:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-08-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00148_d7e5564	I am still saying that questions 4212/J to 4229/J have arrived at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 23. May 2006, 10 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
