ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3038	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen to the House. The Official Protocol of 149. Meeting of 18 March 1990 In May 2006, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Felzmann, Glaser and Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3072	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrer is represented by the Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallat. [[10:00:54]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3108	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Creating the Future Partnership – A Modern Family and Marriage Law” Mr Scheibner is the first to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3135	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days and weeks, the discussion on the SPÖ BAWAG and ÖGB scandals has covered an important measure, namely that after long discussions and discussions, the Minister of Justice has been able to send a draft for the better creation of so-called patchwork families in review. We hope that in this legislative period it will be possible to implement these necessary improvements for this new family form, which is no longer the exception, but in some areas has already become the rule. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Mrs Minister for Justice, we are going to be Support you with this! For us from the BZÖ, family policy as a whole is of particular importance. Since 2000, Mr President, we have unfortunately taken very, very positive measures to improve the family situation in Austria, against the SPÖ's votes, because you are already intervening. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] In the 1990s we had to note that a large part of the families, especially that has lived with several children, hard at the poverty line or below. We have created a massive social improvement for families in Austria, with the increase in family allowances, but above all with the introduction of child care allowances. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have to imagine this: In 2005 there are €1.5 billion – I emphasize: €1.5 billion! – has been paid for child care alone. Unfortunately, you voted against the opposition, you are against it today and criticise it all. We know that we are not in the end with this in the area of family care. Child care facilities should also be extended – but not as you would like to, namely, that children should be moved into state-controlled kindergartens, but we want to allow flexible forms of childcare, where it is also a matter of giving ladies and gentlemen care and employment opportunities for women in rural areas. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] This is the way in which we deal with this question. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also a question of further raising the limits of the award, or our aim is to abolish them for child care money at all. Another area – and the Minister of Justice, as has been said for a few months now – is adapting the legal situation of families to the current situation. You know, ladies and gentlemen, even if you are not interested in it, but it is nevertheless important for our families that our marriage and family law originates in its core from 1811 and the marriage law from 1938, namely from the time after the “connect” of Austria to Nazi Germany. [[towards SPÖ]] It should be a matter of course that we think that neither the family concept of 1811 nor the family concept of 1938 corresponds to what we did in the 21st century. A century for our families and especially for our children. It is a miracle that a law such as the GTC has kept 200 years with its matrimonial measures and provisions. But then it was the exception, almost a shame, when someone had children without being married. Today the situation has changed. In Austria we have 700 000 couples with children, but already 110 000 living communities with children and 150 000 single parents. In 2001 alone – this figure will have increased since then – there were 75 000 so-called patchwork families, i.e. families where couples live together, whether with or without a marriage permit, where one or more partners from earlier partnerships have included children in this new community. From this outdated legal situation there are no equal rights for these communities, for example the stepchildren. That is not to be seen, ladies and gentlemen. It is not to be seen that children are treated differently in their rights, whether parents are in a marriage, whether they are their physical children or whether they are in other communities and the children come from former partnerships. I therefore say quite clearly: Our principle is: How adult people live together, that is their private matter, because the state does not interfere, there should be no discrimination, there are no privileges either! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We are concerned, however, with the rights of children. And communities of life, families with children must be treated equally. Mr Minister of Justice, I know that you would have imagined more, even if we had a lot more in mind, but it is an approach that, in particular as regards representation rights, for example in schools or in hospital treatment, we should have equal rights for the partners towards the children, that there should be access rights to the rental right, that there should be Witness withdrawal rights, and that there should also be the possibility for the stepparent parts of care. These are all sensible and important measures, and I hope that we can continue to implement them accordingly. I know that some people here have a different picture of the ideal state of partnerships, ladies and gentlemen, but here it is not about ideological discussions, either in one or the other direction, but here it is about helping the children's rights to break through, and there can be no compromises and severages. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] However, I believe that there must be further further measures, such as the reform of marriage law and divorce law, because if, for a variety of reasons, marriage, i.e. marriage, is something very special, then one should also consider why the number of marriages since 1974 has fallen by 20 percent. Because of this, the outdated right to divorce and divorce, which means that many do not dare to go to mourning or to stand-in officials, because at a divorce rate of up to 50 percent they simply fear the consequences and believe that there is no need for an orderly partnership. That is why not only old-fashioned provisions from 1811, such as morning gift and marriage goods, should be abolished, but also questions whether the idea of marriage with marriage be taken care of today, in the 21st century. In the 20th century, it is still to be maintained, especially when it is caught that even after a marriage of this care idea is still to be maintained, leading to massive social impairments on the part of the life partners. This will not only be the men, but also the women in the future if, as we all want, the differences in income are equalized accordingly. That's what we want to talk about. In this area some sacred cow must be slaughtered. But once again, ladies and gentlemen: It is important to us... – Yes, Mr Oillinger, you can show about it here, as there may already be reservations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[the speaker points towards ÖVP]] But on the other hand, I also say quite honestly to you, I do not want the discussion about living communities and patchwork families to be limited only to how to deal with homosexual partnerships. We are concerned with equality and legal improvement, in particular of partnerships with children. We are interested in this, and the company is also interested in it in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Justice Minister, in this sense we hope that you will prevail with your ideas. Our support is yours. However, this should not end, but we must bring the right of marriage, the right of divorce in Austria to a modern standard.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3284	Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, Gastinger, spoke on a preliminary opinion. 10 minutes of speaking time will be kept. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We all know that marriage and family law is a particularly sensitive area of justice. I don't think I need to talk about this in this circle, especially in the House. We know that the last novel of marriage law took about twelve years until it actually saw the light of the world. But there are still some things that we no longer feel today. In the discussion in connection with my small family law package, which I have now sent to review, I also had to find that it is really a very sensitive area, which we need to discuss very long and very detailed. It is also particularly important to me that there is a great social acceptance for all changes in family law. This is something that is particularly important and important. When we look at the family development of the last years and decades, we certainly remember the large families – they used to be going on and on. In the meantime, society has developed towards small families. There are even spouse families where only two spouses live together. On the one hand, we note that the number of marriages is falling steadily, but on the other hand, the number of “patchwork families” is increasing. In the rise is also the number of seconds, what if the model of If we want to keep marriage up, it's quite welcome. It is also important – and this also needs to be clear to us when discussing family and marriage law and partnerships – that family law on the one hand has a general character of conflict settlement, but on the other hand it can also be quite effective in terms of prevention and behavioural control, as we want to deal with our families in our state. That is exactly what we need to consider if we are to discuss changes to family law. However, we must also bear in mind that we are not lagging behind social development with our legal system. This is also something that is particularly important. From this point of view and from this point of view, I have now seen the changes related to the family package. I am very glad that it is coming, and I hope that the review will be positive. We also need to bear in mind that family law has changed from a more patriarchal system of which we thank God long ago, to a family model of partnership. But I still see great need for action here today to make further changes in this area. I mean, in the next legislative period, starting now in this legislative period – that is why we also have this current hour, which I am very pleased to have come here today – we will have to deal with the development of marriage, family and, above all, divorce rights. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I just want to torture you very briefly with numbers. At our family survey, we had a statistician, University lecturer Dr. Kytir, who spoke in connection with 1964 as the “golden age of the family” – I was born in the “golden age of the family”. At that time, there were 57,533 marriages, with approximately 38,000 to 40,000 marriages now commuting; in 2005, there were 39,030 marriages. So we see the number of marriages going back, and that should give us some thought. I have thought a lot about it, also with my employees, and we have come to the conclusion that our right to marriage – my previous speaker has already addressed this with very clear words – is something anachronistic. We have already changed a very large number of legal fields that came from this time in a positive direction. I think matrimonial law should be the next law we should look at and introduce. [[Congratulations on the liberals – BZÖ, on representatives of the ÖVP and on the Greens.]] – It rarely happens to me that I have applause from this side. [[towards Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: “Tosser applause” from ÖVP!]] I have already made some changes in the small family law package, which is now under review, first of all with regard to the definition of living communities. I think that was more than necessary. We have practically expanded the boots rights for married couples, which is very, very positive. We have done a first shattering of marital rights: Recovery, morning gift and the like have been deleted. We also, for the first time – I believe, this is very important too, but we certainly need an in-depth and very sensitive discussion – to regulate the freedom of the spouses to design with regard to the marriage-born marriage. I think that this is an important step and that these steps are going in the right direction. But now, if we look into the future: From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, I would imagine that we should discuss the future of marriage rights. Modern matrimonial law should also extend the design possibilities of spouses, especially when it comes to the marital property that is acquired. However, we must keep in mind that there are more and more secondarys, many Second, however, it is not possible to close down because wealth is already present and the consequences of divorce and separation cannot be waived. It is important that we also be very sensitive – I emphasize: very sensitive – to deal with the maintenance right after marriage. We are currently assuming that the maintenance is also characterised by the subsequent solidarity of the partners. But I believe that it is important to take into account, in times like those in which God is thank you, both partners are very often employed, also to take into account the needs of the maintenance of spouses or divorced spouses. You could think of another model. I can tell you that in Germany there is currently a model in review, which in principle assumes that each spouse himself is responsible for his care, both during marriage and after marriage. I know that, since the principle of indebtedness in Austria has quite a legal tradition, this will lead to serious discussions, but I think we should discuss this indebtedness principle again and really deal with it in order to find a regulation. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We should also consider the children's requirements. There are enough examples here where parents practically save their children’s studies from their mouths, de facto then have no wealth, but in the case of children’s marriage, they still have to contribute the equipment, although the children may be richer than their parents because of their studies. So here we should also consider whether we – the times have changed, we have to see that too – should not align this equipment requirement if we want to maintain it according to the need of the children. It should be thought in this direction, as I mean. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, it would be desirable to return to the ABGB, as is already the case in some of our neighbours. Then we would also have this law from 1938 back where it actually belongs, namely in the General Civil Code. I have not yet talked much about the children – I already see the red light. You know that I am particularly concerned that we are also strengthening children's rights. In particular, I am also concerned that we create rules which will enable us to support the caring parent through the stepparent part of the common household when it comes to “patchwork families”, when it comes to living communities. There will be further considerations to consider whether it is in the direction of care leave or the like. But we will certainly have to discuss this with representatives of the economy. Finally, I also believe that the children have the right to both parents, that is very, very important, and that, with our Austrian model of joint care, where I recently submitted a study to the High National Council, we are on the right path and that we should continue to think about how we can strengthen these family relationships even in the future without too much intervention as a state. I see that the red light shines here – in the sense of that, I would like to close my remarks for the first time and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3370	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that every speaker has 5 minutes of speaking time. First of all, Mrs Steibl. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3401	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Changes are part of life – and the structure of the family has also changed. Once there were almost exclusively multiple families, so to a large extent today there are only more families with one child. The development also goes more towards single-parent families and so-called patchwork families. This development must no longer be closed down by legal policy. But I also say that it is important that we take courage in our partnership, in our marriage and in our family, because it is part of our culture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Statistics show that there are currently more than 700 000 marriages with children under 18 years of age, that the number of living communities is 109 000, the number of single parents is 151,000, and the number of “patchwork families” at 75 000. I think that the proposal for a Family Law Amendment Act by Federal Minister Gastinger will create a new structure that will improve the situation of the “patchwork families” or completely eliminate disadvantages. Ladies and gentlemen! But I do not want to go too far into detail now, because this will be done by my colleague, Maria Theresia Fekter. It was she who co-negotiated these proposals for improvement for our EIA, and I would like to thank her for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Brake it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Creatively co-designed!]] The child's well-being is also important to us! The child's well-being is important to us, and we say that every reform must put the child's well-being in the foreground. Especially this Federal Government, with Wolfgang Schüssel as the Federal Chancellor, has shown what offensive family policy we lead to the strengthening of the freedom of choice for different forms of life at this time. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] Mr Oellinger, you can speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Oillinger: Unfortunately not!]] I know you can't bear this, but I'll tell you: I also have the courage to live in a marriage, and have been doing this for 35 years, with all heights and depths, and I think that many people in this country like to do it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Still!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] As far as family policy is concerned, I would like to remind you once again, at least the audiences in front of the televisions, of positive things. Example: Childcare allowance for all. In 1999, there were 80,000 pensioners, today the 170,000. The generation contract is also important to us. I am thinking of the introduction of family hospice, which should enable you to first degree for up to six or nine months relatives as well as toddlers can accompany in difficult situations. – The SPÖ, the opposition voted against. We have not yet managed to implement this for infants. I would also like to say: The better compatibility between work and family is important to us. Never before have so many women been in employment in Austria. It is very likely that the Parent Time Act also contributes very decisively to this, according to which you can care for your children until the seventh year of life in part, regardless of whether you are a father or a mother. I say immediately because the opposition always says that the childcare allowance is a step back: No, no, no, A survey by the FESSEL Institute in the summer of 2005 showed that part-time workers are satisfied with their part-time work. It is also important for us to be able to stop the care in the future, and the ÖAAB is also important to achieve the anchoring of a minimum tax-free living per family member. In view of this, I very much doubt that the opposition can still blame us for social cold – a winged phrase of the SPÖ. I'd just like to tell you: Of the € 1.4 million put by Flöttl junior into the Caribbean – 1.4 billion, apologies; even worse – we could, for example, pay the total cost of the care money 2005, €1.39 billion, without taxpayers, we could pay the child care allowance for all stakeholders in 2005, €1.36 billion without taxpayers, we could spend the medications in Austria free of charge for four years because the prescription fee is € 343 million per year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: billions!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's not your money!]] – I just want to give that to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3536	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. He too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, if we did not make the absolutely unmistakable purchase of fighters and fighters, people in that country could live for 30 years without concern and need. If you already make comparisons, please also this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is what you should tell people outside of the world, how you're staring at the money, the tax money, for completely pointless purchases, instead of thinking about how people could be better. If you would, you could go down here and make such comparisons, then you would be credible – otherwise you are not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, of the oranges! I can say that I think it is good that you have discussed the issue of "the development of family and partnership law today. Whoever of you does not know that there was a survey in the Ministry of Justice last week, which really was on the verge of European family and partnership policy, in which Mrs Minister pointed out how the way could actually go, would not be the ÖVP, who must say: You've gone a lot further here, Mrs. Minister, and I congratulate you on that! However, the fact that you cannot put things into practice is clear, and the result of this survey is clear, namely that one of the most modern family rights, one of the most human-friendly family rights in the 1970s, has fallen back on the most backward family law in Europe. – That’s how it is, and you don’t care, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, in this context I may also be able to quote the path that experts have repeatedly described as a Khol-Fekter legal course, by trying more or less to influence people in our country's opinion of values, your opinion of living together. – We do not want that in this country, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, you will have to take note of it at some point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only tell you this, Mrs Fekter, because you are constantly producing yourself here and saying that with the ÖVP there will be no “Ehe light” – you are basically against everything, and if you are honest, you will say so, as I suppose, in your next speech here –: There are many people in this country who are divorced and who do not want to marry again, but still live together in a partnership relationship, five years, ten years, 15 years, and these people want the state to respect, accept and also provide a corresponding legal framework for their form of partnership. It is not at all clear why, for example, persons who are in a community for 15 years do not even have a legal right to inheritance if one of the partners dies. – That’s what you want to prevent, you don’t want “Eh light”. It is embarrassing how much you try very backwardly here to bring into family law an apparently medieval code. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I am very glad that this has been discussed here today. However, I am surprised that this has been the subject of today's debate, for I have to say, in the knowledge of what Mrs Minister - and I would say that there is not necessarily the whole FPÖ behind it - and what you are prepared to give from the EIA: That's a difference of a thousand and one. In fact, this event today is a very massive act of unkindness to the EIA, which we very much welcome so that there is no doubt. I think it's really time to show the government how little consensus there is. I do not know whether this is already the spring of the new party observer, Mr Westenthaler, with whom we otherwise only come to the jokes of the country. If that is the case, I would like to thank Mr Westenthaler on this path for this confrontation within the government parties, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say once again what we stand for from the SPÖ: We want from a supply model to independent people, ladies and gentlemen! What we do not want is kindergartens, such as in Lower Austria, where mothers have to pick up the children at noon and bring them back to kindergartens at 2 p.m. in the afternoon, so that this is not compatible with a workplace at all. [[Abg. Kainz: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Even if you say about the ÖVP that you are for child money, that means in reality: Unemployment for women to exist in the working world! [[Abg. Kainz: What does the kindergarten cost in Vienna?]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is brutal, which is quite contemptuous – and we simply do not want that from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want a fair and equal partnership! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, I think the people are completely satisfied that you are trying to pour out your medieval values on them. That is why we are also saying in this context: no to Wolfgang Schüssel! for the people of the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3677	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. She too speaks for five minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3698	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim, I am very pleased that you so praise the BZÖ family policy of our Minister of Justice, because I think that is what we are on a very good path. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Otherwise it must be said that SPÖ has completely adopted a constructive family policy. Basically, you're going by the SPÖ because absolutely by the reality. In this context, for example, I just recall Mrs Kuntzl's release yesterday on child care allowances. – However, it must be said that two thirds of the population of Austria call the childcare allowance “very good” and are content with it. – But you, Mrs Kuntzl, tell you about the SPÖ, because that is not your view of values, because it does not correspond to your party ideology, the child care allowance would “shoot the women back” by “light years”. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – On the other hand, we are making policies for the women and men in Austria, and we can see that people are really satisfied with this of our policies. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The family is a central concern of the policy of BZÖ, because we know that the family has a very high priority in society: whether it be for the education of children, or also for the care and care of older people. Studies – not least a study by the Institute of Higher Studies – show us that the family policy of the BZÖ is very good that we are on the right track. We have also achieved important stage targets. As I have already mentioned, two thirds of child care workers are satisfied with this. We are also very pleased that the ban on the profession, which at the time existed in the case of a reference to karenz money, is now over, that there is now freedom of choice as well as a means of service that people now have the opportunity to continue to exercise their profession in addition to the care of the child. [[Abg. Oillinger: So far, very little is true of what you have said!]] Family work is finally recognized by and through us as a performance – and this is particularly true of the fact that child training times are taken into account for the pension and that fewer working hours are necessary in order to receive a pension, as family and educational periods are at last counted. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: We must face up to the actual developments and diversity of the living family forms, especially and, of course, to the protection of children, they are the ones who cannot choose in which partnership, in what way of living together their parents want to shape their life form. There are, as we all know, a lot of kids living in so-called patchwork families. That is why I particularly welcome the initiative of Minister of Justice Gastinger, who is taking steps in the right direction with the Family Law Amendment Act, namely that there is no more discrimination on the part of these children and that there will also be equal rights in the future. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In this context, I would particularly like to mention that there will finally be a regulation regarding the relationship between stepparents and stepchildren in the future; I would also like to mention the future assurance and promotion in connection with the visitation support that children whose parents are disputed can also have contact with both parents by, as it were, visiting both parents regularly with a neutral person. Ladies and gentlemen! This is family policy, which is based on reality and which focuses primarily on the well-being of children. Ladies and gentlemen! As the family party, the BZÖ will continue its successful path so far. We will work for the abolition of the earnability limit, as well as the so-called father participation – and we will continue to give families continuity, trust and security in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3769	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Their speaking time is also limited to 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3790	Mr President. High house! Mrs Achleitner, not you are on a good path, but Mrs Gastinger is on a good path! [[Abg. Scheibner: But it belongs to us!]] That's a big difference. Mrs Gastinger does or would like to make a policy in the area of marriage and family law, which unfortunately is not even carried by the liberals – BZÖ to the full and by the ÖVP at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Fekter says that she actively contributed to this law. – Yes, Mrs Colleague, you have actively slowed it down! They have prevented the law from being much better than it is now. You did that, but you did not contribute to the creation of a law that corresponds to the actual conditions in Austrian families and that really addresses the needs of the families. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because these needs only know you! Forced luck!]] You do not do that because for you the screw you turn on still the word “Eh” is and because you still cannot accept that couples also live together without marriage and that of course these couples also belong to support. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Then you didn't read it!]] Mrs Minister, thank you for your initiative! I also believe that this is an essential concern for you, and I also very much appreciate the way in which you make policy, with a very large openness that you show. It must be imagined that in the pre-text on the upcoming draft laws on marriage and family law there is a sentence that seeks comparable things. That's what I'm saying: This proposal for a law, as well as a signal, is intended to take a first careful step towards resolving identified social problems. The draft is certainly still far from a solution that concerns all questions. - Quote. I think that's really remarkable, Mrs. Minister. I also see it that way, but not only because I agree with you in terms of content, but because you make a policy that is differentiated and does not say flat-rate, that is now the yellow of the egg, and either are all 100 percent for it or it does not work. In this sense, of course, it is much easier for an opposition party to respond to your proposals very differently. What I think is very, very good at the templates you want to bring in is that they are already a bit far away from reality. But something that is very, very bad is that it is still determined that the marriage of new couples is the criterion for how the new families should be designed. You have to imagine: We have 400 000 people living in so-called patchwork families in Austria, i.e. in families where remarried partners come together and where children are brought from birth. These are enormously many people – and they need new legal frameworks. This is not only about inheritance law, but also about everyday things, such as: bringing the child to school or picking up, discussing school questions, signing excuses, signing notes, going in parenthood, something you, Mrs Steibl, saw as so important. A social father, that is, a man who lives in a fixed life partnership with a woman, cannot go on a care leave when the child is ill. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If he lives in the common household, he can do that!]] He can't go to Karenz, for example; that's impossible. That is exactly what we would urgently need, because that is the everyday life of families! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's where the families need support! I know you're shaking your head now because that's not what you want. That's where it splits. That's exactly the ore-conservative family policy, which always gets through with you, where you cement marriage as the only true form of life. [[Abg. Steibl: What does “orbite conservative ” mean? That's a premise!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If that is not the case, please agree to more generous legislative solutions! - You don't. Here is a way to measure how your family policy actually looks. Of course, the current improvements are only small steps, but I am glad that there will be them at all. But it could be much more. These are questions that cost nothing. These are questions that only cost a yes to new forms of family and life. But this yes you still refuse from the ÖVP and punish all lies if you say you are open to new forms of life or the family is so important to you. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Unfortunately!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only important thing for you is your idea of family, the family as you define it. Unfortunately! But I'll tell you one thing: The sufferers are the children! But you don't seem to care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3934	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e3955	The Greens are not able to learn because otherwise they would have to know how our family image is that the children are particularly important to us. [[Oh-noise with the greens]] We have proved this by our policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Shashing: It is a hypocrisy!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Order call!]] Now you've disqualified yourself, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Scheibner: “Holiness” – that’s not possible!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have thought about how to accompany this speech, and I have heard words that are likely to cause Murren right here. These are: Home is where someone is happy to come, and most of the time that is where the family is. The family gives security, responsibility and assistance, and millions of families feel this responsibility and exactly this family image. Therefore, I believe that it is not extremely close to it, but reasonable to have such a family image. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: No esoteric sayings, please!]] Mr Oellinger, the traditional values are not old-fashioned, but they are desirable by most people. They give people stability and orientation. I do not want a society where no one feels responsible anymore, where every new life partner receives the right to care and duties to the children brought. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I want an orientation that defines parenthood, and I also want an orientation where popularity... [[Abg. Oils: Please! That must not be true!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4072	Mr Oellinger, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4099	... and responsibilities do not represent the values to which people are exposed. We stand for family with responsibility where parents have to bear responsibility for their children and not just a shift in institutions, where children take responsibility for the older generation and where they think not only about waste disposal in state institutions. [[On-the-spot calls at the SPÖ]] Responsibility is a major task in connection with family. [[Abg. Sburny: Did you say “disposal ”?]] Yes, I said, because I reject it, Mrs Colleague! – The state has to support people in this responsibility if they perceive it. [[Abg. Sburny: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Sburny: Please! “Storage” – that’s inconceivable!]] We have made demonstration projects here on this support. Children's money, for example, is one. We have also supported people in terms of co-insurances, where social security cases with the exemption of care are concerned with hospice. That is, we take this responsibility in the family very seriously. You can't shake parenthood – even by divorce! This responsibility falls to the physical parents, and the legislator protects the children. He also helps with the framework conditions that parents can perceive this care. Whether someone takes responsibility for a partner, Mrs. Mandak, that is left to him himself, he can freely decide. Here, the legislator is not to be constantly congratulating. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Through marriage, both partners enter into rights and obligations. And we have now re-appointed that the marital duty also refers to the children brought in. [[Abg. Mandak: Only with married people!]] But if anyone does not want these rights and these obligations, he is living in a loose community of life. Marriage: Rights and obligations. Loose community: less rights and less obligations. People know this, they deliberately choose their model, and there the legislator is not to constantly push a forced corset over these partnerships through ZIP and registered partnership and “Ehe light”. [[New call for tender Mandak]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You're harbinging!]] People voluntarily choose their models, they decide for what they do. Whoever does not go to the office will have his good reasons. Why do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the SPÖs, to know it better and better, why do you also want to bring rights and duties to those people who do not want to go to the office suddenly? [[Abg. May. Worm: Incredible!]] They do this consciously, in order to achieve different legal consequences. [[Abg. Mandak: Because the children need it!]] The legislator should mainly take care of the protection of children. And I agree with Mrs. Minister: patchwork children are also in need of protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4296	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Kuntzl. She too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the family debates here in Parliament, we always hear from the ÖVP the high priority of the family. It means: They have the monopoly for the high importance of the family, everyone else does not care. [[Abg. Ellwall: This is the truth!]] The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you want to determine what family is and what is not family. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Family, these are still parents and children!]] This is the reason why only a little reflection is left, where a lot more could have happened and should actually have happened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] You speak, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about communities of life, of the better security of this form of life, still of a marriage of second class. For you, it is not the definition of family, which Mrs Fekter described earlier, where it is a matter of living together in responsibility and security, but for you the family is still defined by the marriage certificate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] [[Abg. Großruck: She didn't say that!]] This is a very close definition of family living together. As you know, more and more people want to live differently, there are already 300,000 living communities in Austria, which is the life form that more and more people want to live. It is unfortunate that you are blocking a reform that would bring about a better form of life. It is not about a forced corset, ladies and gentlemen, but it is about improving the conditions also for this form of living together, as people want it today, and not to lead anyone to it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] On the topic of 'formification', we will soon come to the next issue, where action is urgently needed: Mr Scheibner said earlier that the state should not interfere. I can really agree with you. And my colleague, Mrs Fekter, has spoken against compulsion. The only problem is that you do exactly the opposite. Keywords: joint care. [[Abg. Ellwall: You want the opposite!]] Some time ago, they passed a law that is a forced happiness: that one cannot choose how to divide the care, but that one must take care of the child together after a divorce. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! Who wrote you that? That's total nonsense!]] I think that's where we all agree: The best condition for the child is if both parents feel responsible after separation and both parents take care of the child. That is of course! But many separations do not go into agreement on the stage, but in the dispute, and your regulation has led to the dispute being brought into the families, that in everyday decisions, for example, school or holiday planning issues become a means of printing in the divorce process, and women are pressured to give up on claims, with the threat: [[Abg. Scheibner: You confused that! Read this again! That's not true!]] Otherwise, I'll always take a line through your bill! It's not going to be the school you want for the child! There won't be the holiday camp the child is looking forward to! Abstain the claims! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's all wrong!]] But you say you care about the well-being of the children, but in truth you have decided to settle where disputes on the back and on the suffering of the children were first created and carried into the families. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! Go in and read the law again!]] Next point: Childcare allowance. – Of course, no one refuses to receive additional money. That's not a question! [[Abg. Grandruck: You've gotten away! You were against it!]] But your own study, which you have submitted, proves that you have not achieved at any point the goals you are supposed to have set yourself. For example, with regard to the better participation of fathers, your own study says: This model of childcare allowance strengthens the traditional role division. It makes it difficult for women to get back into work. [[Abg. Grandruck: Why? Because they can earn more?]] It does not increase birth rate. It is not an additional incentive to have children. Yes, it is a dead end that you have built here, especially for women, and all you're presenting here on success balances is actually a serious case of political self-hypnosis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: €1.5 billion for families! And you're against it! Something's part of that already!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next point, where urgent remedial action is needed and where there is a need for action, is the question of maintenance. It is unworthy that many have to go after the money that is available to the children. There would also be an urgent need for a regulation that could save very many families and very many children material distress.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4564	Mrs. Gastinger has spoken. You now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should like to make a few points which have clearly been misunderstood, especially by the opposition representatives. On the model of common care, we have published a study, and I have already mentioned in my opening speech that I have already sent this study to the House. The result of this study is that the common care is a success model, and that is why – and I am so proud of it – because this Austrian model is based on voluntaryness and agreement. That is the decisive! [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Kuntzl, unfortunately, did not understand this!]] There are two models: There is the German model. In Germany it is the case that in each divorce the common care is practically proposed by the court – except for the child welfare speaks against it. In Austria, through the Childhood Change Act 2001, we have chosen the way for the joint care to take place only if the scheme is agreed. This means that both parents – father and mother – must agree. The study mentioned shows that around 54 percent of divorced parents use this model and that the experience with it was very good, especially that the fears were not true that this would put pressure on parents or, better said, on the parent who mainly cares for the children. At least the pressure is not greater than in the case where no common care is required. I'd like to send you this study. I have a summary of this and would like to give it to you after this debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't care!]] That is really a good way, and I do not want to change that. I do not intend to make a change towards the German model, because I believe that the arrangement with the agreement we have in Austria is the Austrian way, and that is a good way! I would like to stress this here. In connection with the childcare allowance, my previous speakers from the BZÖ have already said that this is very important to us. Childcare money is a very good project, as the great success shows, a project that also gives families more freedom of choice. However, we still see a need for action, and we believe that the limit of merit is too low, because there is a risk that women will be pushed out of work. We don't want to, because we want to make it possible to reconcile work and family. There has to be freedom of choice for women as well as for men, and we see a threshold of gain, which is why we will certainly have to discuss whether to put them up or even remove them. I think that's the right way. [[Abg. Oellinger: This is a BZÖ speech now, Mrs. Minister!]] To sum up, I believe that this discussion today is a particularly important one and that it will help us to bring the necessary changes in family law to the rails in the future. I hope that we can also ensure acceptance for stepchildren, namely those children who grow up in patchwork families, on the one hand, and on the other hand create the framework conditions in such a way that the physical parent, as well as the social parent, can find conditions that enable them to care for these children, regardless of whether they live in a community or in a marriage. That's our goal! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4658	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She too speaks for five minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4679	Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion of the last few days on the family package shows that it is really difficult to make policy with this opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Haha! With your coalition partner! Did you even watch out?]] No matter how it is done, it is definitely wrong. For example, the woman has been a family minister or even in some areas, such as the family programme, with great commitment, has organised Enqueten, given talks and much more. The comment of Mrs Mandak from the Greens was only to try to pick up quickly before the elections. Now again, criticism of Mrs Kuntzl on child care money was to be heard, to that family measure, where €1.5 billion are spent annually for the children. This is perceived as a dead end, as an incision into the rights of women in particular, although the opposite is the case. Another example: Mrs Gastinger has now and also in the past few days quoted a study which shows that more than half of the divorced persons are satisfied with the common care. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please say something to Mrs. Fekter!]] Mr Jarolim complained that only parents and not children had been questioned. This is Mr Jarolim's "great" criticism! Mr Commissioner, would you like to ask a three-year-old if he is satisfied with the common care? Mrs Stadlbauer complained about the fact that no scientific experts have been used. In addition, she said that this common concern would cut women's rights. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have heard from Mrs Kuntzl once again today that she is against the common care. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, talk to the people! They want to take care of their children together. This is also a question of justice: Father and mother should have the right to take care of their children together. Mrs Kuntzl, as you have often been misinformed today. They believe that the common care is octroyed. In the Federal Republic of Germany, ruled by Red and Green, the common care was declared binding at the time. With us in Austria, she is based on the agreement of both parents, and that is also good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] Conflicts are avoided, and it is, as has already been said, justifiable. But to find out these contradictions, I would like to quote Mr Jarolim once again. [[Abg. Oellinger: Say something to the colleague Fekter!]] He said that government work is not based on the social situation of the family. In the same press release he says again, however, the SPÖ welcomes the proposals for the creation of legal framework conditions for the patchwork families. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't bring anyone together, that's the problem!]] So what's the matter now? You should agree once on what you actually represent and what you approve of, what is done in the government and what is not. And that should be reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, as far as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Do you really not understand?]] But it is quite clear that taking the new forms of life into account is a concern of all of us, and in particular the Minister of Justice, because one cannot pass through social reality. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes! The ÖVP already!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We have proved that again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, no human being has something against living communities, even Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Oils: Oh yes!]] Mrs Fekter, too, does not want to harm anyone, as you have said. I don't think it's such a non-reality policy that he closes his eyes to the life forms that we're dealing with today. These new forms of life are also the subject of the Family Law Reform, which is now under review. Above all, and I would like to stress this once again, this family law reform has also taken into account the well-being of children, and that is what lies to us, I hope, at least, all together in the heart. It is also defined for the first time what is a community of life – that is not defined so far – and there are also large rights for life-mates in the “patchwork family”, for the children and so on, and I believe it is also right that we have taken this step. Mr Jarolim said that the state should not interfere with the different forms of life. The state is supposed to create the conditions, which is clear to all of us. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You just shouldn't be medieval!]] But we need to take care of the children, ladies and gentlemen. That is the most important thing, and I believe we are on the right track – and we will continue this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4847	The last speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Their speaking time is equal to 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was a grotesque speech!]] Mr Jarolim, your calls are becoming very disturbing!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4884	Now I'm talking! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not doubt at all that there is only anyone here in the House to whom children are not particularly important. I don't doubt that at all. Children are especially important to those who have – as far as I know all colleagues – certainly. The difference between the ÖVP position, presented by the chairman of the Justice Committee Dr. Fekter, and, for example, the position of the Greens, now formulated by me, is that all children are equally important to us – whether they have rich parents, whether they have poor parents, whether they are from a so-called intact family, because the parents are married, or whether they are a so-called unmarital child, the child of a single parent or a single parent. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Call the ÖVP: We too!]] Single parents or whether they are children who no longer have parents, because they have died or because the parents simply and simply cannot see or feel able to care for their children. All of us children are worth the same! [[Call the ÖVP: We too!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are also committed to the fact that there is no discrimination on the part of the State against children due to the way parents live. That is the important and essential objective. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if I – and now I have personally referred to myself, and this has probably been done by everyone here who has not applauded the President of the Committee on Justice – if I have to listen here in Parliament, I am “getting rid of” my child, my nine-year-old Philipp, because he is going to a full-day school, then this, Mr President, is going to the bottom! [[Lively applause with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This not only insults me, it insults tens of thousands of parents, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of children, and those who hear this will make a picture! Dear Maria Theresia Fekter, the only thing I'm giving away is the trash, and I'm driving it before! [[As a result of the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. A3-934/90) by Mr De Clercq, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.]] That's the only disposal I'll take! Ladies and gentlemen, you are now congratulating: Think about who is supposed to poison the language here, Mr President, and the climate in Parliament! You are, if you call that what we use together for, that all children have the same chances of being “wasted”! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you yelling like this?]] You also belong to this group, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! You supported Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I now come to the important point for me today, namely: How are life forms...
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4997	Mr Kaipel, can we not make these conferences during the current hour such that the speaker is not disturbed?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5012	Mr President, they don't bother me at all. They're not bothering me at all. I'm more concerned about those who are spreading this reactionary ideology here. That bothers me and bothers me more. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But freedom of expression is still in the country?]] Mr President, I am continuing now. What bothers me to stay with it is the fact that we have a completely wrongful situation for same-sex couples in Austria. We must end this wrongful situation and discrimination, because that is, Mrs. Fekter, a permanent impairment and violation of human rights, if the same sexes of lovers and those who are sometimes linked to each other in life are strangers before the law, when people who support each other throughout life, who may be raising children who come from pre-partnerships, are strangers to the law. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Absurd!]] This is the area of action we have, and we should act there, because – and now I come back to the children – children who grow up in such partnerships are actually discriminated against. And this is also a form of patchwork family, Mrs. Minister. I fully support you with this Fuzi-Mini reform that you have presented. I have nothing to do with it, but it's just a fuzi mini reform, that's all. But you've chosen the partner, you're in coalition with the ÖVP! And I'm quite honest because, after human discretion, you're approaching the end of your term of office, I'm glad you've been a minister over the last few months, not Dr. Partik-Pablé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5090	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:07:59]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5111	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5236	The debate on points 1 and 2, 7 to 10, 11 and 12, 13 to 15, 18 to 20, 21 to 23, 25 to 28 and 29 and 30 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed in this way and go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5261	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, F – BZÖ 108 minutes as well as green 117 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What is this: F – BZÖ?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You will notice that soon enough!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This changes every month!]] We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. The proposal will be adopted unanimously. [[11:09:39]] 1. Point report of the Committee on Finance on motions for resolutions 829/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Josef Bucher, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Income Tax Act 1994 – SME Promotion Act 2006 (SMEs-FG 2006) (1466 d.b.) 2. Point report of the Financial Committee on the opposition of the Federal Council (1440, e.g.) against the law decision of the National Council of 2 July 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons in the territory of the Member States and the right to freedom of movement for persons within the territory of the Member States and their right to freedom of movement for persons within the territory of the Member State of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence in the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the place of residence of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of residence of the place of residence of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of residence of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the Member State of residence of the Member State of the Member State of residence of the Member State of another Member State of the Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of another Member State of March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5337	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker to speak was Mr Matznetter. His welcome time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5367	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! For one and a half years, it has taken time to acknowledge the fact that the “greatest” tax reform ever needs the most urgent repairs. I would like to remind you of what has been done in these past two periods to SMEs, to small and medium-sized enterprises – thus the economy as a whole and also to employees – through false policies – through false policies of the past. Let's start with the first point. If you want employment domestically, you will not reach it at the push of a button by ordering: Today, jobs have to be created! – No, the prerequisite is that companies – entrepreneurs – are able to hire new employees in their businesses. [[Abg. Grossruck: But not in the union!]] And when can they do that? – They can then do so if, by expanding their capacity – whether in production or in the service – they enter into new economic activities or expand those that exist. What does a reasonable legislator do in such a case? – It promotes such an investment taxed. And why does he do that? – Because he wants it not to be invested in the stock exchanges, in options, in other investments in the financial market, but that it is invested – not in the Caribbean, but in Austria! [[Call the ÖVP: In the Caribbean!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Now there are a few gentlemen who have nothing better to do than simply delete this promotion – investment-free amount! They were the ones who removed this advantage, and they were the ones who worked against the small and medium-sized enterprises that invest in the country. [[Abg. Grossruck: And that's why they all choose the SPÖ?]] As a result of the fact that our shake-reed-maker from the bank has just come up with a statement: You voted in favour of something else, Mr Deputies: The “great support action” already existed in this supposedly biggest tax reform, namely to international corporations, which will be supported for their investments in loss subsidiaries around the world! That's what you did: Removal of the funding for those investing in the domestic, and promotion of the biggest companies and thus their investors, mostly foreign investment funds, hedge funds and others, to whom you have given the taxes! This was the tax reform brand ÖVP/FPÖ – BZÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, that needs a repair – a comprehensive repair! –, I believe, is not a question. The SME package today is an admission to the need to repair. – Unfortunately, there has not been anything from your advances, Mr Neudeck: You, the BZÖ, wanted to set up a Commission to repair the tax reform in September. But it has never come together, and since then there has been no more talk of it. [[Abg. Neudeck: You're wrong again!]] So what happened? – It is not an investment favour, but rather a small relief for the revenue-expenditure calculators, provided they do not have to take advantage of the profit but can invest. So a small approach – let's be glad he's here! Disturbing is that you can also invest in securities, but that is something the ÖVP has to solve with itself. I announce that we agree to this as a mini-repair – also because it is an admission to the failure of the major tax reform – but I would like to make the following request so that we have a comprehensive SME package: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept this motion for a resolution which I have tabled, unless you are in favour of maintaining the minimum corporate tax, unless you continue to support record winners in full, and you are against the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises have an investment advantage, and unless you are against the fact that the medium-sized person receives €300 to €400 in relief. I wish you good luck in voting on this proposal. We will certainly not have made this request the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5511	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Matznetter on the discharge of the middle class is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5631	Next speaker is MP Dkfm. Dr. stupid. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5652	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, you do not need to agree to repair the tax reform because there is no repair of the tax reform! But you are cordially invited to accept a medium-sized policy of this federal government – you are invited, Mr Matznetter, to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, let me say one thing: Today, when we adopt this funding law for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is undoubtedly a great day for small businesses, a consistent continuation of a medium-sized policy since the political turn in the spring of 2000. From the economic package I to the economic package II to the growth and location package, we have pursued a consistent policy which has led not to us from the ÖVP or the government, but that the Institute for Higher Studies, Professor Felder, recently declared that this medium-term policy over a period of six years has resulted in a discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises. businesses of 1.3 billion € – 18 billion Schilling discharge within six years! ............................................................................................................................................................ Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no such policy as this government has done for years before: a medium-sized policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We do this in the absence of a policy that they have operated for years in the Social Democratic Ministry of Finance: Promoting large national companies that have received billions of subsidies and have then reduced tens of thousands of jobs. This is the difference between socialist financial policy and bourgeois financial policy! Let me also say why we do this; that has a very simple reason: Because we know that the small and medium-sized enterprises, the many small family businesses, are the backbone of our economy! You are the real job engine in our country, ladies and gentlemen. This is no contradiction to large businesses, because large businesses also employ many small and medium-sized enterprises, but the actual job engine is undoubtedly the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises according to the statistics – according to everything we have in documents. If we do this in the form of a triple strategy – first tax relief, second red tape reduction and thirdly new funding aid in the form of small loans and increased guarantees – then we do so so so that this multitude of small and micro-enterprises has a fair chance to successfully operate business in this country for hundreds of thousands of workers to whom they offer jobs. Let me also say the following: If we decide on this package today, I would like to admit that it was not easy, it was difficult and long negotiations over weeks and months. But what is available today is undoubtedly something to which we can say good conscience, which is an important step forward for the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, a big step forward, especially for the many small revenue-expenditure calculators, who first have 10 percent of their profits tax-free if they invest in investment assets, and the second is to receive a three-year loss premium. Furthermore, the turnover tax limit will be increased from € 22 000 to € 30 000, plus red tape reduction, plus additional financing aid. So this is a package that can be seen, a package that will undoubtedly bring another growth boost for small and medium-sized enterprises and thus for jobs in our country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I have said that Professor Felder and the IHS have calculated a discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises for this period of the last six years of 18 billion Schilling. This is the consistent continuation of a policy with which we have, for example, reduced the income tax rate for small and medium-sized enterprises, just as for all the others concerned, and also lowered the corporate tax for the many small companies. We also have the 13th. VAT prepayment abolished – that is, a consistent policy for small and medium-sized enterprises! I am pleased that we have also been able to anchor this as a new priority at European level by our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. Our EU Presidency has also recognised the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for growth and employment in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I talked about it, it was long, difficult negotiations between the Ministry of Finance, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and Parliament. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, especially those young people, because I really like to do so. Ladies in the department, who fight very consistently and very hard for their views, as it has power women in itself, who do not make it easy for us. But in the end, this common procedure always leads to consensus. I very much hope that in the next few hours, including the Anti-Fraud Act, we will have similar agreements. Thank you very much to the ladies in the department: Mrs Mag. Billinger, Mrs. Mag. Greeds and also Mrs. Mag. Bishop of the State Secretariat. Thank you very much, you are incredibly consistent, incredibly hard! We don't have it easy with you, but in the end we always reach a consensus on growth and employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5737	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 6 minutes speaking time; this is the welcome time, the legal speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5758	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My previous speaker said that much has been negotiated and discussed, so there is no reason for great Polish exchange exercises. I will, however, address the various measures and, nevertheless, work out the different viewpoints on this occasion. First of all, however, a brief overview of the gross trains of the recent years' conflicts with the field of enterprise policy or fiscal support in the business sector. We may even differ in a few assessments from the Social Democrats. Indeed, the so-called major tax reform has brought in an area in which the companies have had an efficient share of lucrative tax measures. You yourself count that with a billion €, plus minus. The only question is whether there is such a safe estimate – I have to put it in place – with the estimates. I admit, this is a difficult thing. When you reduce the tax rate, you may get a picture when you go from 34 to 25 percent, much more difficult of course to capture the dimension of so-called group taxation at all. Mr Finanzminister, in the explanations, your house has only estimated the tax losses in this title at €100 million. That seems to us to be far too low. In many discussions, including in your home, experts have occurred who, on the basis of the rules taken here in the House, accept much higher tax outages from this title. Anyway, the bandwidth goes from € 100 million to € 1 billion. It can't be reconstructed so easily for us either. However, the matter is that this measure should in any case be evaluated. We Greens believe that group taxation, as far as complexity is concerned, if it contributes to the proper presentation of company partnerships within Austria, is in fact an improvement towards the old tax system, even a reasonable step. As far as the EU level is concerned, I believe that we are well advised to see how legal development is there. We are certainly one step ahead of the other states, and in this respect the term “valuation” really fits from my point of view. Let's see how this affects and what's going on there! However, with regard to the recovery of losses from all possible parts of the earth, we are skeptical, especially since the financial office has almost always had to go beyond the statements made by the corporations, because the problem exists that the rules need to be transferred to Austrian law, for example, Kazakhstan or Venezuela, and are not at all recognizable as to how to get under control. This is what all large-scale auditors who trust to judge it accordingly with their opinions. What do I say to finish this? – There has been a measure here that goes far beyond € 1 billion from the dimension. And now you praise a package here, Mr. Col. stupid, about which has actually been baffled and negotiated for a long time – that is right – which has a dimension of € 200 million – that is not so little – but you have to see, of course, how the weightings are going on. At this point, I wanted to figure out the difference that it is our impression that the whole thing has a certain slant. Nevertheless, we agree on these areas because the measures are going in the right direction. Let us now come to the proposal on revenue-expenditure calculators! This concerns not only SMEs in general, but specifically this group. As far as the improvement in loss is concerned, you know that we have improved this together in the Committee. We have come from the start-up losses to a general three-year loss settlement scheme that we wish would have been seven years. We would, of course, get even deeper into the treasure. We have no problem at all with the VAT system, which is reasonable. We are going exactly as far as the EU rules, with the corresponding exceptions, allow us to go up. A wormhead drop is in any case, so that I can comment on it, the regulation for the formation of reserves. One has to say – Mr Mitterlehner sees this, I do not think much differently – that it is rather a kind of investment advantage, because 10 percent of the profits should be invested in the same year, if he should. We are now saying that this is, in principle, a double "sacred" solution, because on the one hand, the question is whether this is in principle the right thing for the creation of reserves, and on the other hand, if it is necessary to invest again in the year in which this is happening, for several reasons it is not even the best for economic optimization. [[Abg. Neudeck: You didn't read the law!]] - Of course! [[Abg. Neudeck: No!]] As a result, the problem arises again that there is, at the end of the day, a tax-advanced savings, because if the scheme ends again as with the profits that have not been recovered – that is my next point I wanted to address in connection with small and medium-sized enterprises – if, at the end of the day, profit can be increased tax-freely, even though profits would have actually been higher, then this is a premium-favoured entrepreneurship saving. You have already created this problem at the first stage of the tax reform with the regulation of non-compulsory profits. Nothing against this regulation, but that at the end there is the possibility of increasing tax-free resolution, which leads to completely different intentions than the legislator actually wanted or than you have justified. The Federal Minister for Finance is respectful... [[Abg. Neudeck: Why? ... tax-free! At least read the law!]] What is it? I'm sorry, we debated this in committee. Perhaps this is all very difficult again, but neither is the Secretary of State and the Federal Minister able to answer the question of how high the tax losses from the title of profits not taken are when they are removed. We booked 400 million € at the time. How much of what will be left of what will simply be removed tax-free after the deadline has expired can not be answered. We simply lack understanding for this. [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Kogler, that is normal to tax!]] Excuse me, you accuse me I wouldn't have read this. You obviously don't know what you've been applying as a law for years, day after day. We discuss this regularly. I'm really amazed. [[Abg. Neudeck: Me too! In the Court of Auditors you make it better!]] In any case, it is from our point of view that we could have done this in much more straighter ways. In conclusion, I will list the measures. This would be the introduction of a real corporate reserve, which can be juggling up and down a few years in the company, precisely following the idea that more than in others, there are different profits or earnings in the annual rhythm, especially in the companies that configure as revenue-expenditure calculators. This also causes the biggest problems there, which is why our idea with the seven-year period for loss talks. And in the end – with all this, wonderful – we believe that investment-enhancing measures in this area are needed in the future. [[Abg. Head: Agreed!]] I know there are differences. But as long as we do not think otherwise, the degressive depreciation possibilities are quite an option. I don't know why you're so locked up with this. In the long term, it is not even to be expected that special tax outages will have to occur. It is only that in uncertain stages of calculation – in this case the revenue-expenditure calculators, otherwise the entrepreneurs themselves – they have an incentive to invest, however, because of the fact that the time is closer, of course, with a greater discount value in winning analysis. This is the great advantage of a degressive approach. Mr Finanzminister, why this is called ‘anachronistic’, you have the opportunity to address it here. In any case, we would have seen this as a possibility of entry into the smaller farms. Finally, something that goes in this direction again, namely the issues of low-valued goods. The whole thing is, if you pull up the border accordingly, an instrument that beats several flies with a flap. It is a red tape simplification in the company and in the financial sector. One can also make it optional, so that the farms could distribute it again if they want. But finally, it is an investment promotion in the sense of the previously said one. We are confident that this package of summa would amount to €300 to 350 million. We are confident that first of all we will value quantitatively and finance the second thing, because if you think about the slight withdrawals in one or other exaggerating measure – which is why I have been with it for so long before. That's why we think this is a better package. However, this is essentially also going in the right direction, which is why we agree. For what we propose, we shall then also put forward a motion for a resolution, perhaps you agree with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5863	Mr Kogler, you should explain the motion for a resolution at the heart of the matter. [[Abg. Sburny: He did!]] Please, Mrs Sburny, the wording: I shall put forward the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members, which has the following key points, is reasonable.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5890	Mr President, you are quite right. However, my intention was to announce a motion for a resolution, which implies that the following speakers of my group will bring them in. If I've used the wrong time, I'm sorry. I believe that Mrs Sburny will put forward this motion for a resolution, and I have now referred to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5920	The information I had was another one, but I'm all right. Mr Bucher is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5944	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to Mr Matznetter, one of the accusations is that, in the elections to the Chamber of Commerce and in general elections, the SPÖ is also trying to do something for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In fact, however, it is true that you have not known from SPÖ for many decades – I am a small business owner myself – what potential lies within the small medium-sized economy. You never did anything for us! You have never taken us into account in your tax measures! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] You dragged us where you could. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] They have put all the money in national hands, they have reduced the money and destroyed 40,000 jobs. This is your “economic competence”. You can't deny that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] If you suddenly discover SMEs as a favorite of your economic policy, then this is extremely unscrupulous, because your actions you are presenting to us are far from up-to-date. They come from the moth chest of your SPÖ policy in the seventies and eighties. You should get this up to date. This Federal Government has shown you from the year 2000 that the small and medium-sized economy is the backbone of the Austrian economy and is really a concern What has been done here! The Minister of Finance has even worked on the FPÖ's economic programme in this club, namely in the 1990s, and has implemented a number of points. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What was that?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Don't remind him of the flat tax!]] Look at: the tax reform first stage, second stage, not derived profits with half the tax rate, withdrawal of the 13. VAT prepayment! Half of the taxpayers in Austria pay no taxes at all. Furthermore, the economic package 1 and 2 as well as the growth and stability pact should be mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! These are milestones of Austrian economic policy that you have never placed in your responsibilities! [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] All the finance ministers in recent years have never agreed to solve these problems really. Now, in the pre-election period, come here at once and say that's also a concern for us. You're still riding around on a medium-sized package that we've chained, where we've negotiated very constructively with you and with the Ministry of Finance. On this occasion I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance once again for having responded to our proposals because we have said that the small and medium-sized economy now urgently needs a discharge. What we are discussing today is not a repair, but it is a complete process of our financial policy, as we think it is and as it is good for the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Mr Matznetter, what you are constantly demanding is not feasible, is not forward-looking, but is anachronistic. You should take note of this. So follow our path! This is the right way for Austria, the right way for the Austrian medium-sized economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6038	The next speaker is Mr Gorbach. He's got 10 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6059	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Let me start with a very basic statement on this important issue today, namely the fact that the one who makes economic policy makes a good policy. And that speaks for this government. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] These relief measures for small and medium-sized enterprises are another step in this reform policy, another economic-friendly step. Mr Matznetter, as you said earlier that this was a repair and took a year and a half until it was decided that it was necessary to repair it, I can tell you: This is not a repair, but it is the continuation of an economic-friendly and good reform policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is a complement, which is a continuation of this policy. I'll tell you why. The tax reform 2004/2005, which you voted against – not yet explainable to me today, but that is what you have to live with – has already brought €1.3 billion of relief to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The entire population rejects!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We didn't notice!]] This is understandable if I say to you the following: the tax reform on income tax with a volume of approximately €70 million, the preferential tax on non-reduced profits with approximately €290 million of discharge, the corporate tax reduction for SMEs with approximately €330 million of redundancies. Research funding and, in particular, the promotion of order research with around € 130 million volume of discharge should also be mentioned. In addition, we have simplified administrative procedures, which is particularly important for business start-ups. I would like to remind you of the novel of the 2002 Industrial Regulation, which introduced the one-stop shop principle for business start-ups. I would remind you of the 2005 amendment to the trade regulation, which brought a procedural acceleration for approval procedures for new installations. This is particularly important for SMEs. The present package will again provide a relief for SMEs, with a volume of €200 million, which will do well in addition to the measures already mentioned, and will do well for our economy, as it will continue to strengthen, the competitiveness of Austria will do well so so that we can continue to move forward. We are doing this quite impressively in international competition lately; I am still coming back to it. Let me add the new additional measures and explain them. The first measure is the introduction of an exemption for profits for revenue-expenditure calculators, i.e. for the smallest of the small ones, if you want to do so. This has always been an important matter for us from the BZÖ. 10 percent of the profits are tax-free if they are invested in the company. This is an incentive to invest and will help to improve the capital base. That's very important, how you'll be sure to admit. The second point for revenue-expenditure calculator is the extension of the deductibility of start-up losses from three to seven years. This smooths the tax burden, which reduces the tax burden especially for young entrepreneurs we have in mind here. [[Abg. Gradual: What does the tax burden mean “smooth ”?]] The next measure is the increase in the small business limit in the VAT duty from € 22 000 to € 30 000. That too, as I believe, is a very important discharge. We also want to promote an annual new credit volume for SMEs in the order of €10 million by means of a small credit initiative – up to €25 000 – based on the European support programmes. Additional measures concern increasing the liability ratios for operating funds loans – the expansion of the project volume from € 1 million to € 2 million so far – the implementation of an innovation protection programme, which in turn is important for the purposes of the patent marketing programmes, especially with countries where SMEs have so far had difficulty, such as India and China. Another measure is the reduction of administrative burden, the red tape costs in accordance with the Dutch standard cost model, which is intended to save about €2 billion on Austria. – So all things that can be subsumed under terms such as tax relief, improved support situation, administrative reduction, red tape, especially for SMEs. If one knows that a calculation indicates that about 300,000 companies are affected, then one knows that this also has a certain degree of confidence in what the government is presenting here. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a dangerous threat to this government!]] When it comes to the effects of the previous tax and economic policy, I am very happy to see the latest results of the opinion, namely the Market Institute of 19. April 2006, according to which only 3 percent of Austrian companies consider their economic situation to be not at all good, whereas 36 percent say that it is very good or good. This is also a high value internationally compared. This federal government with its economic-friendly policy makes such results possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, this cannot be discussed away! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point; Business start-ups will also be important to you: In 2005 we had a new record of new business start-ups due to the economic-friendly conditions: In fact, it was 33 600, and this is one third more start-up than we had in 2000, for example. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, this is a reality that you simply cannot pass by! In the international ranking of a Lausanne Institute, which you know and where 60 regions are compared worldwide, Austria is finally again from the excellent 17th to the 13th. Place pushed forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And where was it before?]] Mr Matznetter, Austria – and this makes me a little proud – has not only improved and is from 17 to 13 years old. Last year, however, countries such as Sweden, the Netherlands and Bavaria have also become obsolete. We know that these are countries that have also been and are quite skilled on the road, only: Austria is better on the road thanks to an economic-friendly policy, a good policy, and I hope that will remain so.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6197	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6218	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the government bank behind me you see the godfather of an ÖIAG lie. [[Abg. Neudeck: What?]] An OIAG lie! – Mr Minister, I ask you from here: Is someone debt-free if he has 457 million euros in liabilities in the balance sheet – that is over 6.3 billion schilling? Last year you made a lot of money a sintering advertising campaign to spread this business and political untruth: “Congratulations! From today you are debt-free!" [[The speaker holds up a newspaper show.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But that was not meant for the ÖGB!]] You have also added a footnote to it, according to which you can also create it bilaterally at the end of the year. But if you look at the 2005 balance sheet, you see that is not the case. [[Abg. Neudeck: So, after the speech I understand the Styrian SPÖ!]] There, using tax money, is lied that the beams bend! You have deliberately misled the Austrian people with tax money, Mr Minister of Finance, and for this you bear the political responsibility, Mr Grasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to finance the ÖIAG dividends of € 550 million, you have commissioned the ÖIAG institutions to issue a syndicate exchange or change bond. I have taken this into account, and you can even read it in the “Austrian Yearbook for Politics”, which Mr President Khol has published: It has been scientifically proven that this changeover has cost 550 million €, so in two years almost as expensive as the entire bond. Mr. Federal Minister, this is also an insanity in the business sector! Where's the care of an ordinary merchant? Remember what you did to the Austrians here! [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: You can't judge that!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We saw your care at the ARBÖ, at the BAWAG, at the ÖGB!]] The following is the next financial policy ‘Bravour’: The Minister of Finance will use this law to access dividends which are not yet achieved! You have to imagine how bad the situation must be! It is almost an advance scheme: He approaches something that has not yet been achieved. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, I do believe you do! – Who today is addressing such things? One to whom it is financially “hundsmarod, ” or one who is possessed of greed of money, who no longer believes in the future of the company. This makes a finance minister in need of money to stop budget holes. [[Abg. Neudeck: Have you spent your years in the Supervisory Board of BAWAG?]] I would like to remind you: Six years ago, you started with the zero deficit target. From this zero deficit there is far and wide nothing to be seen, Mr Minister, and you also bear political responsibility for that. Last point: The whole thing can be summarized this way: Except fees, high consulting costs were nothing! The zero deficit is far and wide not in sight. You have indeed demonstrated your economic competence: You don't have one. We will therefore not agree to this government's advance approach for the ÖIAG dividends either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6348	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. His welcome time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6369	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What can be said wrong in three minutes is quite remarkable, Mr Moser. By the way, I know an institution in your area that has drawn a special dividend from a bank that has not been achieved afterwards. And that's actually the stupidest thing there can be. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In this context, I have to say that I almost have the impression that you would be pleased if the ÖIAG were still in an economically bad situation, as was the case about six years ago, where ÖIAG actually had 6 billion euros in debt. Now it has been noted from the political point of view that the ÖIAG has been happily renovated, and I do not understand why you do not understand this: It was a wrong policy before, and it has been made a right policy under this government. I'm sorry you didn't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Everything is scorched!]] Secondly, Mr Matznetter also mentioned: To talk about the failure and then to refer to the jobs in relation to government policy on small and medium-sized enterprises, I think this is quite strange. Mr President, in recent years there has been a reduction in the number of jobs rather than a reduction in the number of jobs, because of 'decreased productivity', as Mr Kramer of the Wifo referred to at the time, and the small and medium-sized enterprises have secured jobs. And they have secured them because the government has set the right framework. We have always done the right SME policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You, Mr Matznetter, and your colleagues have actually recognized this as a topic only when other issues have been lost to you, and you now see it as a tactical element. It's your business, but you won't get credibility with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] What I do not think is that we are now pretending that there was no past in the framework, in the support measures. The €1.3 billion in recent years has already been mentioned in this context. It must, of course, be said that on the other hand, the tax burden was essentially borne by small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is true that there has been a great relief here in recent years, including through support measures such as the “Blum premium”, with which we have contributed to the fact that apprenticeship training is indeed assured that youth employment is at a level that hardly anyone can imitate us all over Europe. If I look at what we are doing here with this decision-making, I have to say that is a big day for small and medium-sized enterprises. And that the whole thing is right, you also see that today, as far as I see it, all the parties agree. This was sometimes not the case with maybe even larger packages – now it is. This tax reform is very important for companies, at a time that is not so bad in itself. Therefore, of course, it is not so easy to extend the volume generously, for otherwise there will be some kind of procyclic development. In times of rising economic growth, it could be too difficult to make too much available. However, I must say that from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises, it can almost never be too much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] As far as the measures are concerned, I have to tell you – and you see that the government has done the right thing: What we are doing in the field of investment benefit is nothing more than the redemption of the promise that there will also be equality for revenue-expenditure calculators as far as the benefit of non-profits is concerned. And this equality is not so simple at all. Why is this equality not so simple? Because as a revenue-expenditure calculator he has no balance to draw up, and because he has the right balance to find between what he needs to record and what he gets in support, I think is very important. It is a balanced measure. In this context, we also need to say something about the investment aid you are referring to, the amount free, the increase premium. The amount of the allowance is probably not EU-compliant. The increase premium has resulted in many companies having re-founded only because of the reason to benefit from the premium, and in reality a lot of money has flown abroad for aircraft purchases and car purchases. We have thus promoted value creation abroad and not domestically. That is why the correction was necessary, I think it is right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] What Mr Vice-Chancellor Gorbach said about the loss talks – I believe that this was still related to the old paper – is not quite right, because we have not expanded the deductibility of start-up losses to seven years, but, even better, also one. Merit of the Federal Government – we have provided for the possibility of losses for all for a period of three years. This offers a better control for all companies to deal with profits accordingly, and not only for business founders. So the government has increased and surpassed itself here – thank you for that. What has not been mentioned and what I see particularly positive is the initiative on micro-credit, which makes micro-credit cheaper and allows for up to €25 000. Of the companies represented by the Chamber of Commerce, more than half are one-person companies, i.e. micro-enterprises, and for these, provision of risk capital is an important measure. Therefore, this package is a signal to small and medium-sized enterprises, especially at the right time, without overburdening the budget and without losing the balance to economic development, which has actually taken a positive path. All in all: very positive, and the most positive is that everyone agrees here. I hope that even in sales, the impression does not arise again that this is actually only a small package, as it is sometimes said by the left hand side. In reality, this is a proper package, and the other measures will probably be continued in due course.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6454	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6475	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, I start with the happy one, if there is something pleasing. In that case, it is gratifying that there is a small step that will help small businesses. However, I've always been impressed by your presentation. You have told us exactly three years now that this tax advantage of non-profit also helps the very small and micro-enterprises, and now you are practically consenting to it, you yourself have said that there is equality between the revenue-expenditure calculators as regards the tax-advanced profits. That is, you yourself say, so far, this measure has not brought them anything. That's what we've been saying for three years – well, that you've finally come up with! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In addition: There can be no question of equality at all – from the volume alone – because the tax advantage of the profits not collected had, according to your data, about € 400 million. On the other hand, what you are presenting now has a volume of not even €200 million as a whole package. That is to say, this part can only be a fraction for 300 000 of revenue-expenditure calculators on this issue. This means that there is no question of equality at all here. In addition to this, one can also argue whether this measure is really useful in this way for the business sector. Firstly, you can only invest in the years in which you make at least one profit of €10 000 and not, for example, in loss years, and secondly, there are enough entrepreneurs who do not make such profits at all, or This is not the year when investment in investment assets will take place. So again, only a very small part of this measure is concerned. Not even there you managed to really capture everyone now, but after all, it's a few more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is to say, it is a small step, but it is still far too little for us, and I am now doing what my colleague Kogler did not succeed in bringing forward a motion for a resolution, but he has essentially explained this motion for a resolution in his cornerstones. It is about the temporarily favoured “refund” for the revenue-expenditure calculators as an approximate equivalent to this tax advantage of non-compulsory profits. This is a loss premium limited to seven years, in addition to the early 30 percent depreciation in the purchase or manufacture of exploitable fixed assets already in the first year, to increase the limit for low-value goods from 400 to 1,500 €, in order to facilitate the employment of the first employee/employee. In addition, it is also about creating a positive framework for this increasing number of one-person companies and micro-enterprises. In particular, there is a very large group, namely women, because of the fact that women in these 300,000 micro-enterprises, one-person companies, make up a large proportion, a much larger proportion of women. The micro-enterprises account for about 70 percent. There is therefore a need for special measures to support women who are founders. In this context, we have some very concrete proposals, such as a targeted support for founders, the establishment of an entrepreneurship fund, €100 million for start-up loans, but also a longer consultation phase. There is probably a starting advice for founders, but experience shows that sometimes the consultation should extend over a much longer period, because the initial advice is not enough to bring the company well over the first three years. That means that very concrete measures are needed here too. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Last but not least, we want to link economic promotion to women's promotion in businesses. There is a model here that the Greens have developed with Brigid Weinzinger, and we wish that economic promotion be given very specifically where businesses also promote women in the farm, and that this will be a very important point in economic promotion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion, the SPÖ's motion for a resolution: There are, of course, many points in this motion for a resolution that we want to support, but also two essential points that we cannot support: The one is the increase of the pendler's fee and, above all, of the kilometers' money. From our point of view, it is mainly a matter of increasing the concentration of public transport and not putting everything on the road. The second point is that from the SPÖ you want a reduction of wage or income between €2,000 and €4,000, whereas from our point of view it is primarily important to help those who are at the bottom of the income level, so something like a negative tax, a very concrete amount to be paid out to those who can no longer benefit from tax relief, because they no longer pay tax because they simply earn so little. For these reasons, we will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6566	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Sburny is sufficiently supported, has been explained in his key points, and I leave him in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure; it shall be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6655	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6676	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if it's not bad, then it's always too little, then 200 million euros are too little, it should be more. We are trying to scandalize Mr Moser's way of doing so. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: This is also a scandal!]] It is a virtual scandalization that takes place here. I note that, at least in the last few weeks, everything in the field of politics has always been covered by a scandal, and that is the scandal of SPÖ, ÖGB and BAWAG, ladies and gentlemen. But now I want to deliberately turn to a positive policy area, namely the law that we are going to adopt today. If Mr Matznetter says that this is a repair policy and Mr Vice-Chancellor Gorbach disagrees with it, I think we should not have the discussion about it. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: To make a mini repair!]] I can also live by the fact that it is a repair policy, especially when I think about the time before 2000, because from this time on there was a lot to be repaired for the current Federal Government: the mistakes, the failure and the economic inability of the then intergovernmental Social Democratic Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is an understanding within the European Union to promote small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the employment and growth strategy. The employment rate of self-employed workers in the European Union is about 70 percent, and the importance of this support for growth and employment is well known in the context of the promotion of SMEs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] This is particularly evident in Austria, since this Federal Government has, in its awareness of the importance of sustainable economic growth and employment from the start of its government activity in 2000 onwards, geared towards its policies: It is important to strengthen entrepreneurship, promote the implementation of innovative ideas in the framework of entrepreneurship. Accordingly, this policy should be appreciated. The resulting measures – ladies and gentlemen, you know –: a tax reform – the largest tax reform of the Second Republic – business packages, packages for growth and employment, a correspondingly increased research funding, which now accounts for around 2.5 percent of GDP, an apprenticeship offensive, a business start-up offensive, a chamber reform with savings of 30 percent in chamber contributions, the abolition of the 13. VAT prepayment, the simplification of administrative procedures and a reduction in the duration of the procedure – to mention here some of the measures already implemented and implemented. In all these measures – and this is particularly important because the demand for more is constantly being raised – there was and is one that is very, very essential, namely the stability of state finances, public finances, which, of course, cannot be threatened by all these measures. It is therefore a very focused procedure, as I am saying. The effects are positive, the confidence of the companies increases. The 2006 SME Funding Act now strengthens the over 300 000 revenue-expenditure calculator in Austria. Profits of a maximum of 10 percent will be exempt from the tax if an investment in favoured assets takes place. The result is positive: This share remains tax-free, the entrepreneurs have more money, there is an incentive to invest. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The effectiveness of this measure to be adopted today will be given in 2007. It is another important, correct, consistent step towards further growth, further employment growth, for further improvement of the competitive situation in a global environment. Let me conclude by saying: Economic kindness, ladies and gentlemen, pays off!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6754	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6776	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This federal government stands for expropriation. We can claim for ourselves that, with the great tax reform in 2004/2005, we really made a mistake in Austrian tax policy in so far as we had seen over decades that Austria was on the road towards a Scandinavian model, so like the Finns, like the Sweden, like the Danes higher tax rates and tax quotas – from your point of view; from my point of view: unfortunately God! – to have what we said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer]] We want to achieve a significant reduction in the tax burden in Austria! We did this with the tax reform. It is quite right what the Vice-Chancellor has done, namely that we have already achieved a very substantial relief from small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria through this tax reform. I may refer to the Institute for Higher Studies, which has examined – as an objective third party outside – the following: What have these measures actually brought to small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria? And the number mentioned was €1.3 billion in discharge, among other things through the tax reform with the two stages 2004 and 2005, €1.3 billion in discharge for our small and medium-sized enterprises! Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to calculate of these €1.3 billion the investment increase premium, which is also included in it and which at the time had an effect of just over €300 million, a sustainable relief effect for small and medium-sized enterprises of about € 1 billion remains – simply because we said: Small and medium-sized enterprises are the pillars of our economy! I think we all know that, and that should not only be a question of Sunday's speeches, it should be a question of practical political implementation, because we know: We need this relief so that these companies can continue to be the focus on employment in terms of value added as regards investment and tax benefits in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, since 2000, we have set out very specific measures. I can say that I come from such a small and medium-sized business, therefore it is also a question of honest conviction and also a question of knowing how to operate in such a smaller enterprise, which problems exist in such a company – and I am glad that some of you here laugh a little because they obviously have special experience in small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Sburny: Which one is that?]] [[Abg. Oils: Which one? The Ministry of Finance?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The Ministry of Finance, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Oil: MAGNA?]] No, not only in the MAGNA, but there is, as you may have heard, a family business of the Grasser family, in which I have also worked a lot – unlike you, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Ministry of Finance?]] I don't know where you come from, but from a small and medium-sized company, certainly not! [[Mrs Oellinger and Mr Sburny:]] [[Abg. Sburny: Be careful! It's been a while since you misestimated the oillinger! You have a wrong picture of the oilman!]] I would therefore like to say to you: What we are doing here is a matter of conviction because we know that small and medium-sized enterprises need this support so that they can continue to make contributions to employment, to growth, to investment and thus also to tax benefits. That is why it was a question of conviction that the Federal Chancellor, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour and my person, including as far as European policy is concerned, also said in the year in which we are allowed to hold the Presidency: We also want to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises at European level! I can say that we succeeded at the Spring European Union Summit at the European Council on 23/24. This year, a number of points were put in place for small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of a small and medium-sized enterprises package at European level. First point: We have negotiated with the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank will contribute to greater growth and employment and will provide loans and guarantees for research, development and technology on the one hand, but also small and medium-sized enterprises on the other. We reach an additional loan volume of €30 billion: for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, including trans-European networks. We have included in the conclusions of the European Council that we want to simplify new creations, that we want to remove the barriers that we want to give businesses an incentive to be entrepreneurial. And, of course, it is also necessary to say that the prerequisite for the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises is that customers buy products, and not so much that they have to go through bureaucratic procedures. The common objective, therefore, is to say in a one-stop-shop procedure in all our 25 Member States: It shall not be longer than one week until a holding can actually be established and its entrepreneurial activity can start. Third point raised: Better regulation. How do we achieve that we can significantly reduce the costs incurred by the interaction of the respective company with the public administration? I believe that we do not need to reinvent everything ourselves and re-invent it, but the Netherlands has a very, very good approach to implementation here, which has been calculated for the Netherlands, there are costs of €16 billion from the interaction of businesses with public administration. We have done this once on Austria and will also make an accurate calculation according to the model developed there. We estimate the cost of the thumbs in Austria at €8 billion, and we have said that as in the Netherlands, we want to reduce a quarter of these costs. That means: 2 billion € – as a target for the next legislative period – we create very concrete, practical cost reductions for the economy. If we have said in the tax reform: 3 billion € in relief, half for the economy, half for the workers, then that means that we have made ourselves in about the volume of tax reform, even a little more, of cost relief for the businesses: in the sense of dust, in the sense of debureaucratisation, in the sense of debureaucratisation – a cost reduction to strengthen companies in international competition and to safeguard jobs. This is a process which we have already set up in the Ministry of Finance, which is to be implemented independently and independently in all departments. And I believe that this is something that it is worth addressing in all consequence and also with all the efforts it entails, so that we can reduce the costs for businesses and thus also contribute to more growth, to increasing productivity and, of course, to employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Free – BZÖ]] On this package at European level, which I have now just outlined, this package has come which we have already discussed today, where we have said: Especially the little ones, the little ones of the little ones we want to relieve! We want to continue the consistent policy of this Federal Government for a discharge, for a better incentive to be entrepreneurial! . We address 300 000 revenue-expenditure calculators here. It is addressed the exemption for profits invested in the company. I think there is a double objective here: On the one hand, a profit share remains tax-free, allowing the company to have more capital and thus become more crisis-resistant, has more substance, also to invest this capital in the company. Mrs Sburny, I am not of your opinion that this is only a part of the businesses, because if you look at the definition contained in the law, which is investment assets, then you see that any revenue-expenditure calculator can, for example, invest in securities. [[Abg. Sburny: Nevertheless, he has to win 10 000 € first!]] That is, even if it goes into securities, this part of the profit remains tax-free, so that I am convinced that all companies that make a profit can take advantage of it without any problem and thus benefit from this tax advantage. The second point, which plays a role here, is of course also the incentive to say: We want to invest in the operation. We want investment in investment assets to be triggered, in turn, by growth and employment potentials. So I think it's a bad measure! It relieves €140 million of our small and medium-sized enterprises, the revenue-expenditure calculators. Another point is that we say: In the loss presentation we create equality with the accounting companies or we manage to achieve a three-year loss premium – today only for start-up losses, tomorrow for all losses – to achieve a corresponding predictability with the profits. This brings a relief to the economy of approximately €40 to 45 million. The increase of the small business line – a very important point in turn for the smallest businesses – in the sales tax sector: Today the limit is €22 000, now the legislative decision will amount to €30 000. This, in turn, means less costs, simplified management of the company – an important point! In addition, there are a number of initiatives that we are taking in the field of Austria's economic services, i.e. the central economic support institution of the Republic: from a micro-credit initiative to liability ratios for operating assets to more equity, for example through the double equity instrument. That is to say, an initiative that brings more than €200 million of additional relief to the smallest companies in Austria. 300 000 companies have been specifically addressed here. And I am simply convinced that, with the discharge of these companies, we will of course also relieve taxpayers, the taxpayers, that we will allow better products to be offered by these companies at a better price, and that this will help to make these entrepreneurs more successful, make the framework conditions more attractive for them and thus create jobs again! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Some very brief comments on some of the statements that have been made: Group taxation. – Mr Matznetter, if you say that €600 to €700 million, we will prove next year that this figure is simply wrong and therefore the financing proposals you are presenting – what do you, namely, a group ownership, and what can you finance? – not to be outnumbered to uniosity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] I may report to you on an examination of the Institute for Higher Studies: Professor Felder has estimated that it is up to € 170 million. Tax advisor Dr. Schellmann estimated: 130 to 140 million €. ==References====External links== March this year reported that it could cost 70 million more than the estimate of the BMF – our estimate was €100 million. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, next year, when we have the real data, we look at who is closer to it: the Ministry of Finance – we have estimated the cost at €100 million – or Mr Matznetter, who estimated it to be €600 to 700 million. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The matnetter not, no!]] Mr President, this is not serious what you are doing here. It's not serious counter-financing! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I can also tell you about the feedback we have – and this is particularly important for today's debate, because we want to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises: Ladies and gentlemen! We have received feedback from a number of - I say - medium-sized companies that they use this group tax to go to other countries, say, we have the border to go to export or to go to other countries and invest there, reduced because it was precisely these companies that said: If I can make a loss there and can't calculate it, I may not trust this step! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] All major companies – look at Look at the voest, look at others! – the advantages of group taxation over personal companies, about detours, about good, skilled constructions have already come to mind. Therefore, what we are now creating for the location on the possibility of group taxation, the profit-loss account, is important for the location, and it is also important for a large number of medium-sized companies in Austria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – I want to give this signal to you, and it will by far not cost what you say, but the costs will be quite close to this €100 million they are valued today. The last point: As far as the ÖIAG is concerned, Mr Moser, I can only say that you are so far from the reality with your imaginative remarks that I do not want to go into detail at all. I just want to say: We took over more than €6 billion in debt that you handed over to us! We found a situation where jobs were lost, company shares were sold to pay interest rates, and the debts were left. – That was your policy! We said: We're paying back the debts. And the ads that the ÖIAG has turned on, I stress absolutely, because it has succeeded in repaying €6.3 billion in debt, and today more than €6 billion of assets are available in the ÖIAG. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a greater success on this question at all! To that end, I think it is right to say, with regard to our privatisation policy and today's agenda item 2: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Matznetter]] We can also have dividends poured out. . I know why you have a problem with the question: because there have never been dividends in your time, because you have led the companies so that there has never been any profit, and losses are not known to be distributed to taxpayers. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We say: We take the profits of successful companies to invest in research and development, invest in education, finance a research bond. This is a wise policy for competitive companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7021	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hoscher in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7043	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! As it is for a tourist and leisure business speaker like me, I am a lot on the road: from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. I can only speak now for my industry – at least around 80,000 SMEs – but I have no accommodation for group taxation. This may also arise from a study of the IHS. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This is the problem with theoretical economic studies. I already believe that these studies describe a major relief of tax reform, for example through the half-rate taxation of untapped profits, for SMEs. At least in my industry, however, the discharge has not arrived. It is clear, I believe, that the Austrian economic structure is, in particular, characterised by these enterprises, the SMEs, and they are particularly important because they play a very high role in the development of employment. Around 70 percent of jobs are created by SMEs, and it is therefore very important that these companies represent a stabilising factor for the economy, especially in terms of regional compensation. That is why, of course, discharges are particularly important in this area. I do not hide that this law may also bring some relief. One can argue about how big or how small this will be. I would almost say in a change of words: It may be a big step for the government parties, but a small step for SMEs. – However, a small step forward is still better than two steps back, which we were otherwise used to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, there is a need to look at the field of investment and capital capital. Especially in tourism, this is very bad, as we know. I just remember that a large part of the enterprises with less than €1 million annual turnover even have a negative equity cover. That means, of course, that all the initiatives that are taken seriously here are welcome. I do not hide, as has been said, that this SME funding law seems to be a small step in this direction. We will, of course, agree. I would like to comment on one or two more details. In my opinion, it is useful to set a retention period of four years in the area of the favoured goods. At the same time, however, it seems very important to me, post-taxation will not occur automatically if the holdings are transferred. Especially in the case of SMEs, we have thousands of farm transfers in the coming years, so that this is also essential. So we think that this is a relatively small step. Nevertheless, we will agree. We have put forward a number of proposals to deal more fully with the economic situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. We have also tabled a request for this today. We would like to invite you to discuss this with us openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7103	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7124	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Under item 2 of the agenda, we also have to discuss the opposition of the Federal Council – Mr Moser has started this debate. We know – including Mr Moser, who has published this in a number of issues – that this state-of-the-art policy of the Federal Government is an excellent one. Looking back at the last 30 years before this turnover government, we see that this project has really been able to show itself over the last six years. With regard to advance or withdrawal of funds: I think it is quite legitimate for research and development to think about where revenue can be made available and where money can also be collected. This is an investment that comes back a hundred to a thousand times, Mr Bauer! I think it is the legitimate right of a Minister of Finance to think about it too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Let us take a look at the development of national policy as an example of the post. We now know that the post has a corresponding market position. We now know that the post is going to the stock exchange and that the sale has been going on for days. The post is first-class. In this way, we know that these companies, which we have “publicised”, will also prove the corresponding market maturity in the future. I think, despite the fall of the courses in recent days, the experts know that these “state-based” companies are very interesting for investment opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] A small drops of wormwood is that a small uncertainty, a slight risk in the sale and placement of BAWAG and P.S.K. products. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We know who is responsible for this politically – these are you, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! Your policy!]] Finally, it can be said that the market maturity of a company – I am convinced – can not only be linked, as it is always stated in the opposition of the Federal Council, to the abandonment and maintenance of postal services. On the example of Salzburg, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain this. – Mr Mainoni, the Secretary of State, may know. – To the 10,000 persons a month visit the post offices and claim postal services. 40 000 people visit the shopping malls. There you can see the double-beddedness of the Salzburg SPÖ. On the one hand, one speaks of the cave of the centre, on the other hand, of the impoverishment of rural structures, but in view of the shopping centres where 40 000 people go on a weekend, one forgets everything! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Your policy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The national policy, especially this federal government, and this package has market maturity. This is the future of this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7215	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7236	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am already a little surprised that controversy – almost with the same words – is being built up with regard to small, medium and large businesses, although each of us knows that we all need businesses, everyone in its function. We all know that a large company employs a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises and thus makes indirect exports possible. One should go away from these stereotypical speeches, because I really think it is very difficult to have meaningful debates at this level. I do not share the fears of Mr Grasser, Minister of State, regarding the Swedish or Scandinavian model, which said: We moved there or were once on the “Austrian Way. ” The Swedish or Scandinavian model is one that is very important in Europe. There is a good economic development there with less unemployment, a high research activity and also a better cut in the PISA study, to say the same. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is to be discussed. This does not mean that one has to make a copy of it, but it is clear that in this law, which has been announced very large as an SME funding law, in fact, only two mini-measures have been put in place, but which point in the right direction, which is why we will also give our consent. This law is an important improvement for the 300 000 revenue and expenditure calculators. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Neudeck.]] It should also be said that this is, of course, only the beginning. Therefore, our motion for a resolution must also be seen as an incentive to think more about how further improvements are being made. The'most interesting' argument I heard from Mr Mitterlehner, who meant that he could not agree to our motion for a resolution because, in some cases, the procyclical effect would be too great. So, this is really a thing that for small and medium-sized enterprises almost sounds like a kind of increase when the rejection of redundancies for SMEs is justified by the fear of procyclical effects. Mr Stumpfully refers to the €1.3 billion in redundancies that are repeatedly mentioned. We all know that these €1.3 billion are politically mentioned again and again, but in reality they have never arrived at small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I am saying this because the abolition of the pre-payment of turnover tax, the investment exemption of 1.1.2005 and others in reality did not in fact give rise to any relief,... [[Abg. Neudeck: BAWAG!]] – Mr President, you can make a hundred times these calls concerning the BAWAG! I would also like to say something else about the national industry, which is always being used. One cannot compare 1980 with today's situation. I know the time when the ÖVP heads of state expressed the very great request not to let the regions go down – such as the head of state Krainer from Styria – and to secure jobs. The whole Upper Steermark would have been quite different! Therefore, this comparison is not allowed, because anyone who is seriously comparing must find that it was the global steel crisis that put the Voest in trouble – not the management, not the quality of the work, but the general steel crisis. [[Abg. Neudeck: He could have done it well!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dernoscheg.]] The difference is that the state-owned industry in Austria could not compensate for losses from the steel crisis through federal subsidies, but had to cope with the borrowing of loans, while in other countries of Europe – as in France, Belgium, Germany and so on – everything was essentially offset by subsidies from the state budgets. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Dernoscheg.]] Those who do not take note of these differences, ladies and gentlemen, are actually pursuing a policy that does not lead to the future. I would like to have said that clearly to you once. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7307	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7328	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Bauer, if you are in the process of distorting history, I ask you: Where have you been all these years? [[Abg. Gradwelt: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Where were you at that time? Did you escape what happened at the post office? Did you escape the debts of the ÖBB that you gave to the ÖBB under your Minister of Finance, in your time of government, in the way that we still have to fight today? [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Talk about what you understand!]] Have you observed the success story of Telekom? The next success story will be the post! The SPÖ sees everything to one side anyway. Mr Moser, from the speaker's point of view, has argued as much one-dimensional as you have argued. You also need to see the success story of ÖIAG as a success! You know very well that ÖIAG has been put on good feet, has been successful and has thus also strengthened the entire capital market in Austria. But you don't want to recognize that. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The stock exchange has previously held a fair existence and can now be held internationally. The Vienna Stock Exchange Location has become a very successful location. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: A soap bubble because it's so great!]] – But this is not only the case in Vienna! This is international development, and you know that too! The ÖIAG has become – and this has become quite typical – a profitable equity company and has become a truly prosperous company from the red debt holding à la “consum”, à la ÖGB, which – you do not want to hear – has remained in Austrian hands and has allowed distributions alone to dividends of over €500 million over the last three years. We are taking the insistence decision here today – the decision that you have blocked. You have also blocked the under-annual allocation of research resources, you have blocked our entrepreneurs, you have blocked research policy. But that's yours, I think everything doesn't matter – essentially, you can reap political change. I would like to thank the Vice-Chancellor and the Secretary of State for the work done for research and development in all these last years is unique and unique: There has never been as much money for research in Austria as under this Federal Government, under this Vice-Cancellor and this Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7403	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7425	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Mrs Rossmann, one thing I would like to say once again – what Mr Bauer has described here – is that in Austria, the state-owned industry, which essentially represented the steel industry or the raw materials industry at that time, was not rehabilitated by the budget, but has been in debt over the long term and has been in debt by the state. The fact that you are now activating this by the government is that you owe only to those who then made this arrangement. These were, among other things, Finance Minister Lacina and his predecessors who have made sure that this money is not lost, which you have now activated through privatizations, through divestments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Okay, that's a historical fact. At that time, our political opponents accused us of treating the state industry worse than the private steelworks in Germany, which had the same financing problems due to this major steel crisis, which was present worldwide. However, I would also like to point out that, as a huge success, sales have been reduced to €6 billion in debt, that some of this debt reduction is now in the process of depreciation on the stock market. You can see that within a week, the Vienna Stock Exchange has lost €7.5 billion and will destroy values that are sufficient for giantomanic amounts. We really have to ask ourselves why the Minister of Finance has not said anything about this development on the stock exchanges today, because this is obviously a problem that is not home-made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller]] Just that it happens somewhere else is still no reason not to lead it as a topic, gentlemen. There you should really break your head, why the stock exchanges break in as permanently as they do at the moment. And I'll give you the right to: Mr Moser is then not right with his thesis on the values of our ÖIAG companies when the price development here in Vienna continues. In that sense, I still have to beat you. I think we have still done too little for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially for micro-enterprises. There's still a lot to do here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] - You're a big businessman, you're not meeting. Of course, we will not agree here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7480	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7501	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For this tax policy – and I think we can be sure – this federal government must not be ashamed – on the contrary, my Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! They did not agree to the tax reform, and we have implemented the largest tax reform in the Second Republic and we have now continued it on a continuous basis. I don't know what there is to be criticized all the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr Moser comes out of the SPÖ here and thinks that there are small and large enterprises, which should not be played out against each other, I wonder why this is always done by the SPÖ. They always try to play the big against the small businesses – and claim, among other things, that if we make the group tax for the larger, nothing remains for the smaller farms. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That's not true at all what you're saying, because the smaller companies get follow-up orders from the big ones! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Matznetter, you wanted to congratulate me on the committee and said that I, Tamandel, am unfortunately still too young to know the tax laws of the last 20 years. [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you open the secret?]] Here you are, Mr Matznetter: I may look younger than I really am, anyway: I can very much look back on 20 years of experience in tax policy and therefore say: If you do not want the minimum corporation tax from the SPÖ, I wonder why you have introduced the minimum corporation tax under a SP finance minister! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Look at the then Secretary of State.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But I think it is great that, in your opinion, a VP State Secretary had more weight than a SP Finance Minister at the time! They are obviously also innocent of the fact that in the tax reform law 1993 the investment reserve has been abolished and in the Structural Adjustment Act 1995 the investment exemption amount has been reduced from 20 to 9 percent! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: In the nineties there were SPÖ Finance Ministers and a SPÖ Federal Chancellor, you also had the financial gifts in hand at that time! Therefore: Your appearance, your policies for small and medium-sized enterprises really don't take you away! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oja...!]] We make a good policy for small and medium-sized enterprises – and do not forget that large businesses bring follow-up orders for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are therefore continually continuing this path. – No matter what you say about the SPÖ: They're just going back anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7615	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7637	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Tamandl, you said you did not know what to criticize. – Therefore: A small example, which also concerns many of you and which you always cry in your regions at home: the closure of more than 600 post offices, for example, and thus the removal of infrastructure in the rural regions.... – Mr Hornek, a moment still; I am not finished, let me finish this thought, then I will listen to you! [[Abg. Neudeck: fight first – and then think! You always do!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Hornek: The BAWAG...!]] As regards Mr Mainoni's statement, how many hundreds of millions have to go into research: The post had to provide these intermediate services so that the Minister of Finance can lead money into research with the law you have decided today – at the expense of the rural regions and the security of supply of the people living there! [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the ÖVP as well as from Freeman – BZÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is really not a policy for Austria's economic location! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a word about the remarks of the vice-president Gorbach, who, in the meantime, unfortunately, was advocating the government bank. [[Abg. Scheibner:... he's going to be Federal Chancellor now!]] Mr Gorbach said that what is to be decided today was not a repair law, against the remarks of Mr Hofmann, who also belongs to his group. [[Abg. Scheibner: Does the SPÖ vote against now?]] Deputy Chancellor Gorbach also said: Those who pursue an economic-friendly policy have a good policy! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this has probably been one of the last speeches of Mr Gorbach, perhaps even the farewell speech, because, Mr Scheibner, this policy for SMEs was bad. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's going to be Federal Chancellor now!]] According to the credit protection association, there have never been as many insolvencys as is the case right now; SMEs die away, so to speak, as far as the flies are concerned. [[Abg. Großruck: We have to do the renovation package for the BAWAG!]] [[Further calls to representatives of the ÖVP as well as of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] If Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach mentioned that this measure ‘smooths’ the tax burden, Mr. State Secretary Mainoni, your smoothing is likely to be more like a plate. Yes, this federal government has been “falling”, very, very many SMEs – and this is bad for Austria’s economic location!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7783	Next, Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7814	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would have liked to be more devoted to the SME package and the future, but I must say in advance: When Mr Matznetter speaks of a “repair legislation”, he is right. But it is also Mr Gorbach's right, Mr Gradwelt! Vice Chancellor Gorbach said we don't have to repair our policy, but we are now repairing – and that's why it's actually repair legislation – those policies you've made from SPÖ until 1999. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Call:We repair your tax reform]] Mr. Matznetter was first sitting in the back, in the last row... [[Call the SPÖ: In the former!]] In the last; okay, he's been coming! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He is moving more and more to the left!]] Now Mr Matznetter is Vice-President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – and now he is sitting a number further ahead, only: He's always on the left. I don't know if it's closer to the exit. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – From you, everything is right; you are perfectly right, Mr Matznetter, because no one is so far left. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] I have now looked at the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, for which, Mr Matznetter, then State Secretary, should have been firmly responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 1993!]] They said that at that time the financial policy of the then State Secretary – and now MEPs – was silently responsible. I do not know, Mr Matznetter, who your SP Finance Minister was unable to do: In any case, there were among the SP finance ministers Androsch, but also Edlinger the “Quizfragen”: How do you get a small asset under a red finance minister? – We have rethinked and could only give the answer: By having a great fortune before! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of the liberals – BZÖ and the ÖVP.]] What, ladies and gentlemen, did the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act bring? – New burdens for entrepreneurs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, listen to S’! The timetable does not begin with the year 2000! This is also according to Christ, but also to a socially democratically led government! [[Cheerfulness with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Again: The 1996 Structural Adjustment Act brought new burdens on companies: Rehabilitation profits are tax-free only in 1996 and 1997; tax payable from 1998 onwards. Re-establishment of rental interest payments: no longer possible. Loss deduction, sales profit, operating expenses. Investment-free amounts deleted! Dissolve provisions! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Last millennium!]] – Not “previous millennium”! [[New calls to the SPÖ as well as calls to the liberals – BZÖ.]] Mr Matznetter, under this financial policy, we are still suffering today from this debt policy. That's why we need to make repairs! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Flat-Tax...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Mr Matznetter, flat tax was and is an announcement, only: After the scrapping pile handed over by SP-led governments, it took a few rounds. In the third run, however, Minister of Finance Grasser will implement the flat tax, for which he has fought a lot already in the mid-1990s. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, I do not want to assure you, but: The case with the 13th. Sales tax date – which was introduced under a SPÖ government – we have rehabilitated. That's what we abolished. – Therefore, you have the right of SPÖ with the statement “repair law”. This SME package represents an economic and financial policy for the future of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. We think in the longer term, not just as you do of the SPÖ in the Chamber of Commerce or in the National Council elections! You will always discover SMEs from the SPÖ just before the elections! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I also believe that this package is just a first step. The “Luxembourg model” with VAT or VAT reductions, a package and a relief of small businesses is necessary in order to reduce the administrative burden both in the state and in businesses. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: We would have liked to take a bigger step, but with the shackles you set us up in the year 2000 so to speak, which you gave us with the BAWAG hold package, no bigger jumps were possible without – as you do – falling to the belly.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7989	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on... – Mr Jarolim, we are in the vote! [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Call the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Dr. Jarolim –: That's huge]] First of all, we are voting on the draft SME Funding Act 2006 in 1466 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, asked for a separate vote on Rule 1(1) and (2). First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. We shall vote separately on Article 1(1) and (2), as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, on the discharge of the middle class. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the promotion and discharge of one-person companies, revenue-expenditure calculators and micro-operators. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Financial Committee in 1465. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee shall submit the application, the original decision of the National Council of 2 December. March 2006 concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Legal Relations of Austrian Industrial Holding Stock Corporation and the Post and Telekom Participation Management Company, ÖIAG Law 2000. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This amendment was accepted. In this way, the National Council has, in accordance with Article 42(2). 4 Federal Constitutional Act repeats its original decision. [[12:53:28]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1357, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Society Fund Act 1996 (1464, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8079	Now we come to the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Jakob Auer, has been mentioned. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8112	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the same time also a warm greeting from the head of the Association of the Austrian Federal Fire Department, and here I may be Deputy President of the Landesbranddirektor Ing. [[towards gallery]] Manfred Seidl mentions the name and welcome you all to us! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are today adopting an amendment to the Civil Fund Act, which lays down the legal framework, which has been established in good discussions between the Federal Fire Department on the one hand and the Federal Minister for Finance on the other. However, in order to ensure that I know that this agreement will take place unanimously, the recognition of what the fire brigades really do is also expressed. There will be financing security, there will be planning and, ultimately, a multi-annual procurement programme will be possible. The fire brigades are grateful for this, but in reality we have to be grateful to the fire brigades that lead us every day to see that, in the face of difficult problems, in the face of disasters and in many areas of rescue and use, fire brigades give security in such a great way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] After all, looking at these priceless achievements is always very focused and mediatically presented when there are major disasters: For example, I only remember the flood in 2002 or the many snows last winter, further the flood disaster in Lower Austria, along the March communities. Such disasters are at the point of view, but that the challenge of thousands of auxiliary workers in this area is often quite enormous every day, and this is sometimes forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, what fire brigades do is huge, for example in the case of traffic accidents, in the case of dangerous goods transports, in the case of fires, what is required of knowledge and competence, precision and security of use, even in terms of speed and decision to do the right thing in the right order, if it is, for example, to store injuries, to release them and so on – and all of this, ladies and gentlemen, in leisure time! It is not possible to ask if something is happening on a Sunday or a holiday, because it is not asked what the weather conditions are, it is not asked whether they are day or night hours, but: Whenever necessary, fire brigades are reliable on the spot. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Two weeks ago I was able to hand over a new vehicle to the Sattledt fire brigade; Sattledt is a municipality with a population of 2,200 and is located at the intersection of West and Pyhrn motorways. The fire brigade commander of Sattledt reported that they already had 79 missions this year: Uses under the most difficult, under the most extreme conditions. Some do not know what enormous achievement these men and – more and more – women are doing! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] On the subject of motorways and international transport routes: Today, noise protection walls, housings, tunnels and so on are rightly demanded by the locals – yes, this is a great protection! – but under what difficult conditions use units have to struggle and to what extent more high-quality devices are needed, how unevenly difficult the recovery is, only a few know: precisely because of difficult access and so on and so on. Therefore, some construction can require urgent improvement measures in order to make it easier and faster to use. Finally, a great thank you to the responsible of the Federal Fire Department, thanks to the Zig thousands of members of the firearms! Our firearms are irreplaceable; they provide quick help and give us security! A “comfort” for all these difficult uses: The firemen are always at the forefront in a ranking of the professional groups. [[Abg. Broukal: Far from the politicians!]] We politicians would be pleased if we had only half of this recognition! Congratulations and a thank you once again to our fire brigades! I thank them for their great work and wish that this bill will be adopted unanimously today.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8183	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8204	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated representatives of the Bundesführerwehrverband and the Landführerverband Burgenland! [[towards gallery]] I agree fully with the statements made by my previous speaker, Mr Auer, with regard to the services provided by the voluntary fire brigades who provide volunteer assistants. And, Mr Auer: After these statements, I am almost convinced that you will certainly welcome the two motions for resolutions that I wish to make in the interests of the volunteers. – Since I have only a limited speaking time available, I will start reading these two requests immediately. First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a great relief for our voluntary organizations, especially with regard to the technical efforts put forward by Mr Auer. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of the well-known Sunday speeches, I assume that these two applications are now being adopted unanimously in the context of the debate on the present government template. I know, Mr Auer, your heart has been incorporated into these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8299	The motion for a resolution on the refund of VAT on firearms and charities in the event of the acquisition of new equipment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8381	The motion for a resolution on the exemption of service for volunteers in the event of disasters and compensation for service providers of voluntary disaster victims is also sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8455	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8476	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's regulation that increases and guarantees the funds for the volunteer fire brigades is good. In Austria, it is true that most of the disaster protection on the shoulders – in the truest sense of the word – rests the voluntary organizations. This is also useful because it would not be possible to keep a sufficient number of people ready to work in the long term, and then, if necessary, to have the appropriate personnel and equipment capacities available. But the state is saving itself a very large amount of money, and this should also be reflected in the support of these organisations, which provide our security and the protection of the population with voluntary capacity. There are, of course, still deficits. In the end, both in the equipment and in the staff, it is also a matter of principle whether policy conveys enough that it is a value in itself for the Austrian, for the Austrian part of the free time, to bring in part of the own resources for the service to the Community. And that's where we have problems! We have problems in ensuring the necessary volunteers not only with the voluntary firearms in the future, but also with the rescue organizations and ultimately also with the Austrian Federal Army, which is a co-guarantor for making quickly available and permanently available forces. In this sense, Mr Gradwelt, we all, of course, support the idea of ensuring that. It should not be the case as it happens in practice that, for example, participants in the volunteer fire brigades can go into service for the weekend, but most or most of them will be called back to work on Monday or Tuesday by their employers and then perhaps will have to help themselves with holiday days and so on – but most of them have already been used up with the exercises. This is not a professional crisis management, I say clearly! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Only, Mr Gradwelt: You have now tabled a motion for a resolution, but you know very well that there is already a motion for a resolution – I do not know if you agreed to it at the time – which we have put in here and also decided on. We have already called on the Federal Government to take action here! I also know that there are very, very intense discussions, debates and negotiations in this direction in the Federal Government, but there are also groups that – I say carefully – are reluctant in their implementation, for example in the implementation of the job guarantee or in the implementation of mandatory exemptions for this use. I think they're all interested in it. The economy also has an interest in dealing with disasters and in ensuring that, after disasters, the cleaning work is carried out accordingly, including in the enterprises. Therefore, everyone should also have an interest in contributing to giving volunteers the opportunity to do so. [[Abg. You only need to agree!]] Mr President, we do not have to agree with what has already been decided. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have, of course, decided to do so. We will also ensure that there is this support for the voluntary organizations, and I expressly say it: in the fire department, in the rescue organizations, but also for the volunteers, for example, in the militia of the Austrian federal army! There should not be any organization against the others, but each of these organizations is indispensable and necessary for the security of the country, and we must use something to that end. To conclude: I am glad that the Minister of Finance is here today. I remember – you won't be so happy to hear this: They once accused us of why we went back from 24 to 18. I admit that this was not an easy decision, but there was at the time the assurance of the Minister of Finance and the guarantee that at least much of the savings for disaster aid will be invested for purpose. [[Abg. Marizzi: Mr Scheibner, who costs aircraft...!]] Now nothing can be invested, because nothing has yet been paid. But you have made it clear that from next year the first rates will be due. That is why I assume that this, I believe, will be made available to the voluntary fire brigades, the Austrian federal army and rescue organizations for the performance of their tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8538	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8559	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Klubobmann Mr Scheibner, which has everything in one agenda item: Now we have to keep the interception hunters back because you do not want to accept the motion for a resolution of the Socialists! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why? It's about disasters!]] These are already pirouettes, which are less common around this time of day. But if you are already taking this up, it should always be in the protocol that there is indeed some questionable question in the calculations concerning the catchers and that there may indeed be some sort of disaster protection necessary here – that is, the one that protects us from this procurement disaster! [[Abg. Marizzi: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If I'm stuck in my earopax now, it's also disaster protection!]] However, you have to look at it: In that year 2002, when tragically the flood occurred, it has long been clear that to have the agreed price – not with Eurofighter, but within the government, and this honors perhaps even the Minister of Finance – never and never 24 interception hunters, at least not the type of Eurofighter. [[Abg. Marizzi:... Cessna purchased!]] That is why we took the disaster for granted and said: So, now we do two great things – first we sell this as help for the flood victims, and we go from 24 to 18! It was quite clear that with this violent redeo of Eurofighter procurement, you will never come to a purchase price of €2 billion at 24 pieces and never get a purchase price of €2 billion! However, you know, then still Minister of Defense, actually much better than I do – and that's why you smile like that. [[in the direction of the Abg. Disc]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I know exactly that's not what you're saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] In any case, however it was – we still hold it! On disaster aid as such or on the question – because this has actually become the subject of discussion – the social security of those who voluntarily provide corresponding services: I really cannot see why we do not agree with the requests for social democracy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because it's already decided!]] This part of the pirouette is not comprehensible. Only: In the matter itself, I must remind you of what this subject of the report is really about. [[Abg. Neudeck: You really have to do that after the speech!]] It is a question of better planning for the financial equipment of the firearms, because we are now plunging it; on the other hand, according to various other categories of revenue, there have been fluctuations. Okay, it's going to be socked, and on the occasion, there's a slight increase – no matter what. But I would also like to introduce something critical on the spot. This is also a question of how the federal states deal with the funding. Finally, everything is a huge contribution from federal funds; anyone who knows the Austrian financial constitution knows that the countries do not lift up a cent themselves, but in all possible matters firmly distribute the money of the federal government. This may be useful to many, many points in terms of disaster protection and so on. But we have repeatedly had cases where the national governments or individual national leaders have been allowed to celebrate that, through so-called needs assignments – because a little money, there a little money – money has been distributed to the communities somewhere; often not according to the most economically meaningful criteria! Sometimes it was based on the criterion: Where am I not yet an honorary citizen? – All of this has been done! There are transfers that obviously need to correlate with the fact that someone will become an honorary citizen somewhere afterwards. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We also know exactly what pointless projects are often promoted and that the money is missing in the back and front – for example, in the sensible equipment of fire brigades. There has also been some improvement in this area, and there are plans to be made here. In the past, it was also the case that there was no need to pay attention to: Which community takes over this part, which community takes over that part and the firearms located there? I can remember that in my area, too, a “competition” took place – under the feet of the geese – because it got a fire brigade, the other had to have it too!, and the national policy is often subjected to these attempts. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] All of this has gotten better. [[Abg. Neudeck: They all have red cars!]] It is also a duty – with all the support lust and all the praise and thanks we give here – to ensure that we are as efficient as possible in this area. Efficiency means sending the money where it is needed, and not where one is not yet an honorary citizen. I can tell you that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the end: Because all of this has improved, because it has actually improved in an comprehensible way, thanks also from our group to the voluntary organizations in themselves and to the fire brigades which are partly present, in particular! This is not a question, we do not need to talk about it at all. The task picture has also completely shifted: It is very much more to do with major accidents and similar. There's really the hat to pull, no question. It was again and again stressed by flood protection. You will not be surprised if, from a green point of view, I would like to say that, in the field of flood protection, we have led investments into the completely false channels for many years and at a very high level – in the truest sense of the word: into the wrong channels. We do far too little in the retention area; we always accelerate the water, and somewhere then jumps it over. Then we look again, because suddenly a dam doesn't hold somewhere and behind the plots lie much deeper – it's already so laid down – when the water level of the flood comes leading river. What happens when it breaks up, you can calculate anyway! It is therefore about conservation measures, and the best flood protection is, of course, climate protection. That's what it's going to do. You're not surprised. You should think that the “hundred - year ” floods now come by every two and a half years!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8718	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8739	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I was able to have a series of talks with the representatives of the Austrian fire brigades. Since the president of the Austrian Fire Department, Mr. Ing. Seidl, with his comrades here, I would like to take this opportunity to thank for the constructive and meaningful discussions. The aim was to provide better planning and security in the budget. The other side was that the fire brigades also took into account the possibilities of the Federal budget. This is therefore a wise, measured solution for both sides. I thank you for that. I think it is a very clear and clearly unanimous signal from the House – for which I also thank myself – for the fire brigades and the achievements of about 300,000 firemen and women in Austria, which is being delivered here today, a signal of appreciation for the great achievements that you and your comrades provide. In this way, I believe, we can be pleased today with a good joint decision for the fire brigades. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8776	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8797	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My esteemed representatives of the Bundeswehrverband! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Voluntary Fire Department It is a great pleasure for me to speak on this item on the agenda today. [[Congratulation and bravoring with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bauer]] I can only shake my head if I hear the philosophy of Mr Kogler on the subject of fire brigade. I want your worries! Do you know what our concerns are? [[Abg. Neudeck: No, not me! I don't want his!]] No, I don't want it either. Our concerns are: We need good people, men and women – we have them with us – we need time for training, and then we need the necessary technique. The most important thing is that we no longer have more technology than we create training and have no less technology than we really need in actual use. The very weakest argument is that anyone says: Because this fire brigade has it, the neighboring fire brigade has to get it. Most of the time they are located on the same motorway, usually they have a similar question, and technical development is likely to be similar for all. If one looks at our modern technology in the fire department and evaluates what that costs, and if, in comparison, one evaluates the time, the firemen and women use for practice and use, and puts it together in relation, then one knows that our system of volunteer fire brigades is a very cost-effective one. Today's decision also makes it possible to plan ahead. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In the case of us in Lower Austria, this decision, which will secure €90 million by 2008, will mean that we can increase the contribution to a CLF from €28 000 to €28 000 for the small communities that have to comply with the minimum equipment regulation. This is an important measure for us. If I now hear this strange request on VAT and fire brigade, I must say: We are very glad that we have a clear right of association, that we have cashiers who are familiar with it, and that we do not have VAT constructions for which we then need tax audits, for which we have the financial office in the fire brigade and for which we raise a large theatre with the fire brigades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would just like to remind colleagues from SPÖ what was necessary for a month-long tuition in order to stop their Minister of Finance Lacina that the luxury added value tax on command vehicles could be abolished. So: Stay under clean regulations! We are concerned that the fire brigade can use its capacities, its working time and its use to help people. Now I'm saying something: I am a resident of the municipality of Zwerndorf, and we have experienced the flood. We had hundreds of volunteer helpers and many firemen in the village. And if not so efficiently worked for us with valuable equipment of competent people, disregarding their health, it would have looked good on us! With us everything has been done for the best, and I would like to thank all the firemen, but also the federal army, the police, for the rescue units very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8855	Next, Mr Fauland. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8876	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If prevention is discussed out here, I must also point out that prevention also means taking swift action before floods by means of wise negotiations in terms of flood protection sites and not hindering such measures in the interest of certain groups. Unfortunately, it is often the case that in municipalities and municipalities it was very late for these reasons that construction measures could be taken, as the land prices offered for disposal did not match and other interests also played a role. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now let's talk to the fire brigades: It is a pleasure for me to be able to show on the part of the federal government that the fire brigade, especially the voluntary fire brigade, is also a matter of the federal government, since the countries are very happy to set up the crown when a vehicle is handed over, and also of the often with a raised pointing finger to Vienna, where the means remain. The decision today proves that it is very important to us that a contribution is also made by the federal government. A very important part of the fire department has not yet been addressed, namely the care of young people in the communities. In many communities the fire brigade has not only the protection mission, but also a very strong social significance. The children start to practice from a very small age, they measure themselves in competitions, in district championships, in national championships, and then, when they have reached the appropriate age, they really get into action. For this reason, it is not quite understandable to me why Mr Kogler has once again created this scale of conjugation and said that it is about palaces that build communities, and that communities are about the size of the extinguishing vehicle and whether there is a star on it or not. I can tell you from my own community: For the purchase of extinguishers, most of them are made by voluntary donations from residents. In the meantime only about a third of the public sector is being contributed. Most of the funds are spent by the municipalities, by the population. That's why I don't think it's very appropriate to say here that it's all about palace buildings. If a church builds a firehouse, that is its good right. Every community should have a firehouse, because without the volunteer fire brigades we would certainly not be able to master all the threats to the population or perform various assistance missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8918	Next, Mr Wöginger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8940	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! As an active fire brigade, it is my concern to comment briefly on this positive change in the Civil Fund Act. The fire brigades offer a well-organized operational organisation for the security of our population. It provides competent and rapid assistance to a sufficient extent in the various operations, as well as in cases of crisis and disaster. This change of law secures financial planning for fire brigades. By 2008, the Civil Protection Fund will provide €90 million annually for fire brigades from federal funds. In 2006, it was still €66.7 million. We thereby support fire brigades in their procurement and financing plans. Considering the Federal State of Upper Austria alone, where in the coming years more than 150 re- and new buildings of firehouses and the acquisition of about 170 operational vehicles are fixed or planned, this means a significant increase in planning safety. Upper Austria is spent in total of € 20 per head per year on fire brigades. This number also proves that the federal, state and local authorities are indispensable and worth the fire brigades and the associated public life. As a member of the Voluntary Council, I would like to respond briefly to the demand for a general right to benefit or benefit from benefits. The honorary office and voluntaryness are the support of our civil society, which we absolutely need in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why framework conditions have to be created – we agree – but this high willingness must be possible in the future. I only remember, as an example, the accident insurance already implemented in the event of a disaster. However, it is also important to mention in this context that no premature, unthinking changes should be made here, which could even become a disadvantage to the volunteers. Legal claims such as exemptions, remuneration by service providers and so on reduce and endanger the employment opportunities of volunteers, and we do not want to do so. In the last natural disasters, the interaction between volunteer helpers and their service providers has worked very well, and this should not be jeopardised by excessive demands, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In our view, good proposals and first possible steps would be: a kind of days in the event of a disaster, to prefer volunteers in municipalities and to reduce the cost of training such as diets and kilometers from volunteers. That would be our access to this matter. However, it is important – and finally, ladies and gentlemen, that this be negotiated on a broad basis with the countries and the social partners, because it is only possible to achieve a positive outcome in the sense of our volunteer volunteers. And that's what we want!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8992	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1357 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on the refund of VAT on firearms and charities in the event of the acquisition of new equipment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Gässner, colleagues and colleagues on the exemption of service for volunteers in the event of disasters and compensation for service providers of voluntary disaster workers. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. [[Calls by representatives of the SPÖ – towards representatives of the Fire Department at the gallery –: You have to remember this! Look at exactly who stayed there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before we left the 4th. I would like to take advantage of this item on the agenda, since we have now discussed the fire brigades, and report on the following: The media have just informed us that there is a big fire in Stockerau on a garbage dump where 200 firemen are in use. We wish them all to return home healthy after this commitment! [[General condolences.]] [[13:30:05]] 4. Point report of the Committee on Finance on motion 831/A (E) by Mrs Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Josef Bucher, Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the examination of fiscal measures to finance supranational tasks such as European Union own funding and development cooperation (1476, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9068	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. First, Mr. Dr. It's stupid to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9101	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we now discuss and debate on the financing of supranational tasks, such as EU funding or development cooperation, four-party applications, we must say: This proposal is undoubtedly an expression of a very positive discussion culture in the Financial Committee and also a result of the honest effort to come up with common solutions. We have had several informal discussions with the political group leaders of the Financial Committee and with the experts in development aid cooperation. I would like to thank the Committee's chairman for having this culture of dialogue between the leaders of the political groups, which, in time and time again, leads us to reach a consensusable solution in all opposing positions. In the specific matter, we all know how difficult this is, what a long way we still have before us. The motion for a resolution says very clearly inside – whether this is a foreign exchange transaction tax or a kerosene tax – that three conditions must be met. First: There must be no new burden on citizens. Secondly, There must be no distortion of competition. Thirdly, EU countries must take this path together. Again: The joint action of the EU countries is one thing, but the distortion of competition is actually to be seen globally, because we do not want, for example, to enter into the exchange transaction tax, which is what a Director-General of a large bank meant: Well, if that's what the EU is doing, then I'm putting a lever on it, and all the financial transactions are going through Singapore! – It can't be either! I say quite openly and also said this in the Financial Committee: It will also be a further way because, as I did in the European Parliament – and I had only two weeks ago the honorable task of leading a working group to the future financing of the EU in Brussels at the joint session of the EU Parliament and national parliaments – unfortunately, there was the overwhelming majority opinion that no new tax base should be invented, i.e. whether foreign exchange tax or kerosene tax is applied, but rather in the case of existing taxes. If we really want to move on here – and here I repeat my appeal, which I have also sent to all the political groups in the Committee on Finance – who is really trying to continue something that may not say: Please, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but may he try to win his own political groups in the European Parliament as well. There are factions that are quite similar to those of the political groups. There is a Socialist Group, a Green Group, a Liberal Group, a political group close to us in the European People's Party, and we must motivate them, otherwise we would only decide what is meant for the drawer, and we do not want to do so. Indeed, we want to make progress here both in the area of development assistance cooperation and in EU own funding. I think the basic idea is right. We all know how difficult it is, we all know that we have a long way ahead, but we are all called upon to bring together what we have brought together to a majority at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9137	Mrs Bayr's next speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9159	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! An intelligent foreign exchange transaction tax has a double dividend. On the one hand, it helps to prevent short-term currency speculation, thus also avoiding the crash of financial markets of fragile economies and creating a stabilisation of financial markets. Although it is a bagatll tax and the tax is in the Promille area, there is nevertheless revenue. For the EU area, it is estimated that this tax is gradually estimated at approximately € 28 to 29 billion per year. This is the second positive effect: This money is then available for useful things, such as development cooperation. This is also particularly important because experts estimate that in order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals each year, additional €50 billion will be needed. That is, even if the total revenue of a CTT, a currency transaction tax, went to EZA, it would still be too little to fight poverty effectively by 2015, to give all children basic education, to control child and mother mortality, to avoid avoid outbreaks of preventable diseases, to promote a greater influence on women and to ensure natural resources in a sustainable environment. To reach at least close to these MDGs, it is essential that income from such a CTT be used in addition to our official development assistance provided so far, in addition to contributions from the countries already coming from the EU, even if, as internationally agreed, we should increase our development performance to 0.7 percent of gross national income by 2015. We as SPÖ believed that we should make the full revenue from this foreign exchange transaction tax available for development, especially for social and environmental projects. The fact that this proposal now provides for a fund based at European level whose funds are to be available for development cooperation and EU own funding is a long-term compromise. For the same time, we have insisted that the condition of the EIA, namely implementation on a global scale, is that this condition would have made the real implementation of a foreign exchange transaction tax impossible. At the time of the request, there was also a cheerful component that I do not want to keep away from you. In the case of very many NGOs dealing with development and its funding, these days letters from the ÖVP Parliamentary Club have been blatantly flaunted, which have led to severe lachanic cases there. The ÖVP has tried to make it clear that after a long long, long effort, it was finally possible to bring even the other parties, who had been so determined, to finally agree to this foreign exchange transaction tax. I suppose it's the bad conscience she motivated. I assume that this is an attempt to make a bit of a meter before elections in these NGOs, after you have truly neglected a debate on development policy in recent years. I think this will not really work, but, of course, it will leave you to decide on it. Summa summarum will still be very much needed until it comes to a zone where a foreign exchange transaction tax will be lifted at European level, at EU level and beyond, which would be desirable. I agree with my previous speaker that the request is a start, There is no reason to reject the fact that it will be up to all of us to continue to do so at European level. I am sure that the Minister of Finance will do so with all my heart. Even greater efforts will be needed to achieve a reasonable balance on our earth and to ensure a fair distribution of opportunities, resources and riches between the poor and the rich, North and South, and women and men. Today's decision is a small step and one of the not very common sensible decisions of this legislative period, which is now ending. But I think it's nice that at least we've been going through it together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9204	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9225	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Mr President, for starting a very important dialogue with regard to foreign exchange transaction tax, and also for producing a very good, success-oriented result, namely that there is a four-party agreement on the fact that we want to achieve such a tax or tax in the EU. We want this to be examined first because we are all convinced that, in the course of the EU budget, we will also need to change the way in which the new budget is being spent, and that, as part of the European Union, we will therefore also be considering, beyond our budget, how we can achieve the European budget. One of these target measures would, of course, be the foreign exchange transaction tax, which we have always considered to be a very, very important point we have to consider. I do not want to address the internal market so much now, the importance of this levy and its impact. Of course, I also know the circumstances that it will not be very easy to put this tax into practice in Europe. It is important, however, to understand once again the impact of this measure on the European financial market and also on our competitiveness internationally. So I think, in sum, that it is very, very important to get these findings, and that it is a very targeted decision that we are taking today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9259	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9280	Madam President. The Chairman of the Financial Committee has referred to: There were long negotiations, it is a compromise. As always in the case of compromises, we could now use the time to specify what the common is, what the differences are. As far as our group in the European Parliament is concerned, I believe we must be least concerned. There will be no need for intervention. It's behind this concept. Sometimes one is also tempted to say in such things that we have been in the program for a long time. That's what I'm saying now, because it's what I'm saying. That's right. Sometimes I wonder what the greens did. In principle, we have included an instrumental measure in our programme of principles, although the target catalogue is otherwise formulated. But it has happened to us or succeeded as you want. So if I say now, that has been with us since 2001, I think, in the principle programme, that's the truth, and that's under the title "Tobin Tax" – in brackets: (currency transaction tax) – because there are already a lot of variants, as we know. However, I do not want to address this, but I would just like to stress one of the basic ideas, because even within the political groups – including us – there are different nuances, which is actually the meaning of this construction. I would like to admit at this point that it makes little sense – at least if you talk about the transaction tax – to show with your finger on the more or less evil – in brackets: (for others good) speculative financial flows. There are also those who believe that the market-consuming effects would have and therefore would be good. In my view, a foreign exchange transaction cannot be regarded as that or that or that. That is why it is the real sluice to this construction that it covers every transaction with a very low, actually with a very minimal tax rate, i.e. any transaction that now, if you want to, exceeds a certain currency limit. However, real wisdom does not develop until one wants to do so, either in retrospect or in advance, but at least by the fact that, in the short term, money is much more affected by it than money transferred from a title for longer-term purposes, and that is usually more invested, whether in funds or directly in real capital investments. That seems to me to be the way to do it. The fact that everything is very difficult in practice is clear. There are different models. I am not sure whether this compromise and the framework that we are setting up will also be possible. It would be to argue about this – I do not know if you will be able to speak later, Minister of State – which would be “competitively neutral” in this sense. If competition-neutral in the end says that this is only possible if one introduces it globally, then we would have missed the purpose, because the starting condition for everyone was to say: It is difficult if it only makes a currency space, but we could risk it! We have all these studies on this! – I do not know what competition-neutral means in this case, but we are glad that we have come to a compromise at all. - That's one. Strike below. Then, of course, there are the considerations – as Mr Lunacek will certainly continue – that such a tax, if we already have it, even if, from my point of view, it is now a matter of urgency that it will be a driving effect, but it will also create an upswing. Of course, you can discuss how we use it, and there are also many good access. The Federal Chancellor has also repeatedly made proposals on EU own resources funding in the summer of the previous year. At that time, he spoke even more generally about it, on the occasion of the seven-year financial perspective, he made a very specific statement, and I think he is right on this point. We do not move forward at EU level – in other words, from the EU's point of view, we as the EU, if you want to do so – in order to be a constant contributor to national budgets. We'll see where that's going. It's still getting harder. That is why one cannot appreciate enough to look at these things from the financial resources side. But, of course, I'm making a warning sign. I mean, if true, that the basis of assessment is a volatile thing Secondly, we do not know if this tax would be there, as it does, then we cannot rely on a solid basis of financing, so to speak, thirdly. But it's all good that improves this thing. I mean, here we praise the Federal Chancellor's access, that he just has the courage to say it: Yes, we want own funding for the EU! As my colleague, Mr President, has said, there is more to the point of view: For God's sake, no new tax at EU level! I don't know if this will save us, Mr. Colleague. It would then be necessary to name things in the EU as they really are. It may also be possible to resolve this by talking about tax and tax rates at all times, just as we do at national level at all levels of the local authorities – federal, country and local authorities. It would be possible to construct at least statistically, so to speak, so to speak, and thus make the political debate fit and consider what an EU-wide tax and tax rate might look like. You can go back and forth. In addition to whether this quota has to be reduced at the same time, there are, in turn, different approaches. Our problem is not primarily that. On this occasion it is worth mentioning that there are, of course, other own resources in question. All of these are candidates who are well slandered in the greens, for example – clearly! – the kerosene tax. In recent times, however, a tax has also been increased which is not, or hardly, taking place, a tax on marine fuels. All of this has completely distorting effects in the ecological field, and that would also be a step towards making economic globalisation, which is now moving forward – that is – more reasonable with market-influencing instruments. So much about this story. There's a lot to be said about it. It's going to take over by others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9346	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9368	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too would like to begin by thanking all the political groups for having been able to make a joint request here. The interest of the Socialist Group in this issue is apparently not very great. [[Abg. Reheis: You don't have a lot of crazy here either! You're sitting in the glass house!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You have a union lunch break!]] There were many initiatives in relation to the foreign exchange transaction tax of church institutions, of parties. There were also initiatives to finance the European Union's own resources. In this context, I would like to quote once again the remarkable speech by Chancellor Schüssel of the European Parliament in January of this year, who said literally: ‘It cannot be assumed that short-term financial speculations are not taxed at all. It cannot be assumed that traffic in the air or by ship is not taxed at all. I would ask the Commission to include these issues in the review. I also call on the European Parliament to support: Those who want a strong Europe must not be shy about this question." I believe that there is nothing to add to this, and as an Austrian Parliament, we are deciding today to thank God for an important step in this direction, that there is indeed more equality of competition in important areas. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other points, however, which can be used for this exchange transaction tax, for this taxation of kerosene and marine fuels. It is true, for example, that I personally believe that overnational tasks are to be covered by national taxes. This seems logical and, I believe, it is a logical argument in the population too. Both are quite simply transnational tasks, both development cooperation and EU own funding. Finally, a third essential point is that it is certainly true that it does not help at all if we as the Austrian Parliament take a decision here that there should be this tax in Austria on the condition, for example, in France and Belgium, but that this only applies if it is introduced across Europe. I think it is much more useful that we discuss this tax at European level, find an equal deal, find a common directive, and then come to a common implementation, at least across Europe. For this we will, I am convinced, find the acceptance of the population sooner or later if we do not already have it now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9417	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9439	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The foreign exchange transaction tax, Tobin tax, is intended to finance supranational tasks of the European Union. We know that financial flows are anonymous. There is a four-party agreement in this House, one, as I mean, very good sign for Europe. It is about examining the feasibility of introducing this foreign exchange transaction tax, and I do not doubt that it was my group's intention to introduce this Tobin tax to reduce the contributions of the Member States. The question of feasibility is answered by experts. The answers are very different, from positive to negative, from completely unfavourable to unfeasible. It is essential that different aspects are used for the assessment. That is the feasibility, that is equality and this is also free competition. There should be no negative impairment of financial markets or financial location. In discussion is the height of a base point. This does not correspond to a promill, as it has been said, and is not in the promill, but it is a tenth promill, with the European transaction volume initiated according to an estimate of about € 15 to 18 billion – well-known: at a base point. This is about 13 to 16 percent of the current EU budget. As a small note, so that you get a sort of size picture, I can also say that around $2,000 billion a day is being traded worldwide in about $2,000 billion. Just so you get an idea of how much is moving here. Let me now make a bond in a completely different area. At the Bank of America, a hacker wrote a program and installed it. This programme has caused less than one cent to be transferred to its account for each transfer made. With these transfers, he has become a dollar millionaire within a few days. [[Abg. Neudeck: How do you put this into a law?]] The difficulty of getting into the law is probably not so great. Why do I quote that? – Because there are opponents of this tax who speak of excessive bureaucracy. I don't think so. We will not install the hacker program, but it is an indication that it will be relatively simple or just feasible. So essentially: Step one: Review of this feasibility, second: Examination of the impact on the financial markets – I am very confident in this regard – and then it is also important to do the appropriate persuasion work in the EU Member States in the various political groups, because this can only be introduced in the same way – it has already been mentioned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9475	Next, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9497	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I am also pleased that this compromise proposal is now in place. The previous speakers have already stressed that this was not quite easy, but that it has succeeded in reaching a compromise. I want to tell you briefly how my personal acquaintance with the foreign exchange transaction tax began. That's been a few years ago. In particular, this tax was given in 2002 at the United Nations Development Finance Conference in Monterrey in Mexico, when, from the German Federal Government of that time, the Minister for Development Assistance for a Mr. Spahn, a German economist, had been commissioned to look at himself once, which is actually realistic from the Tobin Tax of the 1960s and what can be done in an EU context. The presentation of this study was also very interesting to me as a non-financial expert, because it was explained clearly what was possible. Spahn has developed a two-level strategy, i.e. a minimum tax rate for minimal transactions and only when it becomes speculative, a higher one, so that there is not a risk of non- Speculative financial transactions occurring daily, made possible and economies threatened. The tension was that this was actually initiated by the German Federal Government at the time. Although the German Minister of Finance at the time was not really in favour of it – this is now about the same, but there was at least no veto of our Minister of Finance in this direction; of course, he cannot put a veto in Parliament, that is clear to me, but we know how things are going – but at least this was an initiative of the German Federal Government, and it impressed me in so far as a foreign exchange transaction tax has appeared to be feasible and when it was recorded there that it is even feasible in the euro area. Of course, Switzerland and Great Britain should be added, but within Europe it is feasible. So you don't have to wait for the United States that probably never or hardly ever go in this direction. This was an important concrete entry into this subject for me, then still assuming that the money is mainly used for development cooperation in order to finance the Millennium Development Goals – and this has already happened today. The requests we made in the National Council during the previous legislative periods have always been rejected. In this respect, I am very pleased that the need for EU funding has now become the virtue that even German Chancellor Schüssel, the current President of the EU, has spoken out for such a tax and that we now have an application for both the European Union's own funding and development cooperation. I must say that from the green point of view of the last paragraph, that there should be a simultaneous reduction of membership contributions from the national states to the EU, is not really our line. We do not think that this is necessary, but we have, for the sake of the whole thing, agreed to it. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Something that my colleague Kogler has also said, because my colleague stupidly meant that we should win our respective group in the European Parliament for this: With our green colleagues, we are very easy to do, and we do not need to win them. Please do it with your Members! This also applies to the social democrats and the liberals – whoever is the latter of the contact persons. But it is even more important to me that today our request is addressed to the Federal Government with the request to also become an initiative towards the European institutions. And that is something I expect from this today's proposal, which is still being submitted during the EU Presidency of Austria and is also decided, that there is an initiative by the Federal Government during the Austrian Presidency; in fact, it is said that the Austrian Parliament has called on the Federal Government to implement this initiative, which has already been mentioned rhetorically, in fact. And I hope, Minister of Finance, that you and the Federal Chancellor will do so. Then: This can indeed be done by a Presidency. It can call on the Commission to make very specific proposals for the next financial framework, for the 2007/2008 review. I am also glad to see that the original views of the EIAs, which have said that they are only going to be taken out at a global level and actually to enter an EU directive, are mandatory for all EU Member States. Overall, this is an important first step. We would have thought it useful to introduce a law at national level as a good will action, just as Belgium and France have already done. There's no agreement for that, but we might do it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9558	Mr Keussnigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9579	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! So it has been possible to achieve a common approach on the issue of foreign exchange transaction tax or the European Union's own financing, even if we know that: should we be honest – that behind this compromise there are still worlds. We all know, however, that until there is revenue, money flows until we can reach a distribution, a lot of water will run down the Danube, so that, for example, with this fund solution, we can live very well with the use of these funds. We all know that in developing our own financial resources for the European Union, we are at the beginning of a political process, one that I suspect is a very lengthy process. It is now slowly forming a political project from this idea. There are many resistances, one needs only to look at the statements from the financial sector or to hear only the debates in the European Parliament, but we are real politicians enough to know that there will be a result and that the discussion is not to be stopped. The only question is how long it will take. I see the meaning of this request in particular in preparing the issue of financial review, which must be prepared and presented by the European Commission for the years 2008/2009 and then dealt with in the European bodies. The opportunity to hold a deeper policy debate on the future financial frameworks can, I believe, take place in the course of this review. In the end, there is also the opportunity to carry on in the matter itself. I believe that Austria, together with France and Belgium, is at the forefront of a new, I say, European movement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9619	I call Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9640	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present four-party agreement has provided interesting information in several committees, almost subcommittees or informal committees of the Financial Committee, certainly for all those involved. It is easy, as Mr Hofmann said, to ‘hack’ into a programme and become a dollar millionaire with 1 cents of almost illegal taxes within a short time. If you do this on a legal basis, you have to include a lot of other components. It must be internationally compatible. It makes little sense – and in this we distinguish ourselves from the demands of the Greens – to say that one can now decide nationally. I think that the way we have jointly chosen is to call on the government to continue its initiatives and to review the implementation of such a supranational tax. I think it must be assured that the administrative burden is moving at a level that does not exceed the tax volume, otherwise it would be counterproductive and distortion of competition or a shift from certain financial flows from individual countries that need to be prevented. In my opinion, this is the right way and also a first step in the right direction. I am particularly pleased that, after many negotiations, all this compromise could be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9673	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report in 1476. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 182.) [[14:05:31]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1409, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the transfer of the tasks of the Federal Pensions Office to the Insurance Office of Public Servants (BPAÜG) and amending the Procurement Act 1989, the Federal Budget Act, the Pension Act 1965, the Federal Carriers' Money Act, the Convicts' Reimbursement Act, the Civil Service Law 1979 and the Richtdienstgesetz (1467, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9720	Now we're on the 5th. Agenda item. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9744	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this government template, the Federal Pension Office, now subordinated to the Ministry of Finance, is subordinated to the Civil Service Insurance Office. We see this merger as a positive aspect. A central contact point or contact point of health, accident and pension insurance shall be assessed positively. We see this as a service for officials and contract staff. However, we have great problems, ladies and gentlemen, with the position of employees in disseminating. If an official or an official has been an official for 20 years and at the end has worked in the Federal Pension Office and is no longer valid for these 20 years, but is counted only for five years, although he or she does the same activity, this is discriminatory in our eyes. . We will not agree to this proposal and we will put forward an amendment to it. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) All farms are required: the same salary for the same work! What the Federal Government is doing here is exactly the opposite. We do not see that if someone does the same work, suddenly someone should have no more service periods, or only five more years of 20 years will be counted. He does the same job as his colleague at the side table, and he gets a higher salary at the side table because it is another salary scheme. They force officials out of official status, and we do not agree with that. This is a serious injustice. I therefore propose an amendment to the Government's proposal: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our concern, and it should also be yours. Please, come with our amendment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9825	The amendment by Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, has just been approved and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9912	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9933	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Hagenhofer's statement that the objective, namely the summary in a service office, with services in all the capitals of the country, is a very important goal to have health, accident and pension insurance in one hand. By the way, this is a motion for a resolution from this House from 2003, which we are following here. Originally, docking to the pension insurance institution was planned, which was not possible for constitutional and organisational reasons, because the insurance institution already has the data network and does not need to be redesigned. Mr Hagenhofer, you are subject to a terrible mistake. They say that we 'force' officials into the social security system. - That's wrong! When docking, the following principle shall apply: Whoever is a public-law official – is equal to a civil servant – remains. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: But with a different salary!]] Whoever is a contract servant remains. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: But with a different salary!]] If you want to opt into a new system, you have to take on the framework of social security law very easily. After our meeting in the Financial Committee, we held further talks with the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State and essentially explained the two questions you have raised: It is necessary, for equality reasons, that we do not avoid the five-year accounting that applies to the entire social security system. However, you can carry out much better accounts in individual cases. The second is that we have also made it clear – for which I am very grateful to you, Federal Minister Grasser – that the basic training of the federal government is kept equal to the service examinations in social security. With regard to the wishes of the staff representative, the works councils in the two houses, I make the following request together with Mr Fauland: [[Quoted print version removed]] The background to the application is that the operational council and staff representatives would like to be together for a longer period of time during the phase of the round-up in the current composition. With regard to the high level of competence of my colleagues, I am convinced that this challenge will be accepted and will also be put to a good end.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10019	The amendment by Mr Neugebauer, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10077	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10099	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! With the amendments, this is one thing: We will vote in favour of both amendments, which I say to the SPÖ's request, because we are in doubt – and there are not all doubts yet, Mr Neugebauer – about the interests of the workers in these institutions. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The crucial point – in principle, I disagree with Mr Neugebauer’s approach, but also with that of the SPÖ – has not yet been discussed at all. I can already imagine, Mr Neugebauer, that you are also praising the SPÖ, which has also expressed its support for the objectives of this re-integration. But what surprises me is that Finance Minister Grasser looks at this drive. The crucial point is that, although we have tried to achieve harmonisation in the field of social security over the past few years, I say now, with this somewhat unfortunate pension harmonisation reform on the one hand – this is where island solutions are being created again, that you, Mr Finanzminister, agree to a solution where the BVA – with soft B – now forms a special institution that can continue to manage old pensions, although the PVA – with strong PVA – could do just as well and would be the right institution because it must not only manage and calculate the old pensions of officials for the future, but also the new ones. The fact that you now agree to this island solution is of course pleased Mr Neugebauer, who can ensure a black institution for the future. [[Abg. School: Not just!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] The problem of the past and the past years, Mr Neugebauer, has been the following – we are talking about Tacheles, Mr Neugebauer. –: In the field of health insurance, you have taken a number of good risks to your insurance industry, although they would actually belong to the area of local health telephones, as in principle all insured persons. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] And now you do the same in the area of pensions. There, the pensions of officials, the retirement pensions, may now be managed by this institution. I am not only surprised by the agreement of the Minister of Finance, who says: Yes, it is!, but above all this little bit of BZÖ/FPÖ, of which one does not know what it is now. [[Abg. Scheibner: You'll get to know everything!]] – Excuse me, a few are FPÖ, a few are BZÖ, a few are nowhere in there, they are small squares, small squares of debris. [[Abg. Scheibner: If you don't understand!]] But there I wonder... – No, no. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're a bunch!]] There's something different from a bunch. But, Mr Scheibner, don't try to distract. They are, after all, taken out with the approach that all social security institutions should be grouped together. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, we moved in!]] And now you return to the election debate and secure special rights for an institution, so to speak, with which it can continue to hold its special position for decades. – That could not have been it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10206	I call Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10228	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to invite you to discuss this “mountain theory” a little bit, but this should not take place here in itself. Now on the subject. From our point of view, this is to be supported, because with this combination we are creating more proximity to the citizen. With the possibility to access the BVA services, the population in the federal states now has the opportunity to go to the BVA, to inform themselves there and to take advantage of personal advice. Until now, it was like this: This was calculated, and it was then delivered sometime. You couldn't really interpret the messages so correctly. I therefore believe that this is an essential step towards better and more effective advice for citizens. Mr Hagenhofer has said something that I have been very kind and happy to note, namely: the same money for the same work. This also leads me to the still not completely finished area of a federal employee law. If it is so important to you that everyone deserves the same amount, then I am looking forward to the day when we are discussing this and will certainly receive the approval of the Social Democrats when it comes to the fact that contract staff, the same job and the same field of activity, finally deserve as much as officials in the public service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] But what can also be mentioned here is that, of course, this can only be done through a new kind of remuneration. The curve of the official's income is such that the official deserves very little at the beginning, but the income goes up in the later years and even makes a very big leap on the basis of the current functional groups with an age of 64 years. This is one thing you have to think about, because people need the money at the beginning, when they start their family, when they get into work, and the curve should then be flatter. It will be one of the cornerstones of the Federal Workers' Act that, on the one hand, the injustice of the remuneration of the work will be eliminated and, on the other hand, a salary approach chosen, with which everyone can live very well. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why don't you change that now?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10270	Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Fauland has made a small trip to a law which is not on the agenda, briefly on this issue. Mr Neugebauer, in sympathy for trying to figure out something with side letters, but one must be clear: This House, with the AVRAG, has rightly prescribed to the private entrepreneurs that, if a company as a whole passes to another company, all claims shall be kept by law. You, Mr Neugebauer, will also have to take note of this as an employer's representative in the BVA, especially because it would be your job. I know, Mr Neugebauer, that, as trade union presidents, you are not very interested in public officials and their representation. It should be, however, that their rights should also be respected. It is about the career planning of people who come to another institution not on the basis of their individual decision, but now on the basis of this law. The career opportunities must not be worse than those already there. Some of the officials in the BVA may already be looking forward to future management functions they would like to have. But the opportunity must be the same for those employees who are today at the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, they must have the option of changing the law in order to be able to apply, taking into account all the times they have done in this institution, also – and this is especially true of me – if the Vice-President of the ÖGB thinks all too much perhaps here as an employer representative of the BVA instead of as a trade unionist. A little more trade union representation helps those you represent. [[Abg. (Muhammad), indeed, you are exemplary.]] We need a strong partner from the economy. Workers and officials need a strong representation. That is why you agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10329	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1409. Mr Matznetter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. MEPs have also tabled an amendment to the amendment tabled by Neugebauer, Fauland and colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Matznetter, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(9) and §10. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. The Members of Parliament, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fauland, Mr Cot, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(12). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This has been accepted by the majority in the third reading. [[14:24:07]] 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1410, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which repeals the German Federal Law in order to further deregulation of federal law and the Law on Public Service Promotion 1984, the Law on Workers' Rights 1994, the Law on Punishment, the Law on Punishment, the Law on Punishment, the General Civil Code, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on Civil Service 1979, the Waffengesgesetz 1956, the Waffengesetz 1956, the Tenders Act 1989, the Spanish Court Rider School Act, the Bundeslehrer-Lehrungsgesetz, the Landeslehrer Service Law, the labour market promotion law, the Waffenwehrungsgesetzlegungsgesetz 1969, the Bundes-Schulbehührungsgesetz, the School Organisation Act, the 7. School Organisation Act Novelle, the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, the School Time Act 1985, the Academies Study Act 1999, the School Teaching Act, the School Obligation Act 1985, the Education Documentation Act, the Mineral Raw Materials Act and the First Federal Law on Purification (Deregulation Act 2006 – DRG 2006) (1468 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10410	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There are no words for this. We are therefore voting on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1468 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. I assign the Government template 1410 to the Constitutional Committee. [[14:25:00]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1436, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Pension Scheme Act and the Employment Pension Pensions Act (1469 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1434, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Assessment Act 1955 and the Federal Tax Code – Structural Adjustment Act 2006 (StructAnpG 2006) (1477 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1435, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Income Tax Act 1988, the Standard Consumer Tax Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Administration Organisation Act, the Financial Penal Code, the Customs Code implementing the Customs Code, the General Social Insurance Act, the Foreign Employment Act, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Settlement and Residence Act, the Locking District Act 2002 and the Motor Driving Act 1967 are amended – Fraud Control Act 2006 (1470 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1418, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability (1471 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10492	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The rapporteur did not make any statement. This means that Mr Magistrate will come. Ikrath to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10519	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would now like to comment on the real estate investment fund legislation. On the further matter, my colleagues in the EIA will then take the floor. Three years ago, we passed a real estate investment fund law with which we entered new country in Austria. At the time, after very intensive negotiations with great commitment from the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister and the Secretary of State and also with the involvement of the financial sector, we have passed a law which, as we now know, is excellent the balance between legitimate investor protection interests and an attractive marketable product. For this, I believe, we can now pay tribute to the Minister of Finance and his team, because this law has enabled us to bind Austrian investment funds to Austrian funds on the one hand, and on the other hand to attract foreign investment money and, above all, to keep top real estates in our own funds, which would have been bought by foreign funds for a long time. At the time, we have undertaken to carry out a review after three years of how far this law and the product that this has been made possible actually meet our expectations, and to further improve it. That's what we're doing with this novel. We incorporate international developments and further strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian real estate funds through this step. In particular, we have provided for a number of measures in this new system, which I now propose with an amendment by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues would like to further optimize. I would like to describe the amendment in the broad outlines. In particular, it is about the fact that, in the future, Austrian real estate funds can also acquire shares in real estate companies where there is also the direct acquisition of real estate – in particular the new EU Member States – and thus their competitiveness towards foreign funds. We want to record changes in the value of real estate even in the case of participation in domestic real estate companies such as direct investment, and we also want to strengthen investor protection by preventing real estate funds from being damaged in case of acquisition of real estate companies due to any non-permissible property charges from previous transactions of the acquired real estate company which were not apparent in the valuation of the real estate company in the course of the purchase. I assume that we will also adopt this law and the amendment proposal together, and thank the Minister of Finance, who is not present at the moment – but the ladies will certainly send him this thanks – for the good work ahead.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10580	I declare that the request made by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr President, was also presented in writing and is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure and copy them to the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10693	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The central federal procurement has now also forced the government groups to act. The result of the work of this central procurement is known: The result is that probably thousands of small companies today no longer receive orders from federal offices and instead a few large ones take over the deliveries today – with the result that many jobs have also been lost. – This is not only said by Mr Kaipel or by small companies concerned, which is now also confirmed by the SME RESEARCH AUSTRIA report. In any case, it is important for us to take account of the smallest and small enterprises in particular, because they are the employees in our country and bring in most of the value added and because they are very, very important for the viability of rural areas. They always resort to the formulation of SMEs, and I think, Mr Neudeck, that we agree that the problems for small and small people are quite different from those for medium-sized enterprises. That is why we certainly want to act for these little ones and little ones. In the past, we have also put in place a number of requests to take account of the smallest in the law, including the regionalization and the corresponding procurement catalogue, which is to be trained accordingly. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you know city councillor Faymann in Vienna?]] – For two years the requests are in the house, but they have not been treated so far, although you all have such a big heart for the little ones and the little ones. There is now the possibility that we will discuss this issue. The reason for this is a government template which we will partially agree with in the form of an amendment. We will not agree to the one part in which you intend to release the federal procurement to the distributed areas of the countries and communities in the future, because in the past, companies that have fallen out of the orders have just gone there. And if you do, you'll support another death of the little ones and the little ones – and we don't want to. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who is the chairman of the city government? - Is that the head? That was an idea of Häupl, Mayor of Vienna!]] We have tabled a request to that effect, Mr Colleague, where the smallest are to be taken into account. This has forced you to act, and you have also submitted a request in which our demands can be found in part – the consideration of the smallest, the regionalization of the calls for tenders. They are now also calling a number of procurement groups that have to be targeted at the small ones. That is, of course, an improvement, and that is why we will also agree with this part. But you will have to explain why you only take in some of these procurement groups and exclude another part, such as small carpenters or cleaning agents. [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't explain why the head wants this!]] Moreover, you obviously do not want the Minister of Finance to report whether the little ones have actually received orders or not. This is absolutely necessary from our point of view. We have also negotiated in advance whether we can agree on it. And although Mr. Stummfully said: Yes, we are for that, and you at least partially meant that you are for it, it has not been possible for us to bring something together here. [[Abg. Neudeck: We said we were talking about it!]] That is why we are bringing in the amendment that you have already tabled and which provides for its key points that procurement groups should be extended to all groups relevant to small businesses, and that the reporting obligation should also be imposed on the Minister of Finance. This is important so that we can check whether the little ones actually come to orders. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Mr Neudeck, if you do not vote in favour, I am not quite sure whether you really mean the subject as seriously as you say. I would ask you to give your consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10802	I announce that the request of the honourable Member, Mr Ing, has just been presented in his key points. Kaipel, ladies and gentlemen, is also presented in writing, is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. It shall copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure; it shall be printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10875	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10897	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Kaipel: We take this very seriously! Above all, as you know, and hopefully we have already taken away from the debate today, the concerns, desires and desires of the small and medium-sized economy are very serious. That is why there have also been preparatory changes in federal procurement law – you know, this has been discussed in the Economic Committee and has also been passed through Parliament – and we have now made sure that the small and medium-sized economy comes to the train – and that is good and true. If you read through the legislative text, you will also come to the conclusion that we are calling for measures to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in these groups of suppliers and also to come to the train. This has been the declared goal of the Federal Government. If we also try to ensure that community and country-owned companies can participate in these bidder groups or participate in the advantages of the Federal Procurement Agency, then this can only be in the interest of a slimmer administration and administrative savings – and hopefully will also find your consent. In all cases, the small and medium-sized economy is also integrated into its regional interest environment, can also offer, so that great sales opportunities are preserved – that is the most important from our point of view. Secondly, on agenda item 10, anti-fraud law: I hope that the Federal Minister will also ensure that, in the area of tourism, gastronomy, the limit on turnover for recording obligations is raised. This demand is also reflected in the initiative of many tourists. And I hope that, on the basis of the regulation, it can also be taken into account that the registration requirement for micro-enterprises in our country is not such that they have enormous administrative burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10937	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10974	Mr President. I would also like to refer to item 10 and on this occasion, Mr Kaipel, once again, I would like to pay tribute and recognition because, beyond this amendment, he here again and again very profoundly - probably out of practice - is illuminating things. [[Congratulations with the Greens, SPÖ and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I am also saying this because, through many years of work with the Court of Auditors, I myself have always seen a lot of sense in it – and this still does – that we have created such an institution as a central, also federal, procurement – already! The question is only what specifications are being worked on there, and it is not all equally appropriate. In addition, of course, it should not be concluded that public procurement, in addition to many others, can be a very profound means of economic governance. Just need to know what you want. There are other links, for example, which our group is always very interested in in the procurement process. It's not just about: Which groups of companies is this aimed at? Who has a chance at all and who has no?, but also because: Which product groups are forced? – Sometimes it’s still quite related! There's always the grate trekking: Where does a legal change need to be made in order to make stricter requirements, where could the procurement company actually proceed accordingly? Where – however, now it is not there – is the Ministry of Finance behind it with specifications that then cause damage in the field of the small-scale economy or do not allow certain product groups to come about, simply because one does not admit to the realization that it would have happened, for example in hospitals, in kindergartens in the procurement of food – or quite?! – changing to organic food? – There are always pious exceptions, but they come into conflict there and have to ask themselves the question: Is that still in line with our order? Of course, the procurement laws themselves have to comply with them, but they do not stand in the way of them when they configure the tender in such a way that not from the outset certain persons are excluded, they are respectfully defined by the product groups in such a way that they can be properly identified or marked as their own goods. And organic food, for example, is just something different from normal, and there is also a market for suppliers! At least as important is the question of the small-scale economy. But I don't need to add much more. – Our agreement finds this, and I hope that we will at least keep in mind – even if it is still slightly different – the driving and acting of the BBG – “Acquisition Agency” – so far as to say – that it is being done in such a way that it corresponds to the public order and does not re-enter the fact that, out of public interest and originally good ideas, we create something that is then independent, and in the end, no one can catch it anymore. – We want to avoid that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11026	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Anti-Fraud Act 2006 provides for measures to support the fight against tax and customs fraud and to make it more efficient and taxable. This not only achieves more tax justice, but also increases competitiveness and strengthens Austria's economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government, with its economic packages, with the growth and location package, has set up measures with the largest tax reform of all time and now with the SME package that make Austria one of the most successful countries in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] And since good economy creates work, we have survived European depression better than everyone else and we also have excitement. The ways that this Federal Government has taken were good and right. – You too, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will once again have to understand, just as you will have to understand that KIAB’s presence at the financial offices is correct if the effectiveness of anti-fraud units is to be further increased. The previous successes of the KIAB as a powerful organisational unit in the fight against fraud speak for themselves. They demonstrate the correctness of the ongoing human increase as well as the organisational renewals. Thus, in 2005 alone, more than 18 000 businesses controlled around 65 000 workers and around 7 500 illegally employed foreign workers were identified. In total, fines amounting to € 17 million were imposed in 2005. In particular, the SPÖ seems to be a foreign word. How have you resisted the anti-fraud measures in the context of the tax reform debate! For example, I should like to quote Mrs Trunk, who said: 'In reality, you are deducting officials, hindering procedures and surveys and making it impossible to carry out this fight against fraud. That's negligence, that's intention!" – Your words, Mrs. Trunk! You can do this in the Stenographical Protocol of the 45. Read session. But what am I reading about Mr. Johann Maier? – 28 months later, he calls the activity of KIAB in a press release “success story in the fight against illegal employment and social fraud”. [[Abg. May. Regulator: (in the direction SPÖ) You are able to learn!]] What now, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Liability or Success? Your zigzag course can be particularly well pursued! They also proved this when selling the BAWAG. If you had been to the government, it would have been badly ordered by Austria! Therefore, take to heart the statement of the Salzburg Customs Code, which says how powerful the KIAB is in the future, does not depend on where it belongs, but on the persons acting!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11102	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11123	Mr President. Federal Minister! – I hope he'll come back once more! - High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tamandl, I would like to remind you that, when it comes to combating illegal employment, the trade unions are paying particular attention to the problems and that, in particular, we have found very clear words on the issues of the Social Fraud Act. At the time, we warned against adopting this law in this form. Mr Tamandl, I have also brought quotations from the time: Trade union criticises serious gaps in the social fraud law, the question of fraud, or, as another colleague said,: The Social Fraud Act is an Emmental with many loopholes. That is exactly the problem: that the Social Fraud Act cannot be the master of the problem of sham companies, because the relevant legal provisions do not apply! Now I'm coming back to KIAB. In our opinion, we already have the question – and I have, I may correct you, even hold a press conference in Salzburg and ask the question: Why is KIAB being smashed? Is this the end of a success story in the fight against illegal employment and social fraud? Mr Tamandl, I refer to the report by the Ministry of Finance on the control of illegal foreign employment, and I read that the objective is national and comprehensive control by KIAB intervention teams in the interests of equal competition. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! While the Anti-Fraud Act sets out, on the one hand, useful measures to combat tax and customs fraud, the KIAB will now be established at the financial offices. The financial offices now have to carry out the tasks assigned to the Ausländer employment law and to the employment contract law-adaptation law. - That's exactly the problem. We fear that KIAB officials will be ‘shattered’ in the context of the general fight against fraud and that national and comprehensive controls as they were carried out in 2005 – in gastronomy, at slaughterhouses, in the gambling sector – can no longer be carried out. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From the SPÖ's point of view, a further set of measures is necessary to combat social and tax fraud. We agree with the law, but we reject the shift of competence in relation to the KIAB.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11170	Mrs Rossmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11191	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Today, we can almost speak of a ‘SMEs day’. Today we have decided on the SME package, and in fact this is a logical continuation if we are to make a clear commitment to the successful SME policy. We know that SMEs are a key pillar of the Austrian economy. There are half a million employees in 150 000 micro-enterprises with up to ten employees alone, and another one and a half million employees in a total of 215,000 enterprises. With the establishment of the federal procurement company, a very sensible, central, efficient and, above all, economical purchasing solution has been found, but with the criticism of SMEs that they have difficult access to public procurement through this federal procurement company. We expect SMEs to have easier access with this regulation, which we decide today. But I also say: at a very high level, because the control report has shown that 73 percent of the contracts were very likely to be concluded with SMEs. As has been said, we are now once again improving this federal procurement company law at a very high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11226	I call Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11248	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with the 2006 Structural Adjustment Act, which also regulates the logging of undertakings. This has become necessary because there is also an option for smaller companies to log. That is why this scheme has been re-established. It is true that most will be known that the logging of a company will, of course, also intervene in the tax legislation or in the method of verification of profits. There are two types of winning analysis: § 5 for the registered undertakings and § 4(1). That is why it was necessary to look more closely at this, and this has been done in the Financial Committee, because for the first time the protocol also sets an annual turnover limit of €400 000, which suggests that all companies with more than €400 000 annual turnover should be logged. This can, of course, lead, on the one hand, to unfair hardness in income and corporation tax for small and medium-sized enterprises, if, for example, land is removed or changed or, in some cases, even when transferred. That is why we have still been able to make an amendment in the Financial Committee to the fact that, on the one hand, existing undertakings have been granted a transitional period until 2010 and, on the other hand, different arrangements can be made for the newly founded undertakings. But since we today – and this has been said several times by the Minister of Finance, too – have put all the emphasis on not imposing additional burdens on companies, this approach was actually clear. Finally, I would like to thank Günter Stummvoll and the ladies and gentlemen of the Financial Committee for their constant concern for the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11288	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11311	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Finanzminister! The control of illegal foreign employment has so far worked very well. The problem was that they were able to report to those who caught them when they violated the Foreign Employment Act, and they were also able to do so with the companies, but they could not punish themselves. They could also pass on the perception to the local health insurance fund and also punish the financial offices, but not themselves. Run Now I would like to say to you this great force – this collegial body – again to the financial offices – because these were customs officials, who had previously been grouped from customs to customs. Now the group is taken apart again and entrusted with the tasks of the financial authority. Mr Finanzminister, why is the law not amended to allow the KIAB staff to obtain the same rights they would have as financial servants? – You would not then make the demolition of a well-functioning apparatus, which had weaknesses, but those which were given to it by law. Why do you break up the group and re-run the financial offices? Of course, they will not be able to get rid of the same as before, but they will also have to share the corresponding services. We agree with this bill because we are also opposed to illegal foreign employment, but I would like to have mentioned this problem, Minister of Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11348	From the government bank, Mr. Mag. Grasser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to focus briefly on the question of KIAB, which has now been raised twice. I'll send you in advance: I believe that we can use more for the financial sector and for this federal government to combat fraud in a variety of ways than in many years before. We have consistently tried to combat tax fraud because we simply believe that it is also a question of fairness in competition and that we want to avoid distortions of competition to the fair taxpayers, the fair entrepreneurs, the fair small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why it is about limiting the shadow economy and increasing fiscal justice. We have done this with different measures. I would remind you of the reverse charge in the construction sector, of the 2002 tax-amendment law, of a Council of Ministers decision of 30 June 2002. September 2003, where we have decided on a whole bunch of anti-fraud measures. I also recall the 2005 tax reform, where there has been a further strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, of the growth and employment law 2005 where we have again adopted a number of anti-fraud measures; I recall the ASVG amendment in 2005, where we have defined the employer's social security application at the latest upon arrival of the employer. – A pilot project has been established since the 1st century. January 2006 in Burgenland in implementation. What we are doing here is nothing but the consistent continuation of an honest concern, namely the most effective, effective fight against fraud. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, now you doubt that we want to continue to use KIAB efficiently. – My request is simply that you give us a certain amount of confidence on this issue, which is because, I believe, we have shown that effective control of illegal workers’ employment – including foreigners’ employment – is a major concern. I can remind you: When we took over this competence, you were established in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and settled there from the responsibilities. At the time, there were about 30 fraud fighters in Austria in this direction – illegal employment of workers. We have implemented and enforced that we will come to a number of 336 employees this year – that is, more than a tenfold increase in the number of examiners, which already shows that this is a big concern for us. Therefore, I would simply ask you to assume that: After all, we will not consistently pass through the staff more than tenfold over many years, trying to achieve great productivity, effectiveness, efficiency of these test facilities, and then to destroy them ourselves. So I also ask that the expertise of my house be expected to give us the well-thinked action we want to take here, to do nothing but increase further efficiency. Why, I say very briefly: We have four organisational units dealing with the fight against fraud: first, the tax warrant, second, the customs warrant, third the KIAB and fourth, the special deployment group construction. We have repeatedly identified interface problems in strengthening the anti-fraud measures and have then carried out a pilot project in the South region. We have looked at the problems that exist, the weaknesses in the system and the problems of the interaction of the individual anti-fraud units. This pilot project – so in practice a new model has been tried – has come up with proposals as to how we should try to better control the interfaces. The proposal has come to the KIAB – these 336 forces – at the financial offices. Why has this proposal come? – Because the effects of illegal employment are always the result of tax-related consequences. That means that black work always means black wages, always means back-up taxes, meaning a withdrawal of wages. So far, the KIAB had found this out, but could not act itself, but had to make the report to the financial office so that the reporting from one unit would be given the next, and that would have to actually implement it. What we are doing now is reducing these interfaces and these problems where you have to report from one side to the other. We are expanding the competence of the KIAB, which, in addition to the identification of illegal employment and criminal charges – what it can do today – can also in future also make the determination of wages and the measures to be introduced. So be assured, ladies and gentlemen: This is not a breakdown of the KIAB, but a further strengthening. These are more competences they get – and this improves the fight against fraud in a consistent way, How we have tried to advance this over the last five years. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11441	The next item is the speech by Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11463	Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier said here at the speaker's desk that the ÖGB had pointed out the black work in Austria. - I don't think so. It has all pointed out, specifically the government, and we have taken it into our hands and said it. We'll put one bar in front of it, a corresponding bar! The ÖGB's proposal was to carry out the test operation in the construction industry only in the area under construction workers' holiday register. This was actually not a good idea, because then the KIAB would have come to a construction site and could have controlled only the ten who were from the construction, while the others might have been from other companies. We have agreed in the government together with our coalition partner on this anti-fraud law in such a way that all companies in the Burgenland have been in business since 1. January 2006 all employees – not only those of construction, but all! – must register before start of work. I think that has already been effective. The KIAB employees are happy because they can now really control them. In the past, the employer had seven days to report to his employees. If the controller has asked, since when one or another works, it has of course been called, since today in the morning or even since yesterday. – Now the employees must be registered. If that is not the case, there are appropriate penalties which have also been increased; in the case of organized fraud, they even reach out to prison sentences. All of this is strict measures that will help to counteract the tax losses caused by undeclared work, the rise in the unemployment rate which results in undeclared work and the corresponding reduction of undeclared work in Austria. That is why I am seeking agreement on this further procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11506	As the next speaker, Mr Ing has spoken. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11527	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Today we have discussed the SME strength package, and we now have to discuss another interesting point in the context of the GesmbH federal procurement, which in turn serves to strengthen SMEs and regional economic cycles. That's an important point. On the one hand, the question arises from the success story of the GesmbH. Everyone knows she works well, that she works well. The city government has demanded and wished that it too be able to use this agency, this GesmbH. We've been happy to give in to this desire, but he doesn't have to – he's allowed. Interesting is that just ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Although Häupl told us he wanted it. A classic example of how the SPÖ never really knows what it really wants. The fact is that we have now regulated this and introduced it in such a way that, on the one hand, there is the possibility to use it, but on the other hand, there is no compulsion. But we know how this will develop. The public will demand that the Agency be used for favourable procurement. This, however, poses the danger that there may only be large lots of demand. That is why we have determined that there should be the possibility, especially for certain product groups, for example cleaning services, tools, metals, electrical appliances and so on – an interesting list – of writing out of the region specifically in the region. This, in turn, gives us the opportunity to lead SMEs, regional providers in contact with the German public procurement company GesmbH to a successful economic community and to give small businesses the opportunity to join them. This is important because regional value added is a special engine of rural development. If we manage to implement this, to be involved in a modern shopping process, then we will give the responsibilities to use this great facility, and on the other hand, we will give the trader, the small businessman, the backbone of our rural economy the chance to be there. This is a very sympathetic arrangement and a sympathetic aspect which the Minister of Finance has taken up. Another, also very interesting: It was an incentive from the Federal Council to implement this resolution, which was an interesting experience in the discussion for us in the National Council. – Thank you all for being there.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11570	Mr Neudeck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11591	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Member, it is perfectly right that we all observe the federal procurement company with critical eyes; you especially in the opposition, for that is also the business of the opposition. At the request of the municipalities and also of the town council, I think, too – I don't know, what's the name of the mayor of Vienna, bag in hand, glass? - What's going on? He wanted it. Now, of course, I am jealous, because if I wish for something from the Minister of Finance – I don't want to tell you what he says everything I think I have. Heupl wishes the Minister of Finance fulfills it, and you come from the SPÖ and bite into the wadl. That's what I think... [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: Think about yours...! Worry as in Russia!]] Yes, Momenterl, I admit that Mayor Häupl is more lobbying at the Minister of Finance than I am as a Member. My colleague, Mr. Kaipel, I admit that, but I have to say one thing: It's not chief over the town government of the only perpetrators. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Mayor, so much time must be!]] The mayor, the head of state, the economic operator, Häupl. [[New call of the abg. Binder-Maier.]] Head of State, Mayor, Economist, if you want to hear everything. He has received the title “economy” because he does a lot for the Vienna wine. He said, not in production, but in consumption, he will get the “economy”. - So much time must be, Mrs. Colleague. So, Mayor Häupl, we've done it. Town councillor Faymann and the awards in Vienna. – The members of the “Freier Wirtschaftsverband” (Freier Wirtschaftsverband), formerly called “Freier Wirtschaftsverband”, so he is now called, I think, Mr Matznetter could help me, but he is not in space – but I am leaving the subject. City councillor Faymann thus forgives the fact that Vienna's companies, Vienna's small and medium-sized enterprises – he scratches very complicatedly, Col. Kaipel – are not able to offer, because such large lots are being asked for, because everything is so specified that every Steirer, every Carinthian, perhaps every Slovak will come to the finish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Chapel]] Please, come back in your own house! The Match Matznetter – Häupl and Kaipel – Faymann is of course interesting, not as brutal as Simmering – Kapfenberg, but we will see how it goes. We are working on the fact that some group of this package will be tied up and loosened. I can imagine that we can also implement the reporting obligation that you have in your request, if you think about it jointly and do not discuss it with the Minister of Finance between door and Angel. To the real estate investment fund law – so that we not only get stuck to the one item on the agenda – I have to say that we created one, I would almost say, in real estates that were safe from the mouth. At the request of some of the funds and some banks, the law is now a little evaded. We have succeeded in introducing an additional liability of the managing directors or the seller of such project companies through this amendment, but of course it remains a watering-up against the previous law. This is to be noted if the larger group would like to do so. Backup anchors were installed. I hope that they will be kept and it will not be necessary for a fund to buy a society that, in the background – just like the ÖGB – is liable for obligations that it cannot fulfil at all at this level.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11656	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. – I ask to take a seat! First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the real estate investment fund law, the investment fund law and other laws, in 1436 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stumvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr De Keersmaeker, tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to Articles 1 and 3. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, in the version of the Government template, taking account of the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr Delegate. Whoever gives his consent to this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft Structural Adjustment Act 2006, together with the title and receipt in 1477 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft Anti-Fraud Act 2006 in 1470 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a request for a separate vote made by Dr Matznetter, colleagues. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on Article 1(4) and (5), Articles 4 and Articles 7 to 12 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the federal law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability, in 1471 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Mr Kaipel, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote made by Mr Dr Matznetter, colleagues. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. Kaipel, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[15:12:59]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1433, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act on the sale of unmovable federal assets, and the amendment of the Federal Act establishing a Marchfeldschlösser revitalisation and operating company m.b.H. (1472 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1425, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which an authorisation is granted via federal assets (1473 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11822	We come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11849	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are today changing the law on Marchfeldschlösser revitalisation and operating society, then in the form that an already extremely successful project should not only be continued successfully in the future, but even more successfully implemented. What's behind that? – In the last legislative period, it has been decided to revitalize Schloss Hof and Niederweiden, one of the largest and most beautiful castles in Central Europe. It is the representative, Helmut Pechlaner, Kurt Farasin and Director Ebenbichler, in an excellent way. Together with a highly motivated team, it was possible not only to set new choices within a short time, but to revitalize the project. We can be really proud of that. I can only say that when it comes to the fact that the federal government still has additional possibilities there, that it also has the opportunity to involve Schönbrunn Castle even more in the entire operation and thus to support a tourism and cultural project far beyond the region, that is not only to be supported by us, but that is quite the line that we have planned from the very beginning. It was so that, in the first phase, there was a need for high decision-making capacity, that not several companies are responsible for it, but that there is a single line of responsibility. – This has succeeded, this project phase is now completed, and now we are going to the second phase. From my own experience, I can say that the castle is already being visited by far more than 100,000 people a year; the events sometimes have more than 10,000 visitors. It is a pleasure to see what has developed there. It has become a leading business for tourism throughout the eastern region. I support this and would like to say: I would be pleased if, in the same way, we could also speed up the other infrastructure projects for this region, namely the Marchfeld highway and, of course, the extension of the railway, the Ostbahn, so that there will be a further improvement in infrastructure, which not only supports the Vienna–Pressburg area, but also means an enormous appreciation for the whole region: for the inhabitants, but also for international tourism. That is why we not only support this law, but also thank us for truly professional handling, both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11898	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11919	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, There is obviously broad agreement on these two agenda items – that is not always the case here in this House, and that is why, I think, is worth mentioning. Agenda item 11 is about the property of the former Federal President's villa in Vienna-Heiligenstadt. The building does not have any cultural historical value, as can be seen from the template, and it is also known that the intended use has been lost. Our Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer has preferred to continue to live in his own four walls, and therefore, I believe, it is really appropriate to transfer this property to the Federal Property Society, which will initiate and implement the exploitation of this building. Furthermore, in this proposal, it is about the fact that Marchfeldschlösser GmbH will again become a 100% German company. So far, the company GmbH has been a subsidiary of Schönbrunner Tiergarten-GmbH, and there has been a joint responsibility of management. From our point of view, there is no opposite view of this. We will therefore carry this bill in this form. I would like to make one more point here: It is about the transfer of the Dragon catchers to the SAAB-Scania company. Obviously, the scrapping of these planes is more expensive than giving them away. If the League saves almost €30 000 through this overfit, then we should do so. – By the way, one of the few points in the Causa interception hunters, in which we, my very much appreciated colleagues from the government group, have an opinion. We will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11961	Mrs Rossmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11983	Mr President. High house! Mr Fassleven has already talked about our joint project on the revitalisation of Schloss Hof and Niederweiden. I am pleased that this has really become a success story; more than 100,000 visitors alone on the construction site. Our intention at the time was, in the first phase, to command no one better than, of course, Dr. Pechlaner, who made this excellent. Many animal species will be relocated there, and you have also recovered fauna and flora that originally existed there. With the new Baroque garden, which is unique, Schloss Hof has once again gained a high priority, a high tourist value; my colleague Fassleven has already pointed out that. The step we are now taking leads to more efficiency: on the one hand, through the tourist marketing of Schloss Hof and Schloss Niederweiden and, on the other hand, through the cooperation with Schloss Schönbrunn. I believe that we will succeed because these castles also have a very high priority in cooperation with "Imperial Austria", which they will also have in the future on the American tourism market. But even now, due to the opening of the east, many tourists from Poland, the Czech Republic and also from Russia come to Austria to see these castles. The Hungarian population also likes to visit these castles. In the vicinity of Located in Vienna, these castles are also an area for recreation for the population of Vienna, for which they will continue to have a very high priority as a recreational and excursion area.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12020	If you go to a microphone, I'll hear you better. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Magistrate spoke on the Rules of Procedure. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12054	Mr President. First, of course, I have to get the word, then the microphone makes sense. I am simply putting forward the request for the recovery of the Federal Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12081	The Federal Minister for Finance has just disappeared behind the glass door; I will have him created, honourable Member. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12117	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The representatives of the government parties should be grateful to note that at least the ‘existing’ Finance Minister is going to leave our colleague Kogler. I would not have found any reason to allow him to come up with this debate now, because he is probably unable to give us any information on the crucial point, namely: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's here anyway!]] How does the Minister of Defense come to the absurd idea that he could save 400 million euros for his property costs? If something is completely impossible, then the achievement of this number. [[Abg. Scheibner: Didn't you say that in the Commission?]] The Federal Ministry of State Defense refuses to put the good pieces on the market – and, with one exception, has offered exclusively property shopkeepers for sale, but claims, against any probability, that the offer of dozens of property shopkeepers could finance the German army reform, which we all jointly developed, supported and also decided with. [[Abg. Scheibner: You discussed the financing!]] That has another essential reason. The main reason to maintain this fiction of financing the federal army reform on property sale is that the Ministry of State Defense is financially simple and easy to end with the purchase of Eurofighter! And I'm telling you what real properties look like. Minister of Defense Platter claims to be able to sell the barracks Pinkafeld and Oberwart because Güssing is being modernised. – Güssing cannot be modernised, however, because there is no money for modernising Güssing because the entire building budget of the Ministry of Defence needs to flow into the modernisation of the Eurofighter airfields – and there is already too little money for that. That means – and you can see that in the sale of barracks –: If Eurofighter is bought and financed, then not even the remaining barracks can be modernised. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is in addition to the budget!]] However, because Güssing cannot be modernised, the soldiers must stay in building-fall barracks in Pinkafeld and in the upper guard for a long time. – This is simple and simple fact. This is an account that I know less about the Minister of Defence Platter, but usually about the Minister of Finance. Remember: How did it start? - That's what it said about the sale of property: We will redeem € 700 million! I repeat: 700 million €! What's in the paper now? – 400 million € is only left. Over a short period of time, the forecast has almost halved. I spoke to experts from this industry who know the properties. [[Abg. Neudeck: It wasn't me!]] They all call it miracles if it succeeds to save more than €100 million. [[Abg. May. Molterer: After you have to have experts!]] The crucial point is that: Through the manipulation of the Eurofighter procurement by the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Defence is now no longer able to make the necessary investments to reform the Austrian federal army and to modernise barracks. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a “logic”!]] If this government – including finance ministers – is not selected as soon as possible and sustainable as possible, then the soldiers of the future may be able to look at the six first unordered and false and over-priced Eurofighters from the ground, but even to watch this spectacle in built-up barracks that are long to be closed. This is what they owe to two ministers: a minister of defence who is unable to do so and a minister of finance capable of all things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12256	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr Kogler, the Minister of Finance, has informed you that he has interrupted a conversation with the German Minister of Finance to comply with your request. He's been here for four hours, although he's been chairing the ECOFIN. So please accept that he is taking this debate very seriously. I call Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12286	Mr President. Mr Pilz has repeatedly claimed that Eurofighter procurement does not allow for necessary reorganisation measures in the Austrian Federal Army, for example in the barracks. – This claim is wrong! It is guaranteed that, in addition to the national defence budget, funding will be provided for all costs caused by the Eurofighter. Therefore, there is no link between the Eurofighter acquisition and the other tasks or expenses in the Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12320	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12341	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank Mr Scheibner, who, in his statement, correctly put into question all that Mr Pilz threw in his usual manner – apples and pears, herb and beet. Because the museumization of the Dragons today is also at the debate: I remember, Mr Pilz, very well – that was in the second half of the 1980s – that you too were one of those who voted in the choir at the time: This is irresponsible, the Dragon is a murderer plane that will fall down on schools and kindergartens, causing terrible damage! That was one of your predictions back then, Mr. Pilz. You will be able to remember this, but probably you will not want it anymore, because during the 20 years the Draken did not have a single essential panacea, there has never even been an approximate moment of this risk, Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: The Dragon was a pan!]] Perhaps one should come to the understanding that not every prognosis just because it is constantly repeated against the government becomes more correct. The Dragon has proved that too. I can also recall how people applauded when the Draken, when there were 14 days of war in Slovenia, rose. Perhaps you should also look at this and not constantly act against the Eurofighter. They do not seem at all able to reflect politically once what the past has already brought to light. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] The Dragon has now retired in dignity: He has been used reasonably, and that does not cost us any euro. On the contrary: He will benefit from one or another. We will enforce the Eurofighter – just as we did in the Dragon at the time, and as we know today, we are entitled to do so – against all resistances. And there you can invent G’Schrohln, as many as you want: They won't believe you anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12384	Mr Rada. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12405	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! I agree with my dear colleague Fassleven from this region with a 100% security: The Marchfeld castles have become a success story, and he has a share in it. That may be the same way. There is only one disadvantage in the positive development of the Marchfeld locks: the lack of connection. It was this government that stopped the off-roads. There are no public connections; they are simply not available. Many visitors cannot come from the East either, because it is not possible to create reasonable March transitions with this government. Mr Fassleven, I know that you are always on the road perfectly in this direction, and we are on one line as well. However, there is still a lack of basic conditions, and I expect or require from this government that we get the March transitions that we get the traffic connections so that we can also benefit the Marchfeld locks as we want in this region and also foreign traffic.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12438	Mr Fauland is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Since 1987, the Draken has secured the Austrian airspace; it has spent over 23 000 accident-free hours in the Austrian airspace. In 1991, there was a first aha effect in the population – and it was considered in advance that there were also heads of state who were most strongly opposed to this aircraft – and one rejoiced in Graz when the Dragons got up there and ensured the security of Austrian sovereignty and security of the Austrian population. Today, the Dragon chapter ends by returning the last eight remaining Dragons to SAAB. We can do so with a distinct sum, and that is why this chapter is closed. Just as Draken’s chapter started to stir up emotionally and politically at the time, we are now again in such a situation – Mr Pilz has just done it – as far as the new interception hunter is concerned. I am very confident that only in 40 years will our successors find what is going to happen to the parts of the Eurofighter. [[Abg. Scheibner: Pilz will still make a urgent!]] Perhaps Mr Pilz is the only one who is still inside here, and then he can discredit the successor of the Eurofighter in his usual way. As far as Mr Pilz's statements on military reform are concerned, I repeat what Mr Scheibner has already said: The acquisition of the Eurofighter takes place outside the army budget; it is financed outside the army budget. As far as the accompanying measures are concerned, I note here once again – although you all already know – that the accompanying measures are also necessary without the Eurofighter, that there is no Eurofighter flight, but only a Eurofighter airfield, in the course of the tent, and that the necessary modernisation measures in the area of flight radio, in the area of the radar system, would be necessary even if we had bought another aircraft. Finally, I call on my colleague, Mr Pilz, to stop spreading untruths here at last, things that cannot be proved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12499	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current legislative projects are the sale of property of the federal army and the transfer of the Dragons to SAAB. It is also about the sale of the Federal President's villa and the establishment of a Marchfeldschlösser revitalisation and operating company m.b.H. In this context, I would like to congratulate two Members. First of all, Werner Fassleven. He is a supporter of this initiative, one that has seen for years that the Marchfeld castles, in particular what the Hof Castle and the Niederweiden Castle are about to do, are revitalizing. This has actually been successful. The second gentleman, whom we must congratulate, is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Obviously, on the occasion of his last visit to his predecessor, when he looked at the villa, he realized that it was an extremely damp wall – and before he was rusting there, he thought he would rather stay in the Josefstadt. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think that was very wise. The only thing that remains now is – and that can only be said to those who take it now – to tear off this villa. I talked to my friend Adi Tiller because he always has the best ideas for Döbling, and he thinks you should not just try to use the two properties together, as it is planned, but in the sense of a better exploitation of this property in Döbling, also talk to the city of Vienna about whether one could not in all cases also make a redirection back to the high wait. You certainly know the “Vienna”, the old football club, who is now receiving a beautiful new stadium in Greenland. To this area one could still achieve an improvement in dedication, which would not be an error for this property. - That's a little inspiration. Otherwise, you can only agree and agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12575	Mr Neudeck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler said, in the speech of Mr Maier, that the speech was not positive for the property. – Mr Kogler once again did not listen, for Mr Maier has found that the building is to be sanded and the property is then sold, and has made a proposal for dedication and exploitation, which is certainly sustainable for the property. I would like to say to Mr Pilz: This is always “class”: There are four hours of the Green Group when the Minister for Finance sits here and once calls for a quarter of an hour.... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, if you're talking about size, that's a little questionable. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Yeah, yeah, that's all right. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I'm not talking about Breed, either, Mr Jarolim. Mr Kogler has previously felt the need to get the Minister of Finance to work, even though he is in the house and has just left the hall. Mr Pilz, on the other hand, comes shortly before his speech – and goes right after his speech. At some point he may even go during his speech. Mr Pilz spoke of real estate professionals when he submitted the assessment for the SIVBEG with €100 million. I have the great fear that he actually interviewed the managing directors. Real estate experts can't have talked to him there. Furthermore, there is a change in the law regarding the Marchfeld castles, and it is to be said that, after decades of nothing has happened, especially among the responsible Social Democratic ministers, this government has made this jewel on the outskirts of Vienna, I say now as Vienna – you, Werner Fassleven, will say, in the heart of Lower Austria – so beautifully wake up or so beautifully designed that it is in the Schönbrunn castle cultural and operating society m.b.H. to put together and proceed to a joint marketing process. I would like to thank Werner Fassleven for this development work and I have recognized it a long time before these societies were founded. It is gratifying that all the parties represented here will agree to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12661	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets and on the amendment of the Federal Law establishing a Marchfeldschlösser revitalisation and operating company m.b.H. with title and entrance in 1472 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we reach the vote on the draft federal law granting an authorisation to the federal assets, together with the title and agreement in 1473 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We come to the third reading at the same time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[15:40:49]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (655 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Eco electricity Act, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Regulatory Authority Act (1225 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1411, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act which amends the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, the Gas Economic Act, the Energy Steering Act 1982, the Oil Supply and Reporting Act 1982, the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 and the Competition Act (Energy Supply Security Act 2006) (1452 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1419, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Supply Security Act 1992 (1453 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12744	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda. Mr Van der Bellen was the first speaker to speak. [[Members of the Greens place on a table next to the speaker’s desk a yellow barrel entitled “No to This Environmental Pollution Act”.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: With the greens we are used to only bottles! Why is there a barrel now?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen is already at the speaker's desk.]] Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you would make sure that this vessel is empty for the first time and that it does not lead to any pollution of the environment. This does not require a permit to set up, I assume. We will allow a very short-term visit to your vessel, but I would like to have it transported again after the end of your speech. – Thank you very much. Mr Van der Bellen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12803	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just an artistic installation, it is also a matter of – you may know such barrels, most of them are, I think, yellow – no, not of the OMV; but of the nuclear industry. [[Abg. Hornek: From the OMV!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen rotates the barrel; it becomes visible the symbol for nuclear power as well as the inscription “No to the Black-Red Environmental Destruction Act”.]] You couldn't see that before. In this way, you can better recognize which symbol it is here. The strange - not to say perverse - result of this so-called eco electricity law is that one of the few winners of this novel will be the International Atomic Industry. And this is really amazing for such a law that is jointly presented by OVP, BZÖ and SPÖ. Before I come back to it, I would like to tell you what you can experience in Austria, if you go through the area half-way with open eyes and look back and again at a farm, which I would particularly recommend to colleagues from the Social Democrats. In Steinach am Brenner, for example, a village in the Wipptal, located about half between Innsbruck and the Brennerpass, there is a company that originally, one can say, was founded by farmers who had four employees three years ago and today has 180. Once again: four employees three years ago and today 180! When Georg Willi of the Tyrolean Greens and I were there a few weeks ago, we were the first politicians to look at this company, apart from the mayor of course. The Tyrolean state government – whether ÖVP or SPÖ – has not yet taken note of this company, I believe. I guess she doesn't know what's in the Wipptal. This small company – now not so small at all, formerly four, today 180 employees – is active in a market that I am amazed at, I have to admit, a market that is still a short time ago as a split from – how am I supposed to say? – People who think of their time 100 years in advance: in the field of photovoltaics. It is not in the area of solar plants for hot water production, but in real photovoltaics, that is, the production of electricity from solar energy with a special technological focus. There's her special know-how. These talented inventors, engineers from this small village, have found a way to meet these huge modules, where, as it were, the sun is beginning to produce the electric current, automatically double the sun, not just as far as the direction is concerned, but depending on the height of the sun, the inclination of these “things” changes every few minutes. This company, the company Solon AG, has a 100% export rate. Now don't come to me and tell me, After wonderful, Austrian technology sells itself to 100 percent abroad!, because the return side of a 100% export rate, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, means that there is no domestic market for photovoltaics. There's no such thing as him! And why doesn't he exist? – Because in promoting all the opportunities that arise here for the labour market and for economic growth of course, Austria is asleep, sabotaging, as today, with this so-called eco electricity law novelle. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That the non-existence of a home market does not facilitate the growth of such companies, I may not need to “ruin” the present economists of ÖVP and SPÖ, but for everyone else I say: If a customer, a potential customer, is interested in the products of this photovoltaic company Solon AG and asks: Where do you have reference projects? Then they can't say: Na ums Eck, in Innsbruck, in Wels, in Vienna or anywhere in Austria!, no, the biggest reference projects they now have to show are in Germany – Germany has a far better promotion of renewable energy than Austria – and in Spain to my surprise. And soon... [[Abg. Grandruck: Sure! Because they have more sun!]] More sun – please nice, these trivia arguments! Of course, the other geographical conditions in Spain are different; but the biggest project that this company has put on its feet so far – Mr. colleague, take a look at this! –, is in central Germany, not in southern latitudes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] As far as Southern Italy is concerned, you're already right. Southern Italy, for example, is a hope market, even without public demand, because there is nothing working there and the climate conditions are favourable. Yes. But the pure heat alone, I've been told, doesn't bring it from the sun. On the contrary [[Abg. Großruck: No, not the heat, the sunlight!]] It may even be difficult to find the optimal balance here because of the heat, so to speak, energy is lost. But that's what I'm hiding from you. But it is not only Tyrol and the Wipptal, which here already without any public support, yes to resistance, one must say that there are giants of ÖVP and SPÖ here, in other areas there are also similar promising examples. In Upper Austria, there are a number of companies that work in photovoltaics, solar energy and other related areas of renewable energy – the Fronius company is just an example – that come together and cooperate in certain energy clusters where it brings something. Wels, for example, is developing into an interesting center for energy saving, for energy efficiency with the annual trade fair in Wels and the technical college there, which offers corresponding courses. Güssing in Burgenland slowly attracts international attention through its renewable energy centre. Vorarlberg has been a market leader in certain architectural and engineering questions for years – I don't know how many people have already realized this here in the Hohe Haus – in the construction of houses that you don't have to heat in winter and you don't have to cool in the summer. - Sounds simple. Really great what has emerged there in this entire collection of architects, engineers, technicians of all kinds. That's a huge know-how. [[Abg. Head: Has nothing to do with the law!]] Does not have something directly to do with the eco electricity law, but has something to do with the big question of energy saving and energy efficiency, and nothing about it. [[Abg. Head: The ÖVP housing promotion...!]] The ÖVP Vorarlberg has been an example in this area for years, namely in terms of the corresponding design of housing development. This shows what is possible if the appropriate framework conditions are properly co-formed by the state. The other federal states in Austria have so far not imitated this in this form. [[Call to the ÖVP:Lower Austria is a model!]] Since when, Mr. Cot? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Let us be glad when it is slowly talking around in other federal states as well. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He's right!]] Let us be glad if this Vorarlberger know-how is also used in individual initiatives in Vienna, for example in the second place. District is a huge new student home, which is a passive home. You can look at this on occasion quietly; by the way, it was recently described in the weekend supplement of the “Press”, I think, in detail and in a positive way. I've been looking at it myself. It's really impressive what you can do. [[Abg. Großruck: A passive house is nothing new!]] Here we have – I use the conjunctiv – a market for the future: the know-how in energy saving, in energy efficiency, renewable energy in Austria. We have always been good at the water, but water technology is out of place, because we do not need any additional funding. They live on the commercial market alone, but what is in photovoltaics, what about biomass, my colleagues farmers from the ÖVP? You can cut down all of this in this new eco-power law novelle, which is being decided today? I do not believe that they are aware of what is possible here – far from environmental and climate protection; that is perhaps just the greens, may already be – but the economic growth, the jobs in this market, should all be interested in this House, I would have thought, including the colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But You ignore that! You just need to ask yourself a simple question, a simple question that directors, corporate directors of such companies ask each month. If you look at the map and look at the economic data from time to time in the economic papers, you have to ask yourself: Is it imaginable that India and China, in order to reach out to only two countries, with around two billion people – a little more – this huge economic growth, especially in China, which already exists there for more than 10, 15 years, will continue to continue with the energy policy of the 20th century? - Century? - It's not imaginable. A small parliamentary delegation led by President Khol – Mr Molterer was there, Mr Scheibner was there and a few other colleagues – was in China last November. You don't need to be an expert – you see with your eyes what's going on, and the Chinese themselves admit it. For example, if you are in Szenzhen – 20 years ago a fishing village, today, I do not know 6 million or 8 million inhabitants, a mixture of Manhattan and Los Angeles, not my case, but the dynamics there is unimaginable – so if There you can look out of the hotel window – across the golf course in the inner city; interesting phenomenon of communist culture – across the golf course to the high houses 300, 400 meters away, so you can hardly see these high houses. Why? - They disappear in Smog. And Chinese politicians are the first – they have happened to me like Greens from Austria in their opinions, only the practice is currently looking different – to admit that this type of industrial policy, this type of economic growth cannot be maintained in view of the consequences. The company Solon AG knows that too. There one leans back and says: Please, people, for the next 30, 50 years we're in the growth market anyway! This is comparable to the IT market of the eighties and nineties of the last century. – But the ÖVP does not register that. And the SPÖ, I have to say, unfortunately, that goes along with this law, does not register it either. You seriously believe that you can justify yourself with an additional support for medium-sized hydropower plants? Hydropower is super, great, unique – but that's a sophisticated technology that doesn't need any additional funding of 50 or 60 million in this law. The photovoltaics, the facade-integrated photovoltaics, for example: Whoever gets the foot in the door can only win, because these are future markets, these are jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the Federal Government and the SPÖ ignore this. The content of today's law can be summarized very briefly: Reduction of renewable energy funding, reduction of run-times, no longer guaranteed acceptance obligation, and, and, and. [[Abg. Head: That's not true!]] And there is nothing in the law for photovoltaics at all, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Head: That's not true either!]] Yes, please: Do you then submit these, two or five million or how much remains for all of Austria? That's really ridiculous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it was not about the labour market in Austria, if it was not about so many jobs of the future that you are completely unnecessaryly putting at risk here, then I would not have to be so eccentric about it and continue to ruin my voice. Economically incompetent is what you offer here! I am not talking about environmental policy at all, but economic policy is incompetent what you are offering here! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who now reduce electricity expansion from renewable energy sources and at the same time do not make any serious efforts in the field of electricity saving, electricity efficiency and so on, the entire energy efficiency, I ask: Where will the increase in electricity then be covered? Where? - Here, where else?- Oh, my God! [[on the nuclear power symbol on the barrel next to the speaker's console]] This law is an invitation to additional nuclear power imports to Austria. - I congratulate you. I really congratulate you! The basic consensus that is supposed to exist in Austria, by ruining simple eco-strom legislation on this kind of de facto, must be answerable to the public. [[Abg. Großruck: You don't believe what you're saying!]] The nuclear power industry, which is not known to have its focus in Austria, but somewhere, is the real winner of this eco electricity law novelle. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of these things, it is only for the SPÖ to agree to a law which, when it comes to the cost of promoting renewable energy, which has already been virtually reduced to the point of going-no-more, has a significant burden on the industry when it comes to spending costs, and in particular on small consumers in private households. Someone's got to pay. – And you agree with that, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! For example, a small consumer, who, we say, consumes 1000 kilowatt hours a year, will in future pay three times more for these funds to be spent, while a power-intensive industry company, we say, has to pay 100 million kilowatt hours by 33 percent less in absolute euro. - I congratulate you! Otherwise you'll get up over every cent, at the recipe fee or somewhere where you might ask yourself: Wouldn't that be an appropriate increase? But then you'll swallow it without taking the eyelash. Did you ever notice what was decided here? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The previous eco electricity law was a good law, a successful measure, has brought many successes in Austria in particular in the field of wind and biomass and has done something for market preparation, for market penetration in these early stages of development. We did nothing in photovoltaics, otherwise these companies would not have a 100% export share. This market is not available in Austria. And now you are going back to this successful law – you, the parliamentarians from ÖVP, BZÖ and SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13076	I should like to ask for the proper disposal of this old oil cane. [[Members of the Greens carry the barrel out of the hall.]] – Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, I'm already quite surprised, or I'm actually not used to that from you. You have repeatedly given of yourself, here and also yesterday at a press conference, an incorrect, false one. [[Abg. Sburny: Sure not!]] I really have to point this out. I'm usually not used to this from you. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] You say here all the serious – no, yesterday you said – that we would cut the funding by 80 percent. – That’s just wrong! You can count better than what you claim here. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: How much do you think they are?]] The fact is: Since 2002, we have built up an annual funding volume of €150 million and have increased this to €300 million annually by 2011, i.e. the total volume. As all these investments are running for about 13 years in support, the following will already be established in the light of the contracts which have been concluded: This will make up €3 billion throughout the entire period and will even increase by this law to €4 billion. Where you can see a reduction of 80 percent, you have to pre-calculate it to me first. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: “Reduced” I said!]] They claim there would be no purchase guarantee. - That's wrong! If you read the amendment application that has been distributed, you will realize that there is an additional 12 years of acceptance guarantee for the installations, if the grant contracts expire, or, vice versa, a acceptance obligation for the network operator or for the eco-power company. It is not true what you are trying to explain to the people here! [[Abg. Sieber: Incredible!]] One thing is interesting: You took out a single company. I am pleased about the success of this company. But I'm wondering, If this company does not sell anything in Austria, then there must be others, because in the short term of this law there are at least 2,000 approved promotion contracts with photovoltaic plant operators in the field of photovoltaics. Then they obviously bought their facilities from another company? In any event, what you are saying here is no indication that this law and this funding instrument do not take effect. That's unfair what you're saying here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the burden of households. We made a generous law in 2002 that was excellently adopted. By the way, they voted against at the time. Interestingly, it's a law that you're defending now – just to notice that on the verge. Budgetary loads amounted to €25 per household in 2005. If we had extended this law in this form – as great as it is – indefinitely, one would have been at 100 € tax per household in 2011. The loads per household are still rising from 25 € to 43 €. But we have kept the increase and therefore also the significance of the impact of this law on those who have to pay it within an acceptable framework. And that was with an intention of this law. In short: We are able to continue to open up opportunities for expansion by this law to renewables and eco-electrics, but the costs for the payers are to an acceptable extent. I mean, these are two things in a spagate of these two demands – you have to bring them together first! The fact is: We continue to move with this law in the European head of eco-electric production. You have to do this for us first. What you are doing is to defy the whole thing without alternative proposals – except for the demand that it should be more. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No!]] But this is not particularly constructive and imaginative!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13214	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13236	Mr President. Minister! High house! I now only need 15 minutes of speaking time to find out what has been put in the Chamber by the head of the honourable Member here in the inconsistencies. [[Abg. Head: Please! And that in four minutes!]] Reading the law and looking into it is strongly recommended to him once. But you probably just need to sum up: If Mr Klubobmann's head is allotted to him, Van der Bellen's inaccurate in terms of ecostrom, then that's self-evident. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Maybe it's just ignorance!]] Number one. One should be able to count and listen correctly to what the criticism is. If the Greens say that the expansion of the eco-electric power plants is restricted by you with full braking and there is a reduction of 80 percent for the additional funding you provide for the period 2007 to 2011, that is 17 million €, this is a correct indication. That's where the... Parliament's head prefers to make a telephone call in the plenary room. Okay, that makes its priority very clear. Mr President would normally have already become very active, but good. Maybe he's on the phone too.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13291	Ladies and gentlemen, for this comment I give you a call for an order. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – I ask you not to give a condolences! I should also like to make a point of order, Mr President, for telephone calls in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13327	This was neither acoustic nor intelligible to me now, but I am happy to be informed afterwards. In any case, the invoice is clarified. It does not help either if the ÖVP includes all the funding already granted in the past. A reduction in funding volume in a period remains a reduction! Another detail from the fullness of things that I really need to correct now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You have just said that the obligation to accept has been great anyway. I will read from your own amendment. In § 10 the introduction is already: “The eco-power handling unit is obliged to decrease according to the available funding for eco-electric installations (...).” – You have the first restriction inside. [[Abg. Head: That's not true! Wrong section!]] To call the photovoltaics. The amendment is as follows: “Electrical energy from photovoltaic systems is subject to a reduction obligation (...) only up to the national total of 15 MW.” – One could quote a whole series of formulations from your own amendment request. Conclusion: Under the line remains the same picture. There were loud and clear criticisms from all the national leaders in the national conference in 2004, when you first presented your novels. I can quote from the opinion of the Styrian Government. In September 2004, he regretted that this was already the second interruption of an initially thought to be sustainable development and that this was, moreover, an unreasonable burden on small consumers. Furthermore, the capping and saving of the eco electricity expansion are criticized. Landesrat Plank, in 2004, said that this law would be a death penalty for eco-energy. A few weeks ago, he strongly criticized the Ecopower Act, because it results in an expansion stop of eco-energy and a lack of planning certainty for plant operators. By the way, he confirmed that to me on Friday. In his eyes, half a novelle is not novel and completely inadequate. Only so that the SPÖ is reminded of something: Their party president, Gusenbauer, also meant – in December 2004 – that SPÖ would never agree to reductions in the promotion of renewable energy. – “Never” is not so long at SPÖ in this case. This is a law that is criticised all around by all those who are somehow serious about the development of green electricity or are involved in it. It leads to the fact that the development, which is urgently necessary for economic policy reasons, but especially for environmental and climate protection reasons, as has already been carried out, is not possible, because a serious investor can hardly invest under these conditions – and that in areas close to your own clients. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that 90 percent less biomass plants can be built? It is not only about wind power and photovoltaics, which may not be at your heart, but it will also stop biomass. [[Abg. Grill: That's not true! This is once again the untruth!]] As you can agree, Mr Grillitsch, I am absolutely sluggish. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have contributed to the promotion of fossil energy cogeneration plants in a law on eco-energy and renewable energy. If all that you're giving in funding amounts – that's €60 million – would be installed in gas power plants and, for example, power-heat cogeneration plants, this would be a third more in the production of gas and electricity. That can't be eco electricity in your eyes – natural gas, fossil energy? Under the rule: You say you want to promote eco electricity and renewable energy, but you don't! You submit a law, and you agree by SPÖ, the ÖVP and the BZÖ with what will prevent green electricity in the future, play a market opportunity, a workplace generator is not used and, above all, nuclear and fossil energy will only be properly re-opened. – A completely wrong development! We therefore call for Greens to: Back to the start! A new law must come from here, including an energy efficiency law.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13386	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. His welcome time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13407	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the speech by Professor Van der Bellen has become clear to me: We've been negotiating too long! We have come too close to the election date for the 2006 National Council election, otherwise I will not understand your argument, Professor, in any way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP and representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Oje!]] If you have listened to your colleague Weinzinger, you will find that she referred to 2004 – 2004! In 2004 you did not even mention but several times. In 2004 the government proposal was presented, and we would never have approved this government proposal. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Listen! Otherwise, I have to make an actual correction!]] We also said after long, intensive negotiations on this government template in December 2004: At this stage, we are breaking down the negotiations because the government parties were simply not prepared to meet our expectations. There were many points open at the time. This seems to me to be an opinion that was commissioned in 2004 for precisely this government template, at the University of Linz in Upper Austria. This opinion deals exclusively with the government template. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, however, two years have gone into the country! We have negotiated – I admit, perhaps a little too long – but we have negotiated well. And you should consider the amendment... – If you just shake your head collectively, that doesn't mean that's what you say, ladies and gentlemen! [[Members of the Greens shake their heads.]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Finally, look at the amendment! There is something completely different inside than you claim, ladies and gentlemen, to the very end. What really surprises me with the greens is the following: When we passed the Ecostrom Act 1, you were against it because it was a bad law because it was too far-reaching because it did not help to break through renewable energies in that country. – So the words of the Greens to the Ecostrom Act 1. And now? – Apparently only because we are in the election year, you shed bitter tears for a law that is now being modified accordingly. We have decided – I admit it – with this law, the Ecostrom Act 1, a lot of childhood diseases, because we have just missed the experience. This has led to the fact that the Ecostrom Act 1 was almost impossible to handle for both financial and organisational reasons – my predecessor, Mr. Kopf, has mentioned some examples. I would have liked to see the Minister of State issuing a financing regulation on the basis of this law, which covers the actual need! Someone would probably have gone either to the ECJ, but certainly to the Constitutional Court and the law would have been lifted, the regulation would have been lifted. Then we would have stood in front of a sniper pile. One more argument, Professor Van der Bellen, you have put in; on the topic of hydropower, you have asked: Why promote hydropower? It's technically mature anyway. – I doubt this because I heard the same argument many, many years ago on the subject of wind power. The operators of small hydropower said: Why are you promoting the wind power? This is an ancient technology, and nothing can be improved. If I had believed the words of these gentlemen, then the wind power would not have been promoted in any way. We did not believe this, but we said: We're giving the wind power a chance. The result can be seen. I mean, of course, not all are enthusiastic about the many wind power plants on the Parndorf Plate or other concentrated wind farms in Austria, but from the result can be seen the promotion and the result of the wind power plants. That doesn't matter what we need in addition, so I'm full of you: The promotion of renewable energy sources is inseparably linked to the promotion of energy efficiency and the promotion of energy saving. One makes no sense without the other! If you are aware of my contributions to this subject in recent years, I have been calling for a Tibetan prayer mill for years: Please let us finally do more in promoting energy efficiency and let us see – because a lot has already happened – that we are still promoting energy saving! An annual growth rate of 2 to 3 percent, which is about 2 000 gigawatt hours, I can't pick up anything at all, but we must basically follow the Brussels directive, which is about to result, on the basis of energy efficiency and energy savings, in the consumption of 2020 at the level of 1999. This is a huge challenge, because you can't need a polemic! This is really about serious measures that need to be put in place if we are to achieve such objectives. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We were pleased to have achieved the goal set by the Ecostrom Act 1 not only in 2005 but also over-fulfilled. I would also like to say once again in this context – because it is always presented as if the government parties had pulled the SPÖ on the table during the negotiations on the Eco electricity Act: We have not been pulled over the table, we have dealt very seriously with this matter, and we have negotiated seriously and very hard, but also very fairly. I believe that when the 2006 National Council elections are over – I think, even tomorrow, when we will have passed the law – then the air is wide open, then you can look at this again with a sharp glasses, and you will find that a good law has been substantially improved. A wormhead drop may be these €17 million, which we have covered as an additional contribution. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Minister for Finance takes in about €1 billion a year from the Federal Energy Tax. So what does it mean when we see that the law fits, that it really takes to raise the €17 million from the title of the budget accordingly? Another government will probably trust it, and I am convinced that it will also do so, because it makes sense under the rule, especially in the development of renewable energy sources, which have been so comprehensively regulated. I would like to thank the social partners who have contributed significantly to the preparation of this law, I thank the representatives of the government parties, Mr Head and Mr Hofmann, for the fair, often very hard but constructive negotiations for several years. And I also thank all the representatives of the Ministry, the officials of the Ministry who have repeatedly supported us – otherwise that would not have been possible. [[Abg. Grillisch: The Minister too!]] - I don't want to exaggerate it. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The government template was not exactly the yellow of the egg, but, as has been said, it has in all cases helped us to present today the result I have just discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13509	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Weinzinger reported. You know the Rules of Procedure: Facts against facts, without political assessment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13534	Mr President. Mr Oberhaidinger claimed that I would have said in my speech that in 2004 the SPÖ would have held that the SPÖ would not agree to the Ecostromgesetz-Novelle, namely the one from 2004, which is said to have changed in the meantime. I'm actually correcting: I quoted the following sentence from a press release by the party chairman Gusenbauer: ‘The SPÖ will never agree to reductions in the promotion of renewable energy.’ No talk about the novelle!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13567	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13588	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Nor is it a reduction, even though Mrs Weinzinger has claimed that this is a reduction and it remains a reduction. It is this eco electricity law novelle which is the basis for a further increase in expenditure on eco electricity, and that is good, although it is clear that we have put a brake on the unabated growth of expenditure. That is to say, it is about slowing down the rise, but not about a reduction. This is what Mr Gusenbauer has seen in the case – and I do not say that too often – and it is absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Oberhaidinger, we are already accused of having a close relationship. We don't want to harm each other any more. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I am still happy to accept the last words of thanks to me. With regard to renewable energy sources, Austria has nothing to blame for, but we are proud to point this out – and that, I believe, all the political groups are inside here and also most of the Austrians – that we have been putting energy efficiency first and foremost, for decades. We are in terms of energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product among the world's best countries, together with Switzerland, but it has nuclear power. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are also among the top countries in Europe and thus in this world in the field of renewable energy sources. Some 70 percent of the electricity produced comes from hydropower, most of it from large-scale plants, but small plants are becoming more and more important. Overall, this can also be seen in the European comparison: This 70 percent is compared with about 15 percent in Europe. The average in the European Union as regards the share of electricity generation from renewable energy sources is just 15 percent. If the total energy consumption, not just electricity, Austria, with almost a quarter of its energy consumption from renewable energy sources, is also clearly at the top of Europe and – I repeat it – this world. It has already been said: not a reduction, but in reality a further increase – from €3 billion make €4 billion over the next few years! What you have to say time and again: Who's paying for that? This money pays the electricity consumers. Yes, Professor. Van der Bellen, I would also like to say that, as in the case of the social partners who made this proposal, I am referring to this division, to this distribution between industry, industry and households. It is absolutely necessary that we in Austria, in Europe, make progress, that we take care of our energy-intensive economy. We want these companies to continue to produce in Austria, continue to have employees in Austria, with all the spin-offs associated with it. It is important to take care of the company, as well as the company you are addressing in Steinach am Brenner or, for example, the company Fronius, which I know and absolutely appreciate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf has already referred to the sizes, because it is also about saying what eco electricity will cost households in the future. If there are 25 € per average household today and will be 43 € in a few years, namely 2010, that is not small to It is also necessary to discuss and explain this. It is our understanding of politics, Professor Van der Bellen, that we say what it brings and what it costs. One thing I have to say: The fact that you as opposition leader and economists were not once taken into account in your speech the issue of costs has already been raised by you, I found this to be very remarkable. Most remarkable also because it would not be bad for you to say what a kilowatt hour of eco electricity from photovoltaics costs – cost point around 50 Eurocents – and what a kilowatt hour from the one you did not just mention is because technologically no longer cost transferable hydropower, namely about 2 Eurocent. This means that the factor 25 is between them. You have to know. I also believe that in the field of photovoltaics, the end of cost degression has not yet been reached, that there are many possibilities here. We will not invent Austrians alone, as many will participate, and hopefully the day comes when photovoltaics per se produce marketable electricity. Then I'm the first to be happy with you. About 80 percent reduction, which the Greens have shown in these days, probably also knowing that they are the only ones who will vote against today: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what this House will certainly decide with a broad majority today is the basis for the fact that there can be 40 new windwheels in Austria each year, 50 new additional biogas plants and ten new biomass plants. If you like this quantity, honourable Member Van der Bellen, in terms of windwheels, add to your demand – minus 80 percent, that is the reduction you suspect; therefore, five and the whole for the years 2006 to 2011 – that is, you would very much like to see 1 000 new windwheels coming up in Austria at this time. That's what I'm asking myself: How do you keep it with the landscape protection? How do you keep it with the occupation of the Parndorfer plate, once defended by yours, for example, against motorway buildings, with windwheels? – Once you drive from Parndorf to Bratislava/Pressburg, you will see what I mean! This is also an aspect which Mr Oberhaidinger rightly referred to, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. 4 per cent are in the current law, 7 to 8 per cent we are practically already; It's supposed to be 10 percent now. This is a clear extension. I think we're on the right track. It is about further promoting eco electricity in this country. It is also a question of making these technologies as market-oriented as possible. At the same time, however, it is also about finding the right measure for the resulting loads for our electricity customers, for households. Again: This is in the direction of 43 € per household and year, and if we had not put in place the measures – Mr President-in-Office has said so – it went towards 100 € per household and year. It is about not getting into business on business visits, as I do, of course, but about doing so, Professor Van der Bellen, where it says: We work particularly energy intensively, we have to do with cement, we have to do with stone and similar, and with us the energy costs – is very often electricity costs – 20, 25, 30 percent of total costs and eco electricity costs as part of these energy costs often make up another 20.25 percent. In other words, there you have to do with eco electricity costs, which account for a share of the total cost of this Businesses of 5, 6, 7, 8 percent, and that's what's going on. These are cost factors that are relevant for site considerations. So we take care of both: the energy-intensive industry in this country, but also those companies that are very far ahead of technologically in the field of eco electricity, which are given the framework by this law to further expand their important activity for Austria and its jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13674	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13695	Mr President. Federal Minister! Let us turn to the big questions! There is a law here that we have already been critical of, that is true. This had the reason for the fact that there was a test phase before, during which the provisions were already better than then with the law actually introduced. But today, the finding is that with the extension and improvement of this law, we have the opportunity to make a real climate protection law, but with what you are planning here, you are actually adopting an environmental destruction law. Why is that so? Because the opportunities that Austria has for its geographical advantage are simply left out in some areas. It's not like there's so much biomass available everywhere. And as far as hydropower is concerned, it is not true that we already have matured plants in this area and that it would not have to be promoted for this reason, but it is so, although this is a renewable energy source, that the possibility of using the hydropower is nevertheless limited. We cannot guide the Danube and also medium-sized rivers in parallel for a second time. We know the upper limits of the expansion of hydropower. It would therefore be reasonable to do something about the promotions. It is about this economic policy instrument, it is about a funding instrument, we have to confess, we do, you have also done so, at least in parts. It is a question of where to go. This is the big question: In which direction should this instrument be controlled? – Now I would have almost promised and said “disturbed” because that is the disturbance of a good development, what is happening here. That's the main problem. If you're talking about costs here, it's obviously just business costs, it's today. That is exactly why we need to promote this, for example, this cost-degression that you mentioned. That's the one side of the cost. The second side is even more dramatic: Unfortunately, it has now come in fashion, especially under black and blue – all the more painful when you are here from the SPÖ – that good old standards of environmental debate from the 1990s have been buried again. The concept of cost-truth has not occurred in you at all since 2000! If we look at all these things at the table, then the bill looks quite different again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not only the jobs that would be gained in addition if one went into this technology because the corresponding companies in our country could already rise because, for example, domestic agriculture could increasingly feed on an energy raw material with biomass – ‘energy economy’, not more than just farmers. There is also another effect in the bill, and you have to look at what is substituted by what you might have. We would encourage things that would then allow us to refrain from imports of electricity produced from other sources of energy – be it that it is nuclear power, or be it that where it would be, for example, the heat sector or something else, oil could also be better substituted. If more money, even if originally supported, remains in the country, then, of course, it also produces jobs in Austria, not just the immediate ones, through general multiplier effects. This is actually an old wisdom, one wonders why it should not appear right on the spot. This is our access, and it is an economic one and not just an ecological one, but you will not want to agree on it anyway. Since this is about the old debate on the objectives – to the goals supposedly all or, indeed, everyone – and the instruments – and I have to tell you here that you are not doing anything good in the debate on the OMV/Verband-Fusion. What's that about? A background part of the debate is – it comes up anyway –: What does it have to do if the public hand is directly involved with 51 percent of the companies directly receiving and operating power plants? You can be of the opinion that you do not need it, that can also be in private property – if the state makes appropriate framework legislation. But what do you prove? You're on the spot, right? They strengthen those who do not trust environmental protection organisations, for example, and say: I am there public property, protected by constitution, rather, because then at least this and that cannot happen! – You should actually come and say that we are opposed to certain other measures available to the government, the legislator. And every time you prove that you're leaving out on the spot, so is here. From my point of view, there is a connection, and the scepticism against your energy policy is indeed more than right.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13756	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13778	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler raised the question of the direction in which it is directed. - I mean, in the right direction. The original goal was to achieve a 7 percent eco-electrical expansion share by 2010. This share has been increased by this eco electricity law. The share will be 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Amazingly, I found the statements of the first speaker of the Greens, Professor Van der Bellen. I do not put irrationality, but it was at least ignorance about which this speech was based. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply nonsense that there is no acceptance guarantee for eco-electric systems. It is nonsense that there is no more photovoltaics in Austria. Let us be glad that the Upper Austrian company, which is engaged in the field of photovoltaics, has a correspondingly high export share here! Pears and apples have also been mixed together. In connection with the Ecostrom Act, passive houses and low-energy houses were spoken of. Mr Van der Bellen! This has nothing to do with the eco electricity law. Do. I give you the right that it makes sense to support this area as well, but that is not, as we both know, a matter of the eco electricity law. You referred to it: This is the area of housing development. Now in Upper Austria you have a member of the government called Rudi Anschober, his sign of the Environment Council, and I ask you: Why don't you move there if it's too little for you? Why is the funding system not being changed there? Because the ÖVP doesn't go along or why? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious that households and their loads do not matter to the greens. It does not matter, as it is called for without barriers, because it does not depend on efficiency. It is very easy to spend other people's money, that of the electricity users. The current load or the one in 2004 amounted to €24. You, Professor Van der Bellen, spoke of an increase of 30 percent for a small consumer with 1,000 kilowatt hours of annual consumption. – The load will increase even more if you perhaps reduce the small consumer to a consumption of 100 kilowatt hours. The average small household has a consumption of 3,500 kilowatt hours, and here this burden is not given. The promotion of biomass has simply been considered to be stopped without argumentatively and objectively justifying it. That's just wrong. I would really like to see a little more serious in this discussion. In this eco electricity law, we have made sure that not only the plants are built efficiently and efficient, but also that the resources that we use for that which come from the consumers who come from the household and industry are actually used. We have noted that not a repetition of what has already happened, and I have also missed the cry of the Greens: that the investment in wind power plants is being advertised, and a return is promised for a period of ten years of 10 percent. If that is the case, then we know that we have done something wrong, because this is not an efficient use of resources and that is unreasonable for the consumer who has to bear these costs. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: We had an eco electricity share of 412 gigawatt hours in 2002. In 2006, four years later, this eco electricity ratio is 3 550 gigawatt hours. This is an increase of 860 per cent in speech and writing, and this is exemplary for increasing the expansion of eco-energy throughout Europe. We know that we are on a good path, and certainly we are not fooled by arguments that deny any basis!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13841	Next word: Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13862	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I have also brought along a very serious paper, which is a study by university professor Dr. Schneider of the University of Linz, Johannes Kepler University. Let me briefly present the summary. We have experienced a boom through the current regulation that you want to deteriorate: in the form of an increase in gross domestic product, national income and also employment. The investment effects of the eco electricity projects examined in the study have produced an additional GDP of between €2.22 and 3.71 billion, an additional national income of between €1.55 and €2.60 billion and an average employment effect of between 4 300 and about 7 200 people. Please, these are the data: Gross domestic product, national income, employment! Colleagues from the SPÖ, especially at the point “Employment” the knowledge should be sharpened in your mind. You are in favour of employment policy! The ÖAAB of the ÖVP is also constantly talking about employment. It was also a matter of employment in connection with the Eurofighters. – Please, here we have an instrument that is relevant to employment, that is driving the gross domestic product and that increases national income! As a consumer speaker, I am willing to make an average equivalent of half a beer in the restaurant on a monthly basis in addition to contributions because this additional contribution is not a burden on consumers but a guarantee of the future – a guarantee of the future for a sustainable energy source, beyond fossil fuels, beyond nuclear fuels. That is why we need to take precautions now – and not because of short-term so-called economic efficiency areas of 8 percent electricity costs that you, I believe, have addressed, Minister Bartenstein, bring back a truly forward-looking law back to its starting position. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't want to mention the savings in CO2 emissions: 3.6 million tons, please! So this is also about greenhouse gases. In total, I would like to leave the study here, Mr Minister, to speak all the figures for our position. And because our position is, on the one hand, eco electricity, on the other hand, exit from nuclear energy, I would like to ask you to support our motion for a resolution, which I have also personally sent to you, because in a very short time the full deployment of the Temelín nuclear power station is about to take place and because the Milker agreement has not been complied with. I therefore urge you to support us in the sense of a sustainable energy and anti-atomic course. I read this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, this would be a contribution to a future-proof, sustainable energy path: Eco electricity law not as you will decide today, but as it is now – or even better: as in Germany – and a rejection of the CFC policy of neighbouring countries, and compliance with the Milker Agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13953	Mrs Moser's motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mrs Dr. Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the decommissioning of the TemelÃn nuclear power station, consistent action against all new nuclear power plans, termination of billions of subsidies for the nuclear industry and eco electricity instead of nuclear power, is therefore well supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14038	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14059	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling two amendments. First of all, the following request for agenda item 13: [[Quoted print version removed]] Secondly, an amendment to the agenda item 14: Amendment Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, the Gas Economic Act, the Energy Steering Act 1982, the Oil Supply and Reporting Act 1982, the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 and the Competition Act (Energy Supply Security Act 2006) (1411 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (1452 of the Supplements) The provisions on narrow-pass management in relation to the government template or the committee template were further improved and § 69a in respect of the Stranded Costs was deleted, and a passage on recovery possibilities of such unlawfully granted assistance was added. Mr President, I would like to take these two amendments into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14128	Mr Kopf, have these amendments, which have been distributed in writing, been sent to the political groups before?
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14143	They have been sent to the political groups yesterday – with a correction only a number in the eco electricity law, which the Parliamentary Directorate has requested and which has now been made, and a correction of a material type in the supply security law, which is now new, which concerns this Stranded Costs rule – that is, the deletion of § 69a. This is the only correction of a factual nature – the other is the correction of a number designation desired by Parliament's Directorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14164	Thank you very much, honourable Member. – I am now enjoying: The amendment tabled by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law with which the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, the Gas Economic Act, the Energy Steering Act 1982, the Oil Supply and Reporting Act 1982, the Energy Regulation the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 and the Competition Act (Energy Supply Security Act 2006), in 1411 the Supplements as amended by the Committee Report, 1452 of the Supplements, was amended in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG has been distributed to all Members of Parliament, now explained in his key points by the Head of Parliament, and is therefore under negotiation. Furthermore: The amendment tabled by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law that amends the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, the Gas Economic Act, the Energy Steering Act 1982, the Oil Supply and Reporting Act 1982, the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 and the Competition Act (Energy Supply Security Act 2006), in 1411 the Supplements to the Committee Report, 1452 of the Supplements, was also amended in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG distributed, explained in the key points, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14642	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14663	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Van der Bellen, you have highly criticised the new Ecostrom Act here, have greatly praised the old Ecostrom Act here, in all possible details and whether the effects. It's amazing that you used to have this law then, on the 10th. On July 2002, they did not agree on and for themselves – with very similar arguments to those you brought today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] When we look at the law and the present situation, we see that the old law also contained a lid, namely a double lid: on the one hand, with regard to the achievement of the goal and on the other hand, a limitation of the means used. And that's why we don't have to fear an expansion stop through the new law, but why it's been since 31. As a matter of fact, no new plant has been approved since that day, because the old law has been in service. So we are now in a situation where we have an expansion stop that we can only overcome by a new law. In the question of photovoltaics, we have not only had this expansion stop since 31. In fact, it has been since February 2003. With regard to what has been presented here by the Government, the criticism you have expressed is quite true of much of this government proposal. But the changes that have been taking place since then – on the basis of the negotiations that have been held with us – have essentially made exactly those criticism points that you have made out, or at least there has been a clear movement in the right direction. They have talked about photovoltaics in particular and say that nothing is done and that is an important area. – Right: Nothing's going to be done right now. But by this new law, this 15 megawatt lid falls for new plants. And that would be over €80 million in the next eight years – for example, if I want to compare this with the medium hydropower – which will be made available for photovoltaics; at the same time, it is €50 million for the medium hydropower. And that only in the next eight years – but this law is far beyond that! That means, through our negotiation success, there is only money for the photovoltaics at all! One can say that it is too little and one could be even more ambitious, but it is quite moving in a financial framework that I believe can be seen. The aim in the government template was to increase to 7 per cent – we increased this to 10 per cent in the negotiations, increased this target by almost 50 per cent and also achieved the corresponding measures. In the area of wind energy, we increased the target by 50 percent compared to the government template: It can now be promoted by 50 percent more windshields per year than originally foreseen in the government template. And if we look at all the electricity production that is possible in accordance with this law, then that in the government's template was 1 250 gigawatt hours. These changes have doubled this value to 2,500 gigawatt hours! That is, I believe, a success too. This law can be seen in wide areas and has improved. With regard to your criticism of the cost of households: The cost of households is rising – yes, of course, because the volume of funding is increasing. But if you look closely at the government template and what is being decided here today, then you see that it really costs households less money now. We would, of course, have preferred a consumption-dependent supplement, as before, but it is not possible under the law of state aid, so we unfortunately have to introduce a package. Yes, this leads to distortions in that someone who consumes little electricity tends to pay more than someone inside the group who consumes a lot of electricity. But if you look at the network level 7 in which all households are inside, you see that these households not only pay significantly less than they had paid according to the government's template, but in fact also less than they had paid at the time of the agreement in December 2004 – because you are always talking about only part of the cost, namely only over 38 percent of the funding that will be paid over the counter-point fee; but the majority will be charged about the settlement price, and if it is really one-to-one passed on to the different grid levels, then this is actually also a reduction in the cost for households. The point of acceptance is also done. The investors were entitled to say that we want to have a acceptance obligation even after the funding period. They now have them for another 12 years; that is, they usually have a 24-, 25-year-old security that the electricity they produce will also be reduced. I don't know why you're talking about hydropower so bad here. It is a very small support, which takes place here, about half a cent per kilowatt hour, which is promoted by this law and thus also ensures large investments, also jobs. Since Mr Moser has previously assembled that we do not care about jobs: We expect 5 000 new jobs on the basis of this law, and that is certainly in a reasonable area. We have considered this precisely, also across the various areas – not only as regards biomass, but also as regards wind, photovoltaics and, of course, hydropower – have, of course, calculated this precisely, and this is a plus of 5,000 jobs! Overall, I think, this is a law that is quite a compromise – not a question – but if you compare the government template and what is decided today, then you have to say that it is a truly tangible compromise and also a tangible negotiation result and something that you can agree with. If what you say turns out to be what I do not believe, that there will be an extension stop, then of course this law will have to be reconsidered. However, I believe that these development plans and promotion plans, as they are now available, will also be met and that these objectives will also be achieved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14754	Before I give the floor to Mrs Rosenkranz, the following communication: I have previously approved two amendments which have been distributed. In precise studies I found that both were the same applications, so I have twice approved the same application and not the one I should have allowed. But nothing has happened, and I now enact that the second amendment is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I read: The amendment tabled by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann, Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law amending the Ecopower Act, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Regulatory Authority Act (655 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (1225 of the Supplements), has been amended in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17395	Mrs Rosenkranz has now come to speak. Time of speech: 4 minutes if desired. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17416	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The power of power over energy is a political means of power first order, or vice versa formulated: The degree of independence from foreign energy determines the scope for action of one's own policy. This was the last thing we could see – and very clearly – this winter in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. One thing is quite clear: A large amount of energy autarchy is the prerequisite for independent and unimpact political action. And reasonable governments like those of Sweden, for example, have also set themselves the goal of achieving large-scale energy autarchy by 2020. In addition, everyone is aware that fossil energy reserves tend to tend that even with gas this deficit can only be compensated briefly. Wars are now being waged to enable fossil energy to be made available. One thing is quite clear: If we do not want to be delivered to the interests of those who have energy reserves, if we do not want to resort to nuclear power, then we must invest in other areas. In the electricity sector we are already 70 percent in summer, 60 percent in winter almost or largely energy self-sufficient. So it would be a relatively simple thing to increase the 30 percent in this area. This is possible with renewable energy – contrary to the allegations that exist again and again – in order to do just what a responsible government must do, namely to achieve independence in this area – also from the point of view that we know that, of course, energy prices will rise enormously, the more reserves will end up. Against this background, the eco electricity law goes exactly in the wrong direction, because first of all, expansion is not progressing. The Federal Minister has said that there is a need for a brake. Something else would have to be the case: We must set a time limit, just as the Swedish do, and ask ourselves the question: When did we reach 100 percent autarchy in the electricity sector? Moreover, legal certainty will be reduced not only for new installations but also for existing ones, which will not, at least, favour the further expansion of renewable energy. Apart from the fact that it counteracts the autarchy, this law is also unsocial. The attempt to protect the households, which is repeatedly presented as a pretext, is opposed to the fact that the flatrate will at least cause a shift in the costs of the whole large, of industry, to the households. I do not want to talk about the fact that one could naturally have jobs that one does not have, and that, in view of the labour market situation, this is also a behaviour that is not opportunistic and not economic. In addition, this novelle is unecological, because this flat rate means that the energy saver is disadvantaged and that it does not adversely affect those who consume the electricity without care, and that is wrong. But above all, we are concerned with the Energy Authority, and here you, Mr Federal Minister, are showing a commitment that really goes in the wrong direction in different areas. I don't understand – and you have to explain that! – what is meant by not only not only wanting to reach this 30 percent, but also risking the power of disposal where we have the power to do so through the hydropower reserves. And it is quite clear that this happens when it comes to the proposed merger. Everyone knows that if the Republic's share in the OMV/Verband Group is only more than 25 percent plus one, this group is largely privatized and then possibly – and that's just too grotesque! – a majority ownership of this largely privatized group is committed to the Austrian Hydro Power, the Austrian hydropower is of course not in Austrian, but, quite the contrary, is in foreign hands and every foreign intervention is delivered. For us, it is very important that Austria retains its influence on the domestic hydropower potential. It is also important for us not only to maintain the existing independence, but to further enhance this independence. That is why my colleague Bösch and I will not give the FPÖ of this electricity law novelle the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17474	Mr Grillitsch is speaking now. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17496	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we all in this House agree that we face real challenges in energy policy and that we should therefore develop an effective overall strategy for Austria so that we can bring Austria into a sustainable and secure energy future. The profile of such an energy strategy must, as I believe, be that of being environmentally sound, safe to supply, economically efficient and socially sound and, of course, innovating. In particular, we from the Austrian People's Party and from the Farmers' Federation, who have really set up numerous initiatives here in recent years, for example in the area of comprehensive biomass and renewable raw materials. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Farmers' Federation!]] The Farmers' Federation and the Austrian People's Party, Mr. Scheuch! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I personally claim that I have been working intensively on this subject for 20 years. [[Abg. Neudeck: With the peasantry?]] Therefore, I believe it was important to restore planning security and legal certainty to the local operators and operators who are willing to invest and exploit domestic potentials, and this is precisely the content of the current legislation on eco electricity. These people create work with new technologies, make a significant contribution to the environment and thus ensure that there is an independent energy supply. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Professor Van der Bellen! I think that this future of energy deserves more serious access! [[Abg. Neudeck: Van der Bellen is not here!]] I had the impression today, however, that when I saw the old oil tons here in Parliament, the Greens were again moving away from a Rules of Procedure Party to an Ural Action Party! That's not good at your face! With regard to the topic of “renewable energy sources” in view of the future, we have also created a funding law with the aim of increasing the growth of eco electricity law, which provides legal certainty: The green electricity target in the government template from 7 percent has been increased to 10 percent for 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous feed-in rates for existing approved eco-electric systems remain intact. We will also create 1 300 jobs in biomass/biogas. And if we decide to do so today, we also have a duty to decrease once the subsidies have expired for another twelve years at the market price, minus costs for compensatory energy. Ladies and gentlemen! This gives investment operators clear prospects after the expiry of the funding contract. It is therefore essential, as I believe, from the point of view of agriculture that the collective regulation is presented by the competent Federal Ministries as soon as possible and by 1. October 2006 will be able to enter into force so that eco-power plant operators will know what they can expect in the future. I am convinced that this law will provide a basis for the comprehensive future of biomass to be the trump axis of future energy supply.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17565	The next speaker is Mr Steier. He also wants to speak for 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17586	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The new Ökostromgesetz has a very difficult spagate to deal with, as we have heard several times: The aim is to satisfy the interests of the environment, consumers, the economy as well as the economy and to enable the further expansion of eco-electric installations with greater support. This task is extremely demanding in view of its complexity. After lengthy negotiations, as my previous speakers have pointed out, the new eco electricity law has been introduced. It is clear to us that this is a compromise, and every compromise, as we know, also has problems, but in the course of this, they are certainly to be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen! The energy sector has seen major changes in recent years through the liberalisation of energy markets. Permanent burners in the discussion are appropriate rules so that competition, market transparency and market control are given and that customers do not go down in the light of the shareholder value principle. Public majority shares in infrastructure are intended to ensure that security of supply and the quality of energy supply are provided. The current example is the preservation of the public majority in hydropower and power grids in the association of OMV and interconnection. Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, innovation in the energy sector and the promotion of renewable energy are very important. The new eco electricity law will certainly contribute to this. Already the Ökostromgesetz 2002 has led to an approval boom of alternative plants in Austria. The target rate of 4 percent alternative investment by 2008 was thus already achieved in 2005 and That's enough. By 2008, for example, on the basis of current permits for wind and biogas installations, 8 percent are expected, as measured by domestic consumption. However, the very positive development of eco-energy plants has greatly increased the cost of feed-in support and thus also the burden on consumers and the economy, as the necessary funding for alternative plants is, as I said, applied by all consumers in the form of network surcharges. The burden from the average household eco electricity law is qualified with 25 €, and the new Ecostrom Act further supports alternative investments. A 10-percent funding target for alternative installations will be set up by 2010, as measured by domestic electricity needs, from public supply, and it is definitely and important to note that the funding will not be reduced, but more money will be spent on green electricity: In 2008 there will be €415 million instead of €375 million, in 2010 €390 million instead of €315 million and 2012 €315 million instead of just €250 million. Ladies and gentlemen! We stand by this eco electricity promotion law because it is an important milestone in development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17634	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes of welcome; But you can also speak for 20 minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17666	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there have already been enough previous speakers to discuss the importance of the law and the importance of the eco-strom. This is, of course, beyond doubt. It has already been said – and I think that will also be a reason why the Greens here signal rejection – that it has been negotiated too long. In pre-election periods, however, it probably also needs polemics and polarization; on this subject I would like to be separate again later. I would like to thank our chief negotiator, Maximilian Hofmann, who is certainly negotiating in the interests of the Austrians and who, together with the ÖVP and SPÖ and the Government, has created a broad basis, which has certainly produced a balanced result. Under the difficult conditions, a clear commitment to renewable energy has been made, but also to ensure that it is possible to achieve something from the funding point of view. Positive aspects have already been mentioned. I think it was a very important step in the distribution of the various areas, that one also tried to limit individual areas such as biomass, biogas, wind and photovoltaics in quantification, so that one could also get wider space for other projects. From my personal point of view, however, wind energy still has too high a share. I personally would have wanted more biomass and more biogas, because one can work more successfully in this area, I think, for the future. It is also positive to say that, contrary to the opinion of my former colleague Barbara Rosenkranz, there is no intervention in existing projects. This means that existing projects are not affected by the new novel and are, of course, financed. Moreover, the fact that it has succeeded to increase the target from 7 percent to 10 percent, is also positive. But of course there is also criticism from my point of view. Mr Grillitsch somehow put this on me with the Farmers' Federation, so I made the call. From a far-reaching point of view, the policy that has been taken place here in Parliament has been very strongly criticised by this law in professional representations. Especially at the last Chamber, there was a request from the Federal Farmers' Government – I think it is the same farmers' association that you are speaking of – in which he clearly opposes this law, demands higher tariffs and a longer term, and of course also suggests that you should re-adjust in other areas. The very broad consent of the SPÖ also does not apply to the whole SPÖ. There is also a SPÖ's request, which is even more strongly formulated, in which it is clear that this law is to be rejected – probably now especially for the Carinthian SPÖ delegates – because of the fact that critical points also had to be illuminated here. There were technical criticisms at several corners and ends, but more or less possible promotion of medium-sized hydropower plants, although it could actually work efficiently, in the indirect promotion of hydroelectric power stations... [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the difference between the peasantry and the peasantry!]] You will take note of my voting behaviour in the finale! The whole of this means a deterioration of the situation for farmers. Even if there is a fundamental commitment to this promotion, the result of the occupational representation of farmers is a significant deterioration, and for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to give my consent to this law as a farmer's professional representative.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17715	The next speaker is Mr Preineder. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17736	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Before I deal with the real issue, I would like to introduce a small print error correction: In the amendment to the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, it is said to be “lit” in paragraph 10. (b) instead of “lit. (c)’ is hot. - Please take it with you. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Ökostromgesetz 2002 was a success story. This law has allowed 164 biomass power plants, 323 biogas plants, 636 wind turbines and 3 310 photovoltaic plants to be installed. Mr Van der Bellen is no longer here, but I would like to stress that: If one demands photovoltaics, one should also tell the consumer that there is a very high volume of funding needed here and that photovoltaics in the billing cost 60 cents, i.e. the tenfold of the market price, which is less than 6 cents. This should also be communicated to consumers if they are to push for even greater expansion opportunities in this area. 100 000 households could be supplied with electricity from renewable energy, and the share of electricity from renewable energy was increased to 7 percent. This is an opportunity for agriculture and forestry! In Lower Austria alone, 1 million solid meters of wood and 20 000 hectares of electricity were produced in the forestry sector. used in the biogas sector. – I believe that after it was a successful law, the Greens would also like to have been there in the decision-making process. The goal that we set ourselves with this law was achieved very quickly. This led to a standstill in 2004 and changes in the application mechanism were necessary. And there was a desire that the increase in expansion be planned. However, a change requires a two-thirds majority, and a two-thirds majority means compromise, and this compromise is very strong in promoting combined heat and power. However, it is important that we continue the course that it does not remain at the standstill, but that there is a clear new planning possibility for plants. The cornerstones have been announced. The amendment also made it clear that existing installations are not affected by any change and that there is a acceptance obligation at the market price for all installations running through the support regime. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With this novelle it is possible to plan and also build new plants. I call on the competent Federal Ministries to order speedy feed-in tariffs at the appropriate level. With this innovation, we increase the share of electricity production to 10 percent and reduce CO2 taxation by 2 million tonnes. I would like to see myself in other areas of energy supply – whether in the heat sector, where we only have a 15 percent share of renewable energy, or in the fuel sector, where we only have a 3 percent share of renewable energy – a 10 percent increase. I think we are on the road well with this law in the field of electricity and electricity production, and I do not hope that the Greens will have to say in a recast 2011 that they would have liked to take this decision today!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17787	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17809	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the statements made by the many previous speakers, who have referred to this law here, it can be seen that we have established a very good and comprehensive eco electricity law. In addition, if a two-thirds majority is needed, more discussions need to be held, but the discussions are not always easier, but are still very efficient. In this regard, I should like to thank all those who have conducted the negotiations – and I have partly followed them in terms of content – for having come to a very reasonable whole law after these difficult negotiations, and, of course, even more energy efficiency and energy saving should not be entirely disregarded in all of these matters. But I would also like to stress that a very wide clientele has to be used here: This law took into account the combined heat and power, which is very important in urban areas, but it also took into account the rural areas, and it also included small hydropower and many other areas such as wind or photovoltaics in this law accordingly. Let me just show by one example how this law also contributes to other energy areas, namely biogas. Biogas, that is what the Federal Minister said, will receive a promotion with which – if I do so have been correctly remembered – in about 50 more plants will be created and promoted. Meanwhile, biogas can also be fed into natural gas pipelines. It is also very useful to continue the chain: The industry is in the process of installing gas filling stations, natural gas taps. In the end, it can be said that biogas can be transported to the motor vehicle and therefore, of course, can still operate in combination with natural gas very environmentally friendly vehicles. For example, there are pilot projects specifically in cities where the waste disposal, which produces a lot of CO2 from the diesel and fine dust, is targeted at these gas fuels. This has also been negotiated with the police, the post office and the taxi industry in order to operate environmentally friendly all those vehicles, especially in the population-rich districts and cities. I think we can certainly agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17848	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17869	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The key word at the end of the debate is – I think – the main reason for this today's novel to the Ecostrom Act: It is the energy efficiency tailored to time and the energy saving. That's where we're all required. These are the great challenges to present a reformed law with the Ecostrom Act today, whereby one can claim to have made nails with heads. Of course, it is a matter of course of planning security and legal certainty, especially for the producers of renewable energy and green electricity in that country. This applies especially to rural areas, and it is primarily our farmers who manage this raw material and in the future they will also be more efficient in finishing it. That means that we also need to ensure that we are on the right horse. To this end, it is simply necessary that we in this House make this necessary adjustment by law. It has already been said a lot. I just want to remember that there is already great progress in the law. I would like to repeat this: There are 50 new biogas plants per year, 40 new biomass plants and 40 new wind turbines. This is just an increase in support, implemented per year, which is produced more in alternative energy, in renewable energy in that country. Of course, this change will further promote eco electricity. Overall, this change of law has taken into account the very encouraging development in Austria – comparatively in Europe, but also worldwide – and it has a certain appreciation with this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the right place and this law that is not the right opportunity to agree on or not to agree on certain circumstances, as I have heard from Mr Scheuch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It's also a pity for the greens. In my opinion, it is also a veritable opportunity for the Greens to position themselves in this area, to get involved and to have a positive impact on some development of renewable energy for the future in Austria. It would have been possible if one would only have the will and not only would one always preach water and drink wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17924	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17945	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, the Greens wanted to be greener today than all the other parties represented in Parliament. If this is the case here, I am surprised that you are always so generous about the reception euphoria in the EU: on the one hand with Turkey and on the other hand with Ukraine. Considering that ten nuclear power plants have been approved in Ukraine, you should consider carefully, Federal Minister Bartenstein, whether Ukraine has something to look for in the EU at all. That's the first one. [[Abg. Sburny: Do you think that will be better if they are not there? France out of the EU, or what?]] Second: This law, Mrs Colleague, may not be the yellow of the egg, but it is a good start when, for example, more than 800 percent of green electricity is produced. I would also like to thank my chief negotiator, Oberhaidinger, who has incorporated the points of social democracy into this law. Energy waste: I think we all know that power generation is only necessary for the stand-by operation of computers or televisions – but we stay with the computers – a power plant in Austria. I would be surprised if I could now look into all clubs and not run all computers on stand-by mode – even with the greens. The efficiency of photovoltaics, which will naturally develop positively, is 25 percent. The efficiency of hydropower is 60 percent to remain true to costs, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Of course, all major variants of energy security should be examined. The German Federal Government demands and promotes geothermal projects. These are, I think, not included here, but the German Federal Government is spending €200 million on geothermal promotion. The topic of hydropower: It was said that this was an old energy generation. Ten projects, Mrs Colleague, are planned, are in the drawer. With this new law, these hydropower plants can be built in Austria. We are proud of this because we are always talking about Austrian hydropower. I do not think hydropower is an old technology, but rather, contrary to the opinion of the Greens for Austria – and Austria is a water-rich country – for a future technology. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] I think, in summary, that we should work together on energy policy. Of course, we see this in the sign of the beginning of the election campaign that the Greens want to be greener than all the parties represented in Parliament. I think this eco electricity law is a good one. It cannot always be complete, but we are happy to agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17986	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18007	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria's energy policy is based on the guiding principle of sustainability. The Federal Government acknowledges itself in its coalition agreement on the objectives of a sustainable energy policy. In this context, energy policy conditions must be appropriate to achieve the objectives of economic efficiency, security of supply and environmental and social impact. In particular, the situation in the global energy markets is relevant for the objectives of economic efficiency and security of supply of energy supply in Austria. The previous eco electricity law creates a brilliant upturn in the Austrian energy supply. The objective of 4 percent eco electricity was already achieved in 2005. Many farmers have been able to create a second level of energy production from biomass, and the production of green electricity is now an important economic factor. On the basis of the current scheme alone, 5 400 jobs are created, especially in rural areas. The new novel to the Eco electricity Act is the result of lengthy negotiations involving all relevant social partners and decision-makers in order to find consensus on a broad basis. The law lays down the share of electricity generation from renewable energy sources of 10 percent by 2010. In future, the apportionment of the funds shall be as follows: 30 percent for wind energy, 30 percent for biomass, 30 percent for biogas and 10 percent for photovoltaics and others. It is essential that a new regulation with feed-in tariffs for eco electricity with acceptable tariffs be presented as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I was somewhat surprised today by the remarks made by Professor Van der Bellen. He was happy to tell us that he visited a factory that produced photovoltaic cells. – Professor, we live in 2006. My home community received the “Austrian Solar Prize” in 1995. With regard to photovoltaics, unfortunately I must tell you that unfortunately much water will still run through the Austrian hydroelectric power plants before the photovoltaics are competitive.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18053	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18075	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the debate in the afternoon has brought the President of the Federal Farmers' Party of the ÖVP to the fore. He said that Austria needs a comprehensive energy strategy. I would like to remind you that since 1986 – for 20 years! – the ÖVP presents the Minister of Energy! Why has it not been able to put a comprehensive strategy on its feet so far? – This is the question to be answered here. The longest-serving energy minister since 1986 is Minister Bartenstein at 6 years and 3 months, who was second-ever German Chancellor Schüssel. [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the ÖVP]] Where is this overall strategy? What's your balance? Security of supply in Austria has decreased, production has been reduced. Look This is what you're looking at: Many power plants have been closed, and the other areas have not led to compensation. According to reports, Draxler wants to move the company to RHI because the power supply is not secure. He wants to make an investment stop! Or: Infineon in Villach has a production failure of € 3 to 5 million per year! The line is in Agonie! – 20 years of ÖVP energy policy in Austria. Recently, Dipl.-Ing wrote. Kaupa – you have to listen to this –: The steiric power supply is already hanging on the silk thread, already threatened in winter power shut-offs. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] - You have to think about it! Just in the Steiermark! So, Minister: Your House of Cards Stromliberalization has also collapsed! These €900 million savings have mainly benefited the Minister of Finance: 380 of €900 million. That's your energy policy! 5 500 employees in the electricity industry have been dismantled. [[Abg. Grill: What does the Voves say?]] Look You're looking at these numbers! They have also managed to make Austria from the electricity exporter to the electricity importer country. That's your energy policy! – Today’s laws, of course, help to improve this, but they do not yet give the answer. Finally, Mr. Minister, a personal question to you: How do you explain to the Steirers the failure of your energy policy? or – the second question to you, microeconomically –: How safe is the energy supply for your company in Styria? You have to explain this to your wife. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18129	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Before entering the voting process, I interrupt the sitting and ask the club members to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18161	I'll start the interrupted session again. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the discussions with the club members was that, in relation to the comprehensive amendment to the Eco electricity Act tabled by my colleague, I ordered the reproduction and distribution, the request was also explained in its core points, but not yet available to the honourable Member in writing. I do not like to vote on a request that Members do not know. I therefore postpone the vote in agreement with the political groups. The proposal will come in the next few minutes, but I am still advocating the vote and would go to the next debate – agenda item 16: Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on 2006 - and then vote on this whole area that we have now debated. On the other hand, are objections raised? – No objections are raised. I postponed the vote. [[17:37:10]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1367, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Commercial Code in 1994, the Mineral Raw Materials Act and the Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants (Investment Law Novel 2006) (1451 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18209	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Mrs Sburny has spoken. Your speaking time will be adjusted to 4 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18236	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This innovation in plant law concerns the amendment of the trade regulations, the Mineral Raw Materials Act and the Emissions Protection Act for boilers. This amends the rules governing the authorisation of industrial installations, which are designed to establish such plants in such a way that neither the health of the population nor the environment suffers. But with this novel, you are worsening the current situation in the sense of the population: It would be assumed that you normally have an interest in ensuring that health and environmental protection are right; in this case, this does not seem to be the case. What you now decide is that operating facilities can also be built in areas that are already particularly contaminated – above all air pollutants. We will therefore certainly not be able to agree to this amendment. In concrete terms, you have to imagine this: They have a project for which approval is sought in an area that is already extremely burdened. – Up to now, it was not possible to obtain an authorisation if certain limit values were exceeded; with this novelle it is now possible. For example – and this will probably be the “Lex Spielberg” – is what happened at the A1-ring in Spielberg. The authorisation had to be prevented due to the legal situation because the population there is extremely burdened by fine dust and would have resulted in an additional load from the A1 ring. The project was rejected at the time. With this novelle, the project would be approved, regardless of the burden on the population. We think that this is a mistake, because you can't say – as it is now regulated in the novelle – that: Well, there you can increase the fine dust load extremely; at some point and somewhere, in another place, this load has to be reduced. – That’s de facto that which is contained in this law – and that really can't be in your mind, but it can't be in the sense of the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the second point, which we are in principle positive, we are dealing with the reporting obligations of companies in terms of noise emissions. We believe it is in principle good that this reporting obligation is enshrined. This also refers to an EU directive; in that respect, you must also anchor this reporting obligation by law. However, what is strange is the following: The noise levels which a plant has must be reported, but only after approval. That means, first, the operation is approved – and only then is it reported how much noise there is. They do not, of course, make it possible that, for example, people can also speak and decide, because they unfortunately know nothing before, but only know about it in the afterlife. The second thing that is quite strange is that you don't turn on any experts, but rely solely on what the company says. The law does not provide for a regulation as to how the authority is to act and whether there is a very clear examination with experts or institutions. There are no clear instructions in the law. That is, on both points we see a further deterioration for the population. That is why we cannot accept this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18307	Mr Ledolter is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18328	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Sburny, I find it distressing and sad that you are putting into the world, with better knowledge from the speaker's mouth, allegations that are not voting in the text of the law. [[Abg. Sburny: Of course they're right!]] [[Abg. Oils: But you don't look sad three!]] I am only allowed to keep in mind the good order that this federal government is making a policy consistent with people, a policy for people! [[Abg. Sburny:... another law!]] Not only do people need good air and clean water – which is probably undisputed – but they also need jobs, and therefore they also need businesses and income, Mrs. Sburny! [[Abg. Sburny: But not where...!]] That is why a policy has been announced with a great deal of attention and is necessary, but not the line that you represent and that is always saying: it is all too little and all too late!, and it is always with bans and restrictions, with bans that do not promote, but hinder, with ideologically instigated economic hostility, which has not lost anything here. [[Abg. Sburny: The health is ideological?]] I just want to make two things clear. You know very well that, on the one hand, at the noise generation level, the plants have a reporting obligation and that the Authority is conducting the plausibility test. You know very well that in the case of fine dust pollution compensatory measures are required by the authority: precisely at the moment when maximum limits are exceeded. I cannot do this in detail now because the President has limited my voluntary speaking time by 2 minutes. But it would be a special debate, which would be quite worthwhile, because the law expressly contains regulations that ensure that the people, the peoples, but also the economy will have their right and that Austria's economic location is preserved and not undermined, just as you always want.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18424	Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member Hoscher also speak for 2 minutes. The reason for the short speeches is that I would like to put this difficult late vote to effect myself. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned above, this innovation in investment law primarily serves to implement Community legislation, in particular as a result of the Environmental Noise Directive. Secondly, current as well as planned measures in the field of Immission Protection Act Air should be taken into account. This novelle – it has already been mentioned – concerns, among other things, the approval arrangements and the reorganisation provisions of industrial plant law. In doing so, it seems very important to me that according to § 77 para. 3 Z 2-New of the Industrial Code Authorisations should only be granted if the additional contribution of the plant or extension of the plant to the immission load is limited to the technically possible, but in particular to an economically reasonable extent. I think it is precisely this economic feasibility that has to be taken into account, because, I believe, between additional requirements and the economy of the company, balance has to prevail – all the more so than the obvious requirements will probably go beyond the state of the art in some cases. This can certainly bring serious threats to the operation in individual cases. Since the plant owner may best estimate the proportionality of the business economy, it is also very useful, in my opinion, to provide for his cooperation in the assessment according to § 77 of the commercial regulations, because on the one hand, existing technical possibilities must not remain unused – I believe that we are all agreed – but on the other hand, they must not be exceeded. This very principle of economic visibility plays an essential role in a number of areas of industrial policy. I should like to remind you, in this context, that our group has long ago tabled a request for the revision of the trade regulations in the field of the modification of small-scale plants. In terms of content, it is also a question of preventing, in the event of a change in plant facilities or the acquisition of holdings, conditions which are not economically reasonable. In contrast to this novel, which we will agree with, with unanimity with the government parties, our request will not, as usual, even be put on the agenda in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I think we should discuss this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18497	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft is intended to implement the European Environmental Noise Directive. The operators of mining plants subject to the IPPC regime are required to provide information on noise protection. In addition, this draft provides for adaptations to the Immissions Protection Act Air, which has been fully revised in the framework of the Environmental Adjustment Act 2005 already adopted. I hope, Mr President, that I have not exceeded my two minutes, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18549	Next word: Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18570	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to take a closer look at noise protection in Austria. It is a longer story, starting in the European Union, and I believe that it is also the favour of the hour that the Republic's last prime minister of the environment has been sitting on the government bank and that this legislation has played a major role both in Europe and in Austria: 1996 the Green Paper; 2002 the adoption of the Directive at the level of the European Union; the obligation to implement it by 2004 was no longer met by the Minister for the Admission Environment in Austria; 2005 Austrian legislation. We did not agree at the time, we pointed out the confusion of competence. We have also pointed out, Mr Federal Minister, that it will be very difficult to obtain this data. Today's law gives right to our then concerns. The data collection is necessary. Noise is one of the essential criteria for our population, but also for businesses. Farms need a concentrated environmental law, and businesses need a concentrated plant law. Anyone who was once busy bringing together the necessary documents for an ISO-14000 certification knows what I am talking about. We demand the management of legal compliance. Let's also give him the chance to live it! – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18607	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18628	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no question that we are interested in improving air quality in burdened areas. However, it cannot be possible for installations to be approved in burdened areas, especially if the state of the art is first observed and the additional loads are irrelevant. In addition, if the additional loads are actually relevant, we would like to allow approval if the first thing goes beyond the state of the art and, secondly, the corresponding compensatory measures are put in place. This is a bill which, I believe, is practical and secures the location of Austria, but which is nevertheless appropriate to further improve air quality in loaded areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18660	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1451 of the Supplements; that is the novel investment law. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – The request is the majority of the House and is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign on this point. – This is also accepted by the majority at third reading. [[17:51:28]] Vote on agenda items 13 to 15
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18701	Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the postponement of the vote on the Novelle Eco electricity Act, on item 14 of the agenda and on item 15 of the agenda: The Federal Act amending the Supply Security Act. This is a complicated voting process. First of all, the Ecocurrent Act: As regards the draft concerning a federal law amending the Eco electricity Act, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Regulatory Authority Act – Eco electricity Act Novelle 2005 – there is a referral request from Members Dr. Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on whom I shall vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of referral back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, namely to refer the item of negotiation back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. – The application remains in the minority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the eco electricity law, the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Regulatory Authority Act – Ecostromgesetz-Novelle 2005 – in 1225 of the supplements. Mr Kopf, Mr Hofmann, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Since the present bill and the amendment or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, Mr Hofmann, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr President, receive constitutional provisions, I shall first put them in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members, Mr Kopf, Mr Hofmann, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted with the necessary two-thirds majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is adopted by a majority, with two-thirds majority, which I expressly see. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the decommissioning of the Temelín nuclear power plant, on a consistent action against all new nuclear energy plans, on the end of billions of subsidies for the nuclear industry and on the environment instead of nuclear power. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the 2006 draft Energy Supply Safety Act in 1452 of the Supplements. Mr Kopf, Mr Hofmann, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. That is the request we have been waiting for; it has now been distributed and there has been sufficient time to study this request. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Since the present draft law, as well as the amendment or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, Mr Hofmann, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr President, contain constitutional provisions, I first of all note the presence of the constitutional number of Members. A written error correction already taken into account in the original application has been made at Z 10, in which it is called ‘46 lit c’ ‘46 lit b’ instead of ‘46 lit b’. In view of the fact that only this one request and this print error correction have been submitted, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment amendments tabled by Members Kopf, Hofmann, Oberhaidinger, colleagues and others. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is adopted unanimously and therefore with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted at third reading and therefore with the two-thirds majority as provided for in the Constitution. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Supply Security Act, including the title and receipt in 1419 of the Supplements. Since this draft law contains a constitutional provision, I shall first of all determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is also done unanimously and therefore with the required two-thirds majority. [[17:57:47]] 17. Point Report by the Economic Committee on Amendment 830/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Detlev Neudeck, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1998 Law on Economic Chambers (1450 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18872	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. – I would also ask the Minister not to make a telephone call on the Bank of Ministers. The debate is opened by Mrs Sburny. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18902	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the subject of the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce Act. I deliberately say “change” and not “reform” like the government fractions, but also the SPÖ, because from our point of view it is not a reform, but in reality a completely inadequate response to the challenges in a completely changed economic world. If, for example, the bakerry is combined with the confectionery, then that is all right, but it is certainly not the key to the reform which would be necessary in the Chamber of Commerce and which would also deserve this name. The Chamber of Commerce, like the ÖGB, seems to be somewhat reform-resistant in terms of the structures. [[Abg. Neudeck: No, no! Please!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Look at it: Mr Kopf said in committee that the economic structures would be represented by this reform. – I can only tell you that I can only hope that this is not so, because then it is bad about the economic structures in Austria. You have to imagine this: In the Chamber of Commerce there are 1 300 bodies with 17 000 officials. [[Abg. Neudeck: They all work volunteerly and without pension contracts!]] In the case of a very small reform, you are talking about a reform in which the “Economic structures of Austria are pictured”. – I don’t think this is really a model for a modern economy. The citizen society is probably your own official for every business, is it? [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you talking to me, Mrs. Sburny?]] In addition, there is still a right to vote, in which there is almost a right to vote, to be re-enforced once again. That is to say, there is no direct choice of the bodies at the national or federal level, but still practically an accounting from the lower level, from the sections up to the Federal Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Neudeck: Austria Chamber of Commerce – you are still in the old law!]] – The Austrian Chamber of Commerce at the federal level if it pleases you. – This is about as if one were to turn the municipal election result to the National Council election result. Perhaps that would be a pleasure for the ÖVP, I can imagine, but would certainly not be in line with the will of the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this way, there are extreme distortions between industries and countries, so that a voice in different countries is worth a lot different. A vote in the Chamber of Commerce can be worth up to 300 times as much as another vote. And that's what you call democracy?- Oh, my God! [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A third point that is also particularly disturbing to us is that there is still no passive right to vote for entrepreneurs, i.e. business chamber members with non-Austrian citizenship. I think this is particularly a pity, because the Chamber of Economics is beyond the fact that it is democratic and open, is also always a European open-minded one and that the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitel, will not tire of maintaining all kinds of good contacts. That is what we are admitting. Why, however, then, entrepreneurs in Austria, just because they do not have citizenship, should not be a member of the Chamber of Commerce... [[Abg. Neudeck: What membership do you think?]] Why they should not be passive in the election of the Chamber of Commerce, I am absolutely sluggish and not comprehensible! I find a reason to be very terrible, namely that only someone in whose country of origin has democratic rules of play. That is why an entrepreneur working in Austria must not vote in the election of the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why can't he choose?]] First of all, you have to explain to me what this has to do with a background – except for that, at least not to be particularly open. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So what we need – and we also propose a resolution – is a radical streamlining of the structures. We need modern, market-oriented industry clusters and a complete electoral system. Our motion for a resolution refers primarily to this electoral rule. We want there to be a direct election of the economic parliaments according to the right to vote, with the seven sections, as it were, electing groups. We want the composition of the branch conferences and the trade union committees to be carried out on a national and national basis according to the number of votes. And we also want, among other things, a passive right to vote for all Chamber members, including those with non-Austrian citizenship. As I said, This change is certainly not a reform that would correspond to a modern economic location – and this does not meet the challenges of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19044	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sburny is sufficiently supported and is also explained in its main points. I therefore leave him according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to be distributed; with this he is also in the process of negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19137	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19158	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The Economic Chambers' Organisation is pleased with its 350 000 members' very high acceptance. This is always tested: In the case of surveys by the members, well over 70, almost 80 percent of the members are satisfied with this organisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's no wonder either: The Economic Chamber Organisation is highly effective in representing the interests of its members – and it also regularly and consistently adapts to the necessary needs in its structures. Thus, in 2000, when a first reform initiated by President Leitel at the time in the Chamber of Commerce and also carried out, members were allowed to enjoy a 30 percent reduction in their contributions, while at the same time significantly increasing the performance of this organisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, every five years before each election to the Chamber of Commerce and its bodies, a catalogue for the trade organisation structure of the Economic Parliament is to be decided. Of course, it can be imagined that an organization set up in width with 128 specialist organizations, just as each organization has a certain persistence: in its old structures. – With this law, we are now creating the requirement that the Chamber Organisation be required to review its organisational structure before this decision takes place every five years and to consider whether it is actually still representing the real economic structures outside its structures. This simply happens and simply in the way that one looks at the number of members, different other parameters, the economic importance of the individual industries and so on, in order to determine whether there should continue to be a separate professional organisation structure for this or that sector, whether it should be combined with another or whether new sectors should, of course, also arise, because new ones are created. The goal is that we make from the 128 – admittedly: a broad organization – about 80 organizations and units, that is, we compact and concentrate this structure by a whole third. To call the “cosmetic corrections ” is just ridiculous! This is a clear, almost a step beyond a evolutionary step beyond reform, a second step in the reform of this organisation, a step of reform that we are very, very proud of. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] The large and broad agreement also in this House shows that once again, as was the case with another legislative matter before, you believe that you have leased the wisdom and only know what is happening, while obviously 90 percent of this House believe that the way the Chamber of Commerce is going – and in this case I apologize for the comparison with the ÖGB – is a real one, a good one, a forward-looking one for the Austrian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19224	Next, Mr Matznetter. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19246	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can do it briefly. We have already discussed this for a longer time in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Point one: The reform process of the Chamber is more continuous. We will take another step forward with this change of law today. There is no doubt that in the area of democratisation, the Economic Union also wanted to achieve more than what is now available here. We did one thing: We stayed in the negotiations, and it was very sad that Mr Plass of the Green Economy had unfortunately come back to the heury when the decision-making process in the Economic Parliament was in progress. However, we have achieved something in time, namely... – No, I have discussed this with him in the Economic Parliament. [[Abg. Sburny: That's pretty subjective now! They didn't invite him!]] Mrs Sburny, we have achieved something, namely that in the middle levels of the Chamber of Commerce, minority mandates will also be introduced for the representations between specialist organisations and the Economic Parliament; a small piece in the right direction. I am pleased that, although it did not look like that, a further step has been taken in the area of democratisation of the Chamber of Commerce. I would like to admit that much further goals, including direct elections of the Economic Parliament, are also included in our demand catalogue – we have also presented it – and we will stick to these goals. In this sense, however, a step has been taken forward. We have today agreed to a mini-SMEs package because it is at least one step in the right direction. [[Abg. Oillinger: A step at best!]] Now we are taking a right step in the economic chamber reform. We agree. And with the next one, this house will also deal with itself. It is a permanent task, and I would also like to see the Chamber of Commerce organization “Happy Up!” in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19294	Next, Mr Neudeck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19315	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present bill, which amends the Chamber of Commerce Act, a big step is certainly being taken in the right direction. If the Greens do not agree with this, I have to give Mr Matznetter the right point: The Green Group chairman in the Chamber of Commerce also said in the Economic and Social Committee that he refused to attend the meetings, because more than bubbles on the back would not have looked out – that was, I believe, literally his report. It is also true that I repeatedly see in the Committee's protocols that the Greens do not only come to the meetings – that can happen before – but also do not apologise or have not been occupied by a lot of mandates they have achieved. [[Abg. Sburny: In which bodies?]] In the bodies at country level, at federal level, in the pension fund... – Yes, the green economy of course, in the Chamber of Commerce, yes. [[Abg. Sburny: These are not the greens!]] We are now talking about the Chamber of Commerce and not about the.... – Okay, I take note of the distance from the Green Economy by the Green Group here. [[Abg. Sburny: This is not a removal, but a concreteization!]] Mrs. Colleague, you're right. I would also like to keep in mind that you compare the Austrian Chamber of Commerce with the ÖGB in some form. On the one hand, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is the responsible organisation of entrepreneurs; the ÖGB is a voluntary association, because, I believe, it is no longer a company. So if, then we compare the Chamber of Labour with the Chamber of Commerce to stay in the same category – and not the ÖGB. With this law, exactly what you mentioned is done in the right direction, when they said that we have too many bodies, too many bodies. Now one may discuss whether this 80 is a sacred number, but it gives one direction once. Maybe you'll have to give it to one or the other. It's just the lawmaking right now. This law then in a difficult environment to implement in a very persistent environment – as Mr Kopf has said – then to give it meat and blood, which is the task of the next few years. There's only a foundation stone being laid here, a launch shot is given. But one thing I would like to hold on to in order to save the many thousands of officials, as you said correctly: In contrast to the ÖGB, there are no pension contracts for officials in the WKO, in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and in the Chambers of State. There is only an effort compensation for a very small percentage of officials, travel costs, a compensation for work that ends at the end of their activity. So there are no repayments, no pension contracts, and there are no penthouses. It is therefore certainly also the right place to thank the officials of the Chamber of Commerce organisations for their mainly volunteer work for the Austrian economy. And I note once again that the greens are distance from the green economy. This is a real step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19382	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions: 2 minutes; first of all, the facts to be corrected, then the facts to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19406	Mr Matznetter said that the speaker of the Green Economy did not come to the negotiations. I'm actually correcting: The spokesperson of the Green Economy, Volker Plass, was not invited to the negotiations of President Leitl after he had clearly deposited his concern that he was also the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19437	Mr Steindl was mentioned as the next speaker. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19458	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Chamber of Commerce! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Mrs Sburny, I very much appreciate you as a quiet and objective colleague, but you have no idea of representing interests in the industrial economy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] As a craftsman for trades and trades in my federal state of Salzburg, I see this reform somewhat more differentiated, because of course I am associated with the extensive work of these officials every day. I can also express my heartfelt thanks to these officials at this point, because they make their activities most of the time voluntary – and this voluntary activity is so important in many areas. I am thinking in this context, for example, of wage and collective bargaining or of apprenticeship training, of graduation examinations, of the Master Audit Committees and much more, of the Commission's meetings and of everything else. That's just a small part I'm going to list here. Nevertheless, I am also sure that there is a constant need for changes in large organisations in order to ensure the necessary efficiency. However, I am also pleased that the enlarged Bureau of the Federal Chamber of Commerce will be careful and careful about this reform work and, in line with the sectoral representations, will define the new sectoral figures and representations. Again: I think that the officials, especially the innkeepers, the section presidents who have historically founded this chamber, should be involved and that a good solution can be found together for all parties involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19500	Mr Neudeck spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you too know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19525	Madam President. Mrs Sburny said in her speech that non-Austrian entrepreneurs in the Chamber of Commerce were not entitled to vote. – This is incorrect! [[Abg. Sburny: I didn't say that! It's about passive voting rights!]] Then look at the record of your speech! You said: They are not allowed to choose – and you did not say: These must not be chosen. If you're small at Plass, who said: If he had been sitting there, he would have only gotten bladders on his buttocks, then we are small too, therefore: Entrepreneurs who are not Austrian citizens may also choose in the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19564	The next speaker was Mr Bauer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19586	Estimated President! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I mean, this matter is a relatively broad consensual matter. Of course, it can be the right step for the one and the other, and that is the point of this vote. It can be noted that the path leading to a reduction of professional organisations by one third is a step that must be taken to recognise the corresponding, not always easy, preliminary discussions. It has also been found that there was, of course, a certain degree of persistence in the professional organisations. This reform is necessary – and it is ultimately nothing more than the revision of the failure of the last 2000 reform. – In any case: On this path one must continue to come to what has rightly been addressed, namely an organisational structure which represents a relatively good image of the economy. The second is that there is also an improvement in democracy policy: although not to a full extent, to an extent that is to be recognized. What still seems important to me is the collective agreement membership. It should be noted, however, that agreements between the social partners ensure that they are not affected by changes in professional organisations. Of course, negotiations can be conducted on this and new collective contractual partners can be created by agreement within the meaning of competence. I believe that it is a good step to streamline the organisation of the social partners, and I am also convinced that it is important to have in a state of social partnership, in particular the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers and other stakeholders. – In this sense a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19626	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19647	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned: The reform process of the Chamber of Commerce began in 2000. That was, from the point of view of time, as I mean, long overdue, but it has been done quite successfully. Of course, no one can expect such a reform to be completed within a short period of time. It's actually a pro- six, which continues – and in so far as what is happening with the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce Act is now another step that is necessary and correct. The enlarged Bureau of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, is entrusted with the task of formulating specific criteria for the establishment of professional associations and departments. There will no longer be any possibility that there will be more than one section within a trade union. The Board's Financial Regulation will be given the legal basis for separate accounting groups, for each profession. The proposed amendment also contains numerous clarifications, legal adjustments and editorial improvements. For example – Mr Head has mentioned it – the 128 specialist organisations are currently to be reduced to a scale of about 80. That is, structural changes are taking place. In the context of these structural changes, the financial needs will be identified and, subsequently, one – I am convinced – financial reform will be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19684	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19705	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to remind you briefly that some ten years ago workers' chamber and chamber legislation was completely rewritten and that at that time it was actually a huge legistic achievement and also an excellent performance of the organizational structures and cultures concerned that really rewritten these laws. Of course, at that time this debate on content that is being realized today, such as the reduction of professional groups and the like, shows that large traditional organizations with their structures, with their employees, are often only very slow and laborious to reform with their officials. Of course, on the one hand, it is a good thing that the President and his staff, as well as the Vice-Presidents, are quite reformers who are at work. The fact that we stand here today and implement a next step in reform is due, among other things, to these personalities. I therefore believe that it is a good legislative step that we are taking today, a good small reform, and that we will follow it further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19735	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19757	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to speak again now because I cannot leave Mrs Sburny's accusations in the room. First of all, what progress has been made in the negotiations, Mrs Colleague: Right after the re-constitution after the 2005 Economic Chamber election, we agreed with all political groups that the next reform in the Chamber of Commerce should be dedicated to streamlining the technical organisation structure. Granted, your group has already expressed the desire to speak about the right to vote, but the decision in the Economic Parliament last November clearly aims to ensure that this step is devoted to chamber reform of the restructuring and streamlining of the trade organisation structure. When, in the two-part negotiations, all the political groups, once together with the President, Leitel at a table at periodic intervals, between bilateral negotiations between the candidate groups, in which the political points were concerned, were clear that your group would not agree, if not the right to vote would not be amended, but that it was not the aim of this reform step – but it was absolutely imperative for you to agree that voting rights would also be substantially amended – it was clear that at least we cannot continue bilateral talks. It is perfectly correct, on the other hand, what Mr Matznetter said: that Mr Plass has not been excused for the final discussion to which all the candidate groups were invited, so of course also the Green Group. So what you have corrected here, Mrs. Sburny, is simple and simply wrong. Your group has missed out on these final negotiations. Secondly, They have also accused us of being undemocratic or of being unfairly expensive in terms of voting rights. Of course! We have specialized organisations that have 300 members, we have 30 000 members. How do you want to multiply this for the smallest structure for which you need at least five functionaries to be able to form a body at all with the thousand-fold, what is the thousand-fold, with the ten thousand-fold? Do you know how big the body would be for the largest specialist organization? You won't want to. [[Abg. Sburny: Within the specialized organizations!]] We do not have such a large room in the Chamber of Commerce to accommodate such a body there. We would probably have to meet in layers, and that would not make sense and purpose of an organization reform! [[Abg. Sburny: You know exactly what it's all about, colleague. It's pure polemics!]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I would like any comparable other organization to have such a spirit of reform, and to have such a broad consensus as is the case in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19810	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19831	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We talked a lot about improvements, we also talked a lot about, Karlheinz, that improvements often only take place very slowly. [[in the direction of the Abg. Header]] That's what I see it like: It is a step forward, but certainly not the optimum, and I can use the already dried saying of the economy: “If you don’t go with time, it’s time.” This applies, but not only to economic operators, but to all organizations, and all organisations therefore strive to do so. Karlheinz, to beg for comparison with the ÖGB here, is, I think, not quite right. [[in the direction of the Abg. Header]] I really don't want the Chamber of Economics to see it get into the problem at some point, through such dramatic events as the ÖGB, through some crimes – the suspicion of innocence – to get into reform. It's so much better for me. [[Abg. Grossruck: There are other people acting! And the Chamber of Commerce has no bank!]] I believe that it is only a matter of strengthening social partnership. President Leitel is in favour of social partnership, and this new law is also intended to help the social partners to regain the weight they deserve after the national elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19887	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1450 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen) Professor, stand up!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, ladies and gentlemen, on the democratic package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[18:30:38]] 18. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (1414, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the Medical Law 1998 and the Recipenzpflichtungsgesetz 2006 – GRÄG 2006 (1495 d.b.) 19. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (1430, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Act on Health Austria GmbH (GÖGG) is passed, repeals the Federal Act on the establishment of a fund "Austrian Federal Institute for Health" and amends the Health Promotion Act (1496 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 821/A by Dr Erwin Rasinger, Elmar Lichtenegger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Dentist Law and the Dentist Chamber Law (1497, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19957	We now come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Lacner. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19988	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat, your health policy or the health policy of this Federal Government can be described relatively simply: Access barriers to health care are increasing, benefits are falling, and costs are increasing. It is now a fact, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the self-retaining under this government has been explodingly upward. We have now reached the top in Europe. No reason for joy, Mrs. Federal Minister! At the same time as the increase in self retention, the benefits were greatly reduced, and I will explain to you on the basis of three examples, where self retention has increased particularly strongly. Self retention for glasses: There was an increase of 256 percent between 2000 and 2005; Hospital costs: plus 97 percent over the same period; Recipe fee: plus 36 percent in the same period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light-egger.]] Inflation, Mr. Lichtenegger, was plus 10.6 percent. What do we conclude, Mr Lichtenegger? – The burden on the sick due to self retention has increased significantly more than inflation. Summary: Sickness has become increasingly expensive under this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, with these measures you have first and foremost taken the most socially weak in our society! That is to say, the financial risk has been concentrated almost exclusively on the sick and socially weaker in our society. Mrs Federal Minister, I do not necessarily have to explain to you the link between social status, poverty, and increased risk of disease. However, with these measures – reductions in performance on the one hand and an increase in self-sufficiency on the other – you have made this group particularly hard. Against this background, Mrs. Federal Minister, last week you put yourself in front of a camera in public, claiming with a voice that your measures, i.e. health reforms, would have taken. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Right!]] In fact, they have taken hold, but not as you presented it to the public, but as far as the pockets of sick people are concerned, Mr Rasinger. This is a fact, and I have proved it relatively clear to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This is neither fair nor a reason to be particularly proud of these achievements. Mrs. Federal Minister! Last week after the announcement of the health insurance delivery results, you and also colleague Rasinger almost broke out in collective jubilation. After you have read about it a few times, as it really looks, the euphoria of disillusionment has gone, Mr. Rasinger and Mrs. Federal Minister, because when you look closely, it looks a little different. I do not want to explain now that the EUR 100 million bond did not necessarily contribute to this result at AUVA. Mr Rasinger, however, has also been relatively much saved in the case of insurance benefits of 149 million €. The further development for 2007, 2008 does not look very encouraging either. Similarly, drug costs in the first quarter of 2006 have not necessarily been very positive with plus 11.13 percent. In this criticism, Mrs Federal Minister, we are not alone. There has also come massive criticism from your ranks. In turn, I should like to quote the health insurance officer from Vorarlberg, who told you that what happened specifically to the local health phone was due to your missing policy, ladies and gentlemen. And there's nothing to be agitated about that. The redeployment of public servants to the PVA and the breakdown of unemployment insurance contributions have not necessarily contributed to the poor results of the local health telephone. He also says quite clearly what will happen, Mr Rasinger. He will have to make further cuts in the field of benefits if this non-social policy of this Federal Government continues in this way, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] Mr President, I note that you are for greater self-sufficiency and reduction of performance. That's all right, of course we'll tell people. That's not a problem at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You asked! Can you remember that? Mr Gusenbauer asked for this!]] Why are you so nervous, Mr. Scheibner? Make sure you don't sit in here soon. Do you have to make a few more statements now? [[Abg. Scheibner: It is annoyed when you say the untruth! Admit that you asked!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Health Austria GmbH. You simply and simply forgave that. There's no way past that. I refer to this bill as a bill of opportunity and as a bill of the broken promises, Mrs. Federal Minister. You know very well that it was important to have conversations. If the talks in working groups do not do anything, political discussions should also take place. This has not happened, and we are in best society with our criticism. The Office of the Vorarlberg State Government has criticised this procedure and still does not agree with this bill at all. Nevertheless, Mrs. Federal Minister, the state councillors Stöger and Brauner as well as Mrs. Landeshauptmann Burgstaller made the offer to talk about this bill again. Although they have written back to them, the best thing about this letter is the title “Dear Ladies! ” and thus the essential is already exhaustively listed. Finally, they did not respond to their wishes at all. Madam Federal Minister, you have unfortunately rejected a great opportunity here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: You ended up in a dead end of stress with your health policy! Truly not a great prospect for sick people in our country! It is time for a change of course – especially in health policy, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20103	Ladies and gentlemen! I remind you: Calls only from your own seat! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Rasinger. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20135	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! What we have now heard from Mr Lacner was, at best, a bad election speech. You're such a nice colleague, and it really hurts me to have to tell you that you've made a theme mistake. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is not the first time!]] We're actually talking about very different things, but I'm even going into your topic. I'm so polite. You say sickness has become more expensive. Have you ever heard that all the restraints were introduced by SPÖ in Austria? Did you know that? You didn't tell the listeners. [[the speaker points towards the visitor gallery]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Did you, Mr. Lackner, also know that by the e-card fee of €10, the disease has even become cheaper? If you control the basic methods, then calculate with: You have so far paid 50 S or 3,63 € per health certificate per quarter for the practical doctor and for the specialist. That would be – let's leave the dentist's license now – 7 € per quarter. Seven times four is 28; this is not so unlikely for older people. How much do you pay now? – Mr. Lackner, from 28 € were 10 €! And in the health insurance budget – if you had read and not just had a secretary write to you, you would have come up with it! – revenue from this self-retaining has fallen from 47 million to 33 million. I hope you will never be able to lead Austria's health care if you already fail in these little things. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] In the EU, this is different: We are in second place in terms of satisfaction, in the "World Competitiveness Report" even in first place. – All of this doesn’t apply, Mr. Lackner, the main thing, you can play your CD “Everything is bad!” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was a cassette at most!]] I'm coming to the real subject now. Today it is about improving health care, which you don't want to see, not being able to see, not seeing – it's about health Österreich GmbH, with which we also want to create a national Federal Institute for Quality in Health. This is at least a commendable initiative. Other states, for example England with the National Institute of Clinical Excellence and Germany, have already made us mandatory. The Federal Government is also committed to quality! It's not just about counting the number of interventions, it's about how good these interventions are. I think we are on a very good path in Austria. However, the way is very difficult because everyone understands something else under quality. I have to say: Quality and this way are necessary, because this is about human life, about human fate, and every operation that goes wrong, every treatment that goes wrong is a tragedy for itself. This is a joint project, as federal government, state and social security have one third of the votes in the advisory board each – not as before 3 out of 13. I therefore propose the amendment tabled by Mrs Erwin Rasinger, Mrs Elmar Lichtenegger, colleagues in connection with the Health Change Act in the report of the Health Committee, 1495 of the supplements to the Stoneographic Protocols of the National Council XXII. GP, on the Government template of a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Hospitals, the Medical Law 1998 and the Recipeary Law (Health Change Act 2006 – GRÄG 2006), 1414 of the Supplements to the Stenographical Protocols of the National Council XXII. GP, requested and sought by the President on the basis of the scope of the request in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure for the distribution to Members. I would like to explain the main points of the request: First: Facilitating the recognition of post-promotional training or training-like, medical activities in another EEA Member State or in Switzerland aimed at obtaining medical or professional professional qualifications. Secondly, Contracting doctors, except for doctors with a management function in a hospital, of at least two statutory health insurance providers, but no local health insurance fund, are to be granted the right to opt in the curies of the employed doctors in order to increase the flexibility of the curative assignment. Thirdly, Both at the level of the medical chambers in the federal states and at the level of the Austrian Medical Chamber, it is intended to ensure that decisions taken in urgent matters of the Executive Board, which are taken by the Bureau, are subject to the subsequent control of the Executive Board, provided that the Statute does not make any other regulation in the exercise of the granted design space. Fourth: It will take place with a view to the transitional regime of the 7th. Doctoral Law Novelle also allows for subsequent control of the Board of Directors to take appropriate decisions of the existing presidential committees. Fifth, you open a bottle It is also intended to ensure that patients who have suffered damage due to culpable unlawful medical action in the field of professionally active doctors and for whom there is no prospect of receiving, in a reasonable time, other appropriate compensation, in particular from the professional liability insurance of the doctor, can experience financial support and discharge from a Solidarity Fund of the Austrian Medical Chamber. A legal recession, as is foreseen in the ASVG, is to be arranged in accordance with the model of the StVG for the preservation of the Austrian Medical Chamber. The application also contains further editorial clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20216	The amendment that Mr Rasinger has just tabled is, first of all, sufficient support and has been given to: Secondly, in the key points. I leave him on the basis of the extent according to § 53 para. 4 GOG also to distribute. He is also involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20518	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20540	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rasinger, your speech was not a good vote. In addition, it is simply an immeasurable thing to present this amendment now during the sitting! You can't follow the statements by any speaker/national speaker anymore, you can't listen because you should study this comprehensive work. Or should I vote blind or trust you blindly? – I have no reason to do so! But let's get to the first matter. There is something called “Health Österreich GmbH”, and I wonder: Do you have a word-finding disorder, or is “Health Austria” as a society with limited liability already a reality? - That's weird. In particular, we should have a principle debate on what the key tasks of the State are, as far as the competences of your resort, Mrs Federal Minister, are, how the federal relationship is with countries as far as health is concerned. All health economists reproach that federal structures not only make matter more complicated, but also more expensive! The question should also be discussed: How far are data and facts necessary to make rational policies at all? And if you transfer all these core tasks of a company with limited liability, I ask myself the question: How long will it take for the minister to be “luxuriated” in a society with limited liability? And then who should I sue, who shall I question, who shall I take to the point of responsibility? Of course, you have ministerial responsibility, I know, but in this limited-liability society there is an Institute Assembly, in which the Federation has nine votes against nine votes by the country and the main association! – So 9 : 18 is the ratio! And this Institute Assembly presents what to investigate and what to experience about the content and nature of the mission! I'm wondering, What's useful if you're a single-society partner when, in the end, there's a society over essential things that You can't control it, because the law of guidance – I admit that – does not apply to scientific research, which is all right. What tasks does this society have? – further development of health professions! – Bartenstein will rejoice! It will also immediately establish a GesmbH and take away all the health professions you should control and plan. The company will plan the structure and organisational form of health care, it will plan new compensation systems, quality assurance and verification! Yes, then, what remains in the department? – So to speak Your cabinet and maybe some that so to speak ventilate the rooms or regulate the heating. It can't be! If a managing director is appointed by you to present a business concept within three months for such a large GesmbH with interesting, exciting and important contents, I wonder: Is that possible at all? and answer the question immediately with No. – Within three months you cannot do something like this! This means that the company concept is already in your drawer, and the managing director you have chosen or the managing director then withdraws it from the drawer – or you give it to her or him – and submits it. I call that political influence – possibly – on a path that I do not like. The whole thing, though, is Japanese! It is important to me that the Federation gets more skills, and there I am in agreement with many experts. Even Burgstaller – I was surprised and delighted – says that the central competence of the federal government should be strengthened. - Great! And what's now? – Now the people say that it is not that the countries are being overturned, that social security is being overturned. What is it now? So in short: I can't give that my consent. [[Abg. Shame!]] And I can't talk about such a block in 5 minutes – that's the next joke. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a problem from your club!]] I'm coming to the Health Change Act. There are some positive things, such as cross-border cooperation. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have 20 minutes of speaking time, Mr. Scheibner.]] But we need to look at how this is ultimately filled with content, which is to be evaluated. I would like a separate vote for one reason: because the accommodation of mentally abnormal legal breaks in the general psychiatry is a delicate point for me. First: “spiritually abnormal rightbreakers” is an expression that I do not want to hear again, which is peculiar. If someone is mentally ill, how can he break right if his insight is troubled, not at all present or at least limited? – These are to be referred to as “sickness. ” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also find it paradoxical if you need to talk about it in great detail: Is it now a breach of justice that causes the health system to cost, or is it a sick person who is in judicial prisons and who is causing wrong or unwarranted costs to the judicial centre? In principle, it is good if such people can be treated, treated and perhaps cured in the framework or in the connex. But look at the truth! In judicial prisons, poor to some of the miserable conditions for the treatment of such – I say now – clients are. They're bad. The people who work there have too little resources, the care is not good. As far as care in the Psychiatry of Austria is concerned, I must say that this is simply not prepared for it if it still has to take over this patient. That means I'd say to that, but then you have to change the conditions in judicial and general psychiatry in such a way that these patients are entitled to justice. And they have a right because they're sick. “Lawbreaker” is a word that can then be placed in the back between brackets. I would very much ask you to change this terminology, which is on and on itself a medieval, on the next occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20611	The next speaker was Mr Lichtenegger. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20632	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I believe that health policy is primarily responsible. If you've been listening to Mr Lacner, I have to say that there's not much of a sense of responsibility. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's also in opposition!]] It is not a CD, Mr Rasinger, which Mr Lackner has played here, but it is rather a long-playing board or a shell paint, so old and stowed are his arguments. [[Abg. Scheibner: A shell polish!]] [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] It just has to be said again: Austria has an excellent health system. If you listen to Mr Lacner, you get the impression that he lives in Parliament, he doesn't go out and don't know what's going on in the big wide world. Of course, there has been a discussion about the increase in self retention, but one that is not here right now, by your chairman, Gusenbauer. That's what he wanted. Thank God this federal government has so much sense of responsibility and justice and social warmth, so we have not done so. [[Congratulations on the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] We are the leader in research, our quality of supply is looking for the same. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Finally, we have a comprehensive supply to which we are envied. We have done something in this Federal Government which has not been done to this extent: For the first time, we have set a clear focus on prevention. Prevention means fighting the disease before it actually develops. And in this we see the great savings in the health system that we have designed, how we think it is right and how it considers the majority of people to be right. You too are likely to benefit from this health system if you feel bad or if you are doing well. Because if you're fine, it's just that you've been running prevention. That's where we are looking for synergies, which is where we are looking for cost savings, and that's exactly where we see the benefits and the revolutionaries in the health policy of this federal government. Unfortunately, little has been said about the content of the Committee's deliberations, because that is exactly what has been discussed. Austrian Federal Institute for Health, referred to as ÖBIG. What does this OBIG do? – The ÖBIG actually has the task of being a research and planning institute. In other words, it is already determined in advance: Where do we set our priorities? Where may there be disparities? How can I deal with quality assurance in the Austrian health system? Methods for collecting data are being developed, studies are being carried out. There are, for example, poisoning information and emergency information for companies. - All these are things that make the OBIG. If the argument comes here that everything will be different and the ÖBIG is bad that it will be converted into a GmbH, I have to say that it remains essentially the same. Based on the EU's procurement directives, we need to turn this into a GmbH in order to comply with EU law – and everything remains as it is. The quality of work, the extent of work, all that remains as it is. There are arguments in the committee such as from a colleague who said that in a company one must pay taxes which one does not have to pay in another company. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Of course!]] But she herself said that she was not a tax expert, so her argument was already ad absurdum. Another colleague cannot agree to a law because he does not understand a sentence, and comes up with a word. – Only so that you have an impression of how the Health Committee is doing. In reality, everyone says: Actually, it's good anyway, but I don't understand a word! And I can't agree because I don't know if you have to pay taxes in a GmbH! – In reality, there are no factual arguments that are against accepting this law. But unfortunately God's decisions of opposition at the expense of Austrian health and the health system are taking place in pre-election periods, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20722	It has been reported by the Federal Minister for Smoking and Smoking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20744	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly comment on the three important materials that we want to decide here today. On one hand, we are dealing with a number of adjustments, you have already mentioned them. I will then also address some of the points that Mr Greenewald has mentioned, which will result in the inmates of judicial detention centres and in the treatment of hospitals. On the other hand, it is about Österreich GmbH, a joint planning and research institute, which we are now creating together with a quality institute, and finally also about some adjustments, the improvement of dental training and the reduction of waiting lists in training. But let me briefly comment on a few speeches. Mr Lacner! If you repeat something stereotype, it doesn't get any more correct. I'm allowed to hold: If the SPÖ says again and again that the self-hold is exploding, then again: All self-containment in this Republic in the health sector has been introduced exclusively by SPÖ Health and Social Ministers. There has been no increase in self retention – a single exception are the glasses, as I give you the right, but there has been increased self-sufficiency, but not introduced. Introduced by the SPÖ, only the surcharge at the eyeglass price was increased, not annually. You know, you usually don't buy glasses every year, but every four to six years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] – Mr Darabos, if you come in. Recipe fee. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Herbs, I'm sorry, I confused you. It was always a social democratic head of government and always a socialist or social democratic social minister or health minister. Apart from 1966 to 1970, the ÖVP has never set up the Social Ministers. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Unfortunately!]] Unfortunately, otherwise the social system would look different. Maybe I could say that once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] We took over a heavy inheritance, Mr. Lacner. Mr Lacner! You have spoken of an increase in self retention. – There has been no increase in self retention, but an annual adjustment. Not decided by the ÖVP, no, in 1981 decided under Federal Chancellor Kreisky! And this increase is done automatically, so it is not determined. You mentioned the hospital fee. I can tell you: We have negotiated this together in the Article 15a Treaty. The hospital fee is not withdrawn by the federal government, but by the federal states, and the federal states have requested it, and it is exempt from the federal states whether they increase or not. Vienna, for example, has increased, is not governed by the ÖVP. Salzburg has increased, is not governed by the ÖVP. Upper Austria has also increased, but Styria has not increased. Please, look at this! Another thing: They also said that it was the most vulnerable of all. – You should not mislead the people in the gallery and in the public and know that more socially weak God is freed from the prescription fee that thank God are freed from the hospital fee! So that's just not true! In addition, you are pretending to be the sum of the health expenditure of the quality indicator for a health care. Let's take a look at this! In the U.S. health care is spent twice as much money as in Austria. But better it's not for a long time. We don't want any states like the United States where, when you get to the hospital, you first have to put the credit card before you are treated. That's not how we want it in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the satisfaction with health care has increased in Austria, not only with the treatments. I would like to thank all the health care professionals, doctors, doctors, pharmacists, nurses, therapists, therapists. Finally, Mr Rasinger has already said that we are world-wide in terms of satisfaction in the first place and in Europe, according to another study in second place, that is always far ahead. Let me just say something about the local health phone. I already know that it hurts you when exactly two years ago, namely in May 2004, the main association of social security funds for 2005 predicted a loss of minus € 529 million and the result now, in May 2006, where it is available for 2005, is suddenly plus € 20 million. This would mean that, unlike the forecasts of the main association – not by me – we have saved 550 million. This may all be a success, and you will all be able to say that the reforms are taking place, not at the expense of the patients. The quality has not become worse. If Mr. Bittner, your representative in the main association, Chairman of the Vienna District Hospital, then says that's all, the woman's minister lives on the moon and the earth is a disc, then I have to resist it: I've never said that this is already the area's health phone rehabilitated. I just said that they could take an example from some other health insurance companies. In addition, one could say that those who scream the loudest make the biggest debts, because the biggest debtor is the Vienna local health insurance fund. So it would be better for Mr Bittner to focus primarily on these his work and to write black instead of red numbers. This is not only better in the economy, but also in social security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] Mr Greenewald, we have already discussed the question of what is going on in the Committee on Human Rights. We should really agree with the Ministry of Justice here in order to ensure that the situation is optimised. The costs are borne by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. not by the Health Service, which is naturally recovered. As far as Österreich GmbH's health is concerned, I must say that we really have a large joint planning and research institute. I didn't quite know, because on the one hand you meant that the federal government shares too much in science, in the institute assembly, and, on the other hand, that the whole thing belongs to him. – It is about keeping EU rules on the one hand, what calls for tenders are being made so that we can be awarded. You know that. I was aware of a democratic regime in the Institute's meeting: a third country, a third social security scheme, a third federal government – by the way, to the difference from ÖBIG, which was also established under the German Chancellor Kreisky. There the countries had only two seats, the social security only one and the federal government, I think, 18 or so. So we are much more democratic, and I am convinced that this institution will be a real progress towards the present situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20825	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20847	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Once again, you have had the numbering of Mrs Rauch-Kallat's Minister of the Interior, namely that the reforms are taking place. The fact that the patients pay – you can hear that on the street, that's told me, that's told us all without having to make big election speeches. That the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse was examined three times by the Ministry that there were no bodies or other things to be found in the basement, you must also take note of this, dear Mrs. Minister. The ÖVP increases self retention. In the case of pine regulation, in the case of tooth replacement, everywhere there they have increased by 100 percent, and people have to pay 50 percent. Health has become expensive in our country and illness as well. Mrs. Minister, you are responsible for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Rasinger said a very interesting sentence before, he meant that the path is difficult. Mr Rasinger! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: He's not here anymore, Mr. Rasinger!]] The way is difficult. But you can't do it with your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example is the amendment that has been distributed to us today, without our previous knowledge of it, on issues that have been known for a long time and which are to be resolved for a very long time, is here in the Husch-Fuch procedure, as the government policy continues in the field of health. [[Abg. Neudeck: colleague! Now you skip a line! That's what the secretary wrote down differently!]] Here again, an example. The Austrian population is finding that the benefits of the health system are getting worse and worse. The Federal Minister is responsible for this, because you have swirled around the system that charges health insurance companies with additional tasks and large expenditure. The solid foundation of the excellent health system that social democrats have built up has got holes and the government has drilled into holes. Stop the doctor, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20909	Mrs Grander's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20930	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The way is difficult. This shows – and has shown itself. I'm just saying, We have taken it and have taken this difficult path and are in the process of simply regulating it, that it is in the sense of all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] I would now like to take a very brief look at the statements made by my predecessor, who addressed the opinion of the Austrian people. [[Abg. Scheibner: It doesn't pay off!]] So I experience again and again that the population is well aware of the good health system we have. And there are always people – I have mentioned this before – who have been abroad, so they can report other experiences and praise our health system over and over again. It is only necessary to look at what has been done structurally, in terms of quality assurance et cetera. I don't think it's easy to do that. I always feel like we're living there in two worlds. [[Abg. Scharer: I think so too!]] They see this or they want to see it, but I think you have to focus on the facts. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Why don't you do it?]] - We do it! I don't think we can say that we don't focus on it, otherwise there wouldn't be today's novices and today's laws. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Freeman – BZÖ.]] To the Health Change Act: The Hospital Law regulates the cooperation between hospitals in the event that something is distributed, for example to another country. My colleague Wöginger will address the cooperation between Upper Austria and Germany. Furthermore, the tasks of sanitary supervision, the hygiene team, are also regulated, as is usual in Austria, which is designed to prevent infections from developing in the hospital. Furthermore, it is clarified that the relationship for the employment of temporary workers in hospitals, as defined in the relevant professional group legislation, we decided some time ago to observe per department or other organisational unit. Now still on the health of Austria GmbH. The main concern is the use of the technical content of synergies. I have the feeling that nobody can see that. And there were really many discussions with all the positions and interests in advance. There is a third parity between federal, state and social security. The involvement of the countries as responsible for hospitals and social security, responsible for outpatient care, is therefore important because the aim of the health structural reform is to overcome the previously strictly separate extra and intramural supply structures. This third parity is therefore also important in order to link these areas together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21005	The next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21026	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For today's bill for the establishment of Österreich GmbH's health, there is no need in this form, but it has only been made because the Ministry of Health wants to tear all the power in itself, with all the consequences, just as we know it at the ORF. No more and no less. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, we could have talked about the ÖBIG and the Federal Institute for Quality Assurance cooperating with each other because this is a common matter. It is about the ÖBIG creating expertise and the Federal Institute for Quality Assurance in the future to ensure that these are implemented in order to eliminate defects and that there is an evaluation. I could have lived with this, but not in the form of a GesmbH, but as a fund, for example. But now that you have packed the Healthy Austria Fund in a wash, Mrs Minister, there is no reason at all for this, and you have not brought one in the committee except – and I repeat your words –: We have set this up in the government programme. – “Super”! That's the only reason there's no one else. Then you have still tried to try Mrs. Minister, a bit as to whether you're scratching the curve with the synergies. – You know, there are no synergies, because for the 16 employees who work at the Healthy Austria Fund, you haven’t employed your own wage accountant anyway, but this is taken part in the whole. Mrs Minister, what you have forgotten, or the Minister of Finance has not told you – he would have done so if he had done so: You're taxed now. A GesmbH has a VAT rate of 20 percent. There you can do it and count as you want, that's it! If you do not believe me, Mrs Minister, then call Mr Strasser, the former Minister of the Interior, or ask your Minister of the Interior, Mrs Prokop. Until a few months ago, we had the civil service GesmbH, which was the same construction as you now make it at Österreich GmbH's health. Of course, the GesmbH civil service was liable for tax! There's nothing to discuss at all. That's what it's like. You didn't think about it, or you didn't want to think about it. For a very good reason, you have not settled a cost bill. Where is she? If you had settled a cost bill, then you would have seen that the whole project just costs you a lot of money, because of the price that you can take power again, that You can rule right up to the lowest level, because that's all you're all about, Mrs. Minister. And if you claim the opposite, you say the untruth, and you know that too. You know that very well. Now to you, Mr. Lichtenegger. Mr. Lichtenegger, in the time you have trained so that you can run fast, I have learned accounting. I don't understand any race, but you don't understand accounting, you proved it first, because a GesmbH is always taxed. If you don't believe it, ask me, I can tell you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means practically, this construction that you made there costs you 20 percent in addition, creates you 20 percent of additional costs. But, Mrs. Minister, that is all right for you if you manage to get out of there all those people who are still inside both the ÖBIG and the Fund Healthy Austria and are not your party's members and your own people. I'm excited how you want to deal with the management now, where there's no description at all, what it needs to do, what tasks it has, no concepts, nothing at all, so a blank check. Mrs Minister, you know what you're going to do – I'm telling you in advance: You will put in a preliminary lead for a few months, and in the fall the ones who already stand in front of your office and need a job because they have come through in some federal states or because the elections have not turned up as you wanted. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Post chess!]] - That's the whole calcule in this law. All those who claim something else simply say the untruth. It's a shame, Mrs. Minister, that you're crushing the fund, that you're dissolving it, that you're inhaling it. He's been doing good work since 1998. Now, of course, you're going to put me back – I hear you in the background –: Yes, this is a good friend of yours! – That’s right, that’s a good friend, but he’s a top-notch managing director of the Healthy Austria Fund, and that’s what he’s to evaluate and nothing else. But you judge people not according to your abilities, according to what they do, but whether they belong to your party or not. If they don't belong to it, the best people will be abandoned, Wurst from where they come from.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21078	It has been reported by the Federal Minister for Smoking and Smoking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21099	Madam President. High house! I strongly reject the fact that I make any preferences or disadvantages of any staff or have management functions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh you, oh you!]] It will be done exactly after tendering. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Reichhold!]] Even if the previous situation had been maintained – we took all 1 : 1 –: The contract of Mr Dennis Beck, whose work I very much appreciate – I don't care if he's your friend or not, the fund is excellently managed, he's ordered – runs at 30. ==References== He needs to be rewritten. I assume that Mr. Beck will apply again, and it will be waiting for who will apply and who will then be taken – but not for friendship, but only for skills and skills. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Party policy!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21164	Next, Mr Wöginger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21185	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This revision, the Health Change Act, is a very important point for Upper Austria and for my constituency Innviertel for cross-border cooperation in health care and thus between the various hospitals. The Upper Austrian government has increasingly intervened at the federal level to ensure that cross-border cooperation is also possible in the field of health care. For example, we have this in the rescue service by the ÖAMTC/ADAC rescue helicopter "Europa 3", which is stationed in Suben in the district of Schärding and serves parts of Upper Austria and Bavaria. A forward-looking and positive model in Upper Austria is now also the Braunau Hospital in the Inn district. The Braunau Hospital cooperates with Simbach Hospital on the German side. Both cities are separated only by the border, and both cities have hospitals nearby. In the Braunau Hospital, renovation work was under way, making it difficult for some departments to do high-quality and secure work. On the other side of the border was an almost new hospital well equipped and set up at a high level, but with empty departments. For cost reasons only outpatient treatments and acute beds are offered in Simbach. The distance between the two hospitals is very low. It is therefore obvious that, in this case, the Braunau Hospital is moving entire departments, so to speak, in order to complete its own reconstruction work. Nevertheless, the full performance program can now be offered to the patients, as the free-standing resources can be used in the Simbach Hospital by the Braunau Hospital. For information: I also had phone calls with staff at the Braunau Hospital. There are very positive feedbacks, both from employees and from the population. The problem of these so-called dislodged departments is the unsafe legal basis for both patients and also for staff. With this innovation, under certain conditions, we are creating a legally secure area. Of course, it was important to us in the sense of patients that the Austrian health standard is guaranteed that Austrian law is applicable and that our patients have the same rights as regards patient representation and compensation funds. Furthermore, it is in the sense of the law-making and money-giver that the financing rules of the country and the national hospital plan are complied with. I thank you for this progressive way of working across borders. Especially in some EU critical times and discussions, this is a very good example of how positive a common Europe can be.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21233	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Oh, my God, my God. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21255	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, I think you know the IFES investigation. If not, I can inform you of the result in two points: Only more everyone and every fourth believes that the ÖVP has competence in health policy, and two thirds of Austrians believe that only more rich people would be optimally cared for medically – and, Mrs. Federal Minister, the people are not wrong! Actually, I wanted to tell you that in the interests of young dentists, we want to agree to the modification of the dental law. The problem is that in Vienna and Graz students are increasingly unable to continue their studies directly after the second course of study due to the lack of internships. This innovation allows the temporary establishment of dental teaching practices, where there is the possibility to complete up to 50 percent of the practice. We hope that this will make it possible to reduce the waiting list more quickly. However, I would also like to point out that within a short period of time a second novel and amendment to the Dentist Act are now being made. I think that's probably proof of the superficial health policy. Her goal is to develop the system away from the solidarity health system towards two-class medicine, along the path of self retention. Many examples have already shown where increases have been made: Recipe fees more than 36 percent, hospital fee 100 percent. The goal of your health policy and your policy as a whole is to redistribute – also in the field of health policy. It is precisely the fact that today’s self retention is €200 million higher than in 2000, while at the same time more than €900 million will be saved from the health insurance funds. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, we hear nothing about you trying to get these money. – This is probably also a possibility of redistribution. I therefore believe that it is necessary to point out the differences just before elections. Whoever decides on the People's Party next time supports a rapid development towards the privatisation of the health system. However, those who support the Social Democrats support the way that all health care is possible for everyone, regardless of whether someone is poor or rich.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21303	The next speaker was Mrs Fuhrmann. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21325	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to focus on the subject of changing the law on dentistry, because it is students who are concerned when it comes to waiting for up to two years in the course of their training or completion of this training in order to obtain an internship place. We have tried to act as quickly as possible, and we have set up something that is already made possible by general doctors in the context of a canning agreement, namely the establishment of dental teaching practices. I think this is a very good solution, because the students can study as quickly as possible – the study takes 12 semesters anyway. I remember that this was very critical in the Committee's discussions, especially in the Scientific Committee, where the subject has been discussed, and I am glad that my previous speaker has now announced that the SPÖ would agree to it. I think that's a very good thing. If a total of 106 study places are affected – 70 of them in Vienna, twelve in Innsbruck and 24 in Graz – this is a great success. In particular, the student representatives have proposed this as a solution. As a result, I would like to thank you for a solution as quickly as possible and believe that we students should not, above all, put any stones in the way. I am pleased to agree to the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21362	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. Requested time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21383	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lichtenegger said today that the health reform shows “social warmth. ” – Mr Lichtenegger, have you ever talked to a cancer patient or a cancer patient who has been reduced to 52 weeks from 78 weeks? Or have you ever talked to a construction worker who has a lump that needs special footwear and who has to think about it now because he has to pay 53 percent to a work shoe – and of course also to a leisure shoe? You can now “elevate ” or“ increase ” or “pay ” or – what else have I written down? – call ‘automatic setting’. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fact is that people have to pay for this, and that is no longer “social warm”. Mrs Minister, I am very grateful that we have taken part in the amendment of the Health and Health Organization Act today, because this makes sense for the Braunau Hospital, which leads, so to speak, cross-border cooperation in the pilot and forced. This amendment now creates the legal basis. The Braunau Hospital was of course also confronted with saving 90 beds in addition to the renovation work. This is why the Internal Department has been outsourced to Simbach. Whether this is economic – because you have two locations now – you still have to question exactly. You also have to ask the following questions: You always have to maintain a residual medical care at the Braunau Hospital. Mrs Minister, I would also ask you to look at exactly what cross-border cooperation with competitiveness and equality of competition looks like. What about the management of financing flows, the safeguarding of standards and the actual impact on employees? – This should be made transparent, and there should be rules that involve all those involved and those involved, and that should then be put on a legal basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21423	The next speaker was Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21444	You laughed me so nice now. [[towards SPÖ]] Thank you for that! Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! And also a warm welcome to those sitting on the gallery! Through consistent goals of our Federal Minister for Health and Women, Maria Rauch-Kallat, successful health reforms have been established during this period of government, and I know that other countries really envy us. [[Abg. Broukal:... School essay!]] Some things have gone on, and that has not always been easy, because there is very often one another and not one another. It was not only important that this high standard of our health system be maintained, but also that future conditions be taken into account, for example demographic development – not a slight undertaking when it comes to restructuring, a co-existence rather than a counterpart. Another important step is now being taken through the establishment of ÖBIG, the Austrian Health Institute (ÖBIG), the Federal Institute for Quality in Health and Health and Health (Federal Institute for Health) and the Austrian Health Fund. A national research and planning centre is created which prepares both the important bases for health care and promotion and the quality assurance guidelines for decision-makers at the federal and national levels and health insurance. The main concern of the law is therefore the use of the technical and content synergies resulting from the close cooperation of the three complementary business areas, and this also means that a financial synergies effect can be expected through administrative simplification. [[Abg. Oils: And the political synergies?]] For an integrated health care in the extra and intra-mural field, nine representatives of the countries, health insurance and the federal government are to participate in the new institute meeting on what is most important to people in our country in addition to quality of life: the health of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21501	Mr Herzegovina came next to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21522	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I don't know if the previous speaker really believes it or if she's thinking of the world as she is offering it here. [[Abg. Murauer: You must be against it!]] This health Austrian GmbH is of course about power, Mrs. Colleague, and about post-chacher. – This is the business of Mrs. Minister, she is a learned party general secretary, who has only forgotten that once ÖVP ministers have passed laws that are now defying her here. Mrs. Minister, you should have listened a little bit to competent health politicians, for example to Mrs. Landeshauptmann Burgstaller or to Mrs. Stadtratin Brauner. They would have brought in a lot, and then it wouldn't have come to such a senseless law decision. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Have you ever said something positive in your life?]] This decision will concern all levels, for example medicines. They recently wanted to be given very little increase in drug costs – 2% or so. Mrs. Minister! Are you aware of the statistics on the development of drug spending? – legendary 11.13 percent in the first quarter! The expenses for cures to explode for medications, so you have also failed in this area. Given the fact that everything has occurred in the Standing Subcommittee, you have no reason at all to present anything positive from the chief physician, the e-card award scandal, to the opinion of Univ.-Professor Rebhahn, whom you ignore. [[Abg. May. Controller: Scandal? What scandal?]] It is, I believe, important that you are told this time and again, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21583	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21605	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For a year, I have been confronted with repeated requests from students regarding dentistry studies. The topics of changeover from the old to the new study plan, waiting times and especially the teaching courses are always discussed. [[Abg. Oils: Right! That's where you caused the chaos!]] Many have been involved in this issue, and I am pleased that a good solution has now been reached together with our Mrs. Federal Minister regarding the lack of internships for students of dentistry. The setting-up of dental teaching practices will now reduce the waiting time for students who have already completed the first and second studies and for whom no direct further study is currently possible. A maximum of half of the 72-week internship can be completed in the future also outside the university clinics, namely in recognized dental teaching practices. As this scheme is mainly used for the removal of the waiting list, it is planned that this provision shall be made by 31 December of the following year. ==References== After this date, dental training should again be carried out exclusively at university clinics for dentistry, oral and oral medicine, taking into account the results of the evaluation of the dislodged practical training. So I think that overall this is a good solution, and I thank you on behalf of the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21641	The next item is Mrs Schahrer's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21663	Mrs. Minister! With Österreich GmbH, you are clearly creating a basis of power over the previously independent quality institutes. In particular, they have not taken into account the negative opinions in the assessment and proposals of the countries in any way and have actually supported a construction behind the backs of the countries and social security. I believe that you are endangering the security of Austrian health policy, in which, so far, the cooperation of all parties has always found a solution in the interests of the Austrians. They disregard the idea of the Health Partnership, which should be the basis of the reform on health care. What is the result of your health reform promised for six years? [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: I have only been a minister for three years!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I know you don't want to hear it: Everything that has actually been made transparent and done is new restraints and numerous burdens for people. I can't hear it again if you tell gloriously how good people are. Its reform is characterised by the increase in health insurance contributions, leisure accident insurance contributions and, at the same time, by massive reductions in performance, for example in the field of health transport. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. You don't believe what you're saying!]] In 1999 you paid € 0, today you have a retention of €8.50. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: These are... provisions of social security! That's not a law!]] There is a minus of 20.5 percent for recreation stays for children, and discretion expenditure is also reduced. We believe that self-retaining is unsocial and affects, above all, less income-reduced people. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your actions, ladies and gentlemen, are aimed at making health care a commodity. – This is a clear rejection!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21748	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21769	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really do not understand the completely destructive and negative approach of the opposition speakers, especially for the following reason: Self-retaining and similar – which has already been mentioned several times today – have been mostly introduced by you. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it!]] [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: All! Everyone!]] – All self-holds, as well as other measures that you criticize. The fact is that all studies show that the Austrians are satisfied with our health system, and that's what matters. Our Minister of Health makes policy for the people, and they are satisfied with their health policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Herzegovina meant that Österreich GmbH's health was created only because it was about power and about post-chacher. – This is in order to finally create a long-needed pooling of planning, control and evaluation activities in the health sector. This was a long-standing demand, and it is now really possible to achieve efficiency. Also with regard to the principle of guidance, full freedom of guidance, independence: The Federal Minister has already pointed out that not only data will be collected but they will also be used scientifically and that conclusions will also be drawn from it and, ultimately, the quality of health policy and health care can also be improved. These are very concrete approaches and measures, and we stand to do so and will continue to work in this direction. I would also like to mention the involvement of the countries. The improvement of the interface between hospitals and the extra-mural sector is also a very important measure, which is especially necessary and important for medical care – that is, loud measures that are put in place at the right time and that bring about an improvement in the health system in Austria. That is why, at the end of the debate, a warm thanks to our Minister of Health, who is coming to the people of Austria with her health policy – a thank you for her commitment and for her good policy! – People will also recognize them!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21847	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21876	I don't need to put anything right. I liked it so much that now the ÖVP members have made themselves, organized a lobby on the woman ministers, and said it was great that a federal law on health Austria GmbH is now being passed, and there are so many improvements that we do not want to see. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's right!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Don't be so nervous!]] Now I'm saying, But there is so much in it that even a blind person sees what is actually being pursued by this change of law, namely to create a basis of power and to introduce a right of entry through the previously independent Federal Institute. The motto is: In the future, all power will be given to Mrs. Minister! Especially you, Federal Minister of Smoking, continue to preach that health care is important for you, and stress that you want a broad consensus. – The fact is that it looks different behind the scenes. Mr Lacner called it broken promises, because the numerous nega­tive opinions, whether from Vorarlberg, Tyrol or also from the Chamber of Commerce, have been erased, and the participation rights of the countries and the main association are trampled on by this law. The same applies to the opposition's rights of participation today, if a five-page amendment amendment is taken five minutes before the end of the debate, according to the motto: Fresh, bird, or die! This is a sad way of doing this. It is sad if, instead of previously independent quality institutions, there are now only more points of reference. That is, not we, the Members, will have a say in the future, but only the Minister will decide which hospital departments are to be applied, and - and I am going on now - she will even decide which and how many staff will work in the departments in the future. From an independent GmbH we are there miles away, as well as from a forward-looking health policy. Mrs. Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat, you have forced the health insurance companies to carry out reductions in additional benefits, for example in 2001 of €24 million. In 2002, you forced the health insurance companies to make reductions of €57 million, and you have introduced self-retains of €35 million in the visual assistance. So, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, your health policy is looking forward! Mrs Scheucher said it was all so great and it would be a policy for the people. – We have come far in the last six years! In view of this policy, the Austrians must be afraid that they will no longer be able to afford the disease at all in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e21945	No one has made any mention of this any more. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Health Change Act 2006 in 1495 of the Supplements. Hiezu, MEPs have given Dr. Rasinger, Lichtenegger, colleagues and others tabled an additional amendment or amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote made by Mr Dr. Grünewald, colleagues. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have made a request for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr President, have tabled an additional request for the inclusion of new paragraphs in Article 2. Whoever joins this supplementary request, I am looking for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall vote separately on Article 1 (1), (2), (3), (5), (6) and (12) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 (10) as amended by the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on Article 2(c) and (8) as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2(4)a and (5). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on Rule 2 (12) as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr President. Whoever is here, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote separately on Rule 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH, repeals the Federal Law on the establishment of a fund “Austrian Federal Institute for Health Care” and amends the Health Promotion Act, including the title and receipt in 1496 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the dental law and the dental chamber law, including the title and receipt in 1497 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:47:39]] 21. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1351, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Health and Nutritional Safety Act – GEG and repealing the Federal Law on Veterinary Medical Institutes (1498 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1366, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Veterinary Act (1499 d.a.) 23. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1422, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and the Animal Disease Act (1500 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22121	We now come to points 21 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Maier. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22151	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have set out in the Health Committee our positions on the changes to the Health and Food Safety Act, and I would just like to repeat them here briefly. We cannot accept that in future the Agriculture Ministers, including in the field of medicinal products, will also decide on the work plans. We simply see § 12 in an unclear way. In principle, we see major problems in the overall construction of the AGES. We see financial problems, Mrs Federal Minister, we do not know what the AGES losses actually look like. We see the media that in 2007 the loss is to amount to € 19.4 million and in 2008 € 21.3 million. We do not know how to estimate the situation that last year under the AGES, € 1.3 million was spent on external consultants. We think the concept of AGES has not gone up. A new federal government will have to consider this issue of food safety and put forward a new concept and let it decide here in this House. We're ready to do that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, I would like to continue to devote myself to food safety and consumer protection, and there are already absurdities, Mrs Federal Minister. I hold here the federal law paper, published on 20 July. ==References====External links== January 2006, in hand. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that on 23 March the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act was also amended in Article 3 as part of the Association Responsibility Act. Again: One changes a law at a time when the basic law has not even entered into force. My question, therefore, Mrs Federal Minister: Is article 3 of the Association Responsibility Act now in force at all or not? I checked in the RIS and wanted to find out if this § 86 para. 4 actually appears in the text. – Mrs Bundesminister, § 86 para. 4 of the LMSVG, which has been amended within the framework of the Association Responsibility Act, does not appear in this Act! I would like to ask for clarification; if it is necessary, also together with the Federal Minister for Justice. Now to the request itself. There is an amendment to the LMSVG which seeks to resolve a number of problem areas, in particular on the conditions for provisional confiscation of goods. You may still remember the hundreds of tons of so-called game meat in Germany. This was meat that had been frozen for a long time, up to three years, then thawed up and sold as food. However, we also had the problem that slaughter waste from Austria, from Switzerland in Germany, was purchased and sold as food. This separatist meat and these offal were sold especially for frozen pizzas and the like. . Now I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, why it is not possible under this scheme to have such game meat or meat waste sold as food seized. This, of course, raises the question: How do I tell the consumer? High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have the rule that only in the event of health damage and even under certain conditions can the public be informed and can be informed. If game meat is sold when slaughter waste is sold as food, consumers have no right to information. The same applies, Mrs Federal Minister, if genetically modified food is placed on the market. You have confirmed this yourself in an answer to a question: Consumers are not entitled to information which food includes GMOs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! One could take an example of the German regulation; in the German Food Safety Act, there is the possibility that the public will be informed about it. The draft law here does not provide for this possibility, Mrs Federal Minister, therefore We cannot accept this regulation either.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22224	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22245	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not know exactly what you intend to do with the German regulation. On the one hand, it does not meet the criteria – I believe that this is the same; it certainly does not happen in Austria – and on the other hand, it is supposed to give a better quality of information. I can't read that out. I am now referring to the available materials. This is first of all about the GEG. This draft law is intended to bring about the repeal of the Federal Law on Veterinary Medical Institutes, which has been largely withdrawn materially. The appropriate adaptation of the Health and Food Safety Act aims to achieve clarity of the rules for the standard recipients. There is a amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger, Mr Elmar Lichtenegger, Mr President, on the legislative proposal in the report of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1351 d.b._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Health and Nutritional Safety Act – GEG and repealing the Federal Act on Veterinary Medicine (Bundesgesetz über die Veterinärmedizinische Bundesanstalten) (1498 d. B.) before I bring it in. I would like to ask the President for the extent of the distribution of this request to the Members in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG. I would like to explain the main points of the request. In view of the tasks assigned to the GESG since in-force steps, the participating departments set the allocation of basic funding by the participating regions to 40 percent by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water and 60 percent by the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. In view of the current financial year, this scheme can only be reached by 1. ==References== Furthermore, by rewording § 12 of the GEG, it is clarified that the Federal Government can cover increases in the Agency's expenditure by means of additional grants and that the owner has paid off individual activities commissioned by him after establishing the work programmes. Articles 1 Z 10 and 2 § 3 contain In-Force-Tretens provisions that were adapted. With regard to veterinary legislation, I would simply like to point out that the training as a specialist veterinarian, established by the Veterinary Chamber by regulation, is introduced. I think that this is a proper and appropriate measure. It is also positive to highlight the leadership of a house apothecary, for which of course one needs a corresponding longer training time. There is also a decisive need for further training. The Veterinary Training Academy checks who is continuing education and who does not, and who does not train, loses the legal claim to carry the term “scientist”. Hiezu there were some discussions we had with students and stakeholders, and I think that this law takes all of this into account. Finally, I would just like to point out that details are also regulated in disciplinary law and election law, supply fund schemes and the determination that veterinarians belong to a health profession have been made. It is a draft that solves the coming questions and, as I believe, improves the facts – therefore, of course, we should expect approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22315	The amendment just tabled by Mr Donabauer is sufficiently supported and explained in the key points. I therefore leave him according to § 53 para. 4 bringing GoG to distribution on the basis of its extent; with it it stands in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22424	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22445	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current legislative amendments in the field of health and food law and veterinary and animal health legislation point out what has been the subject of this House over and over again, namely the fundamental question of the extent to which health and agricultural issues are really restricted or to what extent they are to be dealt with separately. I think it is very crucial – and this has always been our line – that the one responsible for the application, Mrs Federal Minister, cannot at the same time be responsible for control. This is ultimately also the dilemma of the Agency for Health and Nutritional Safety, which continues to exist. This novel on the Health and Food Safety Act with the integration of the Federal Veterinary Institutes again shows very clearly where the problem lies and where there is a need for action. On the one hand, there is a financing problem, which has already been addressed here. I would remind you in this context that the basic grants will continue to fall. In 2006, around €55 million will be available, and from 2006 onwards, €54 million will be available. In other words, basic funding will be reduced. On the other hand, what exactly is to be done with it is unclear. That is why we are calling for clarification in this proposal as regards the task. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] You can see again: Two departments are responsible, a vote is necessary, and there is, as has been said, incompatibility on this issue. If you regulate the application, you cannot do the control tasks at the same time. There is clearly a conflict of interest. Further: Additional tasks must be financed. – This is obviously the attempt to use projects for the existing external positions that have already been accumulated – otherwise I cannot see it, Mrs Federal Minister – so that a comprehensive task, namely what we have always called for, is at all feasible, especially in the field of risk research. We have also mentioned this in the Committee. Risk research is the major challenge. Examples such as the last BSE case or the avian influenza problem or the chicken plague, as the avian flu has always been mentioned in itself and as which it has been known for decades, show that there is not only the research required, but also the corresponding information to the public – that is, foresight! But the AGES also have too little money for that. Where have the good documents for the public, for example, on the economic backgrounds of the bird flu scandal in Asia, which was examined by the Commission in 2004, where money has also been made available, for example for protection measures in Vietnam et cetera? But who explained to the public that this was an agro-industrial big attempt – that was ultimately it! – under the most difficult hygienic conditions, where a disease came out at the end? That is fact in Asia! – You should look at that more closely, but I'm missing the time for that now. Let me take a brief look at the Veterinary Act. – keyword: Veterinaries who have to deal with diseases. I find it positive that further qualifications In the case of training as a specialist, the training will be offered. In this direction, development is to go. Also that a qualification is necessary for the management of a house apotheke, is something positive. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, here again: Independence is an important asset! However, when the examination is taken, it is not compulsory to involve the Veterinary University from the law, again shows that you want everything to be smeared in your own juice, and there is a legitimate concern that this also leads to conflicts of interest. That's not in our sense! In conclusion: In the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Minister of Agriculture is prompted to give his consent when regulations on MRLs in pesticides are announced by your place of residence. In this example, it is clear that this cannot be the case. Then: Where you are responsible for drinking water, where it is a matter of healthy drinking water, for example in the delivery of nitrates, in the load of soils, you have no way of speaking, the agricultural sector remains. – You can see that this is incompatible. Therefore, you should make more effort to get clarity and to regulate the competences here at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22509	The next honourable Member is Mr Lichtenegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22531	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We all agree, I believe, that by laws and regulations we cannot prevent crime – in order to take up the example of the ‘melded meat’ – but what we can do is to carry out enhanced control. I believe that this law has taken us a step further, because in reality a regulation has been adopted to protect geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, as amended by 31. ==References====External links== There is also increased cooperation between the various institutions in the field of goods transport with abroad, in the field of customs, on the question of: How do I fight unfair competition: Veterinary services on the one hand, food control on the other? This association is very much obliged to make a statement to the Federal Minister about the product specifications. This must also be reported to the European Commission. Entrepreneurs producing products in conjunction with protected information, designations and names under the Regulations shall also be obliged to participate in this control procedure. So I think we, as you have asked, Mr Maier, have a very good duty to inform the Federal Ministry. It is also in the interest of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this information is also brought to the attention of the Austrian people – not so much as in Germany – and that there is substantial information work and substantial preventive work so that such things cannot happen in Austria. Now to the Veterinary Act. – In our opinion, veterinarian is very probably a health profession. It is important to us that the high standard of food of animal origin also achieves the appropriate standard. With the introduction of an additional qualification for the management of a house apotheke, the Chamber of Veterinars would like to promote the practical proximity of training in the pharmaceutical sector. Of course, it is desirable that young veterinarians can gather experience with regard to the management of a home apotheque even before the opening of their own veterinary practice. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Do the human physicians also have?]] We also want to make it easier for veterinarians who do not own a doctorate to obtain a specialist veterinary certificate, because specialist veterinarians have a special obligation to train in their field. I think there is no reasonable counter-argument of not accepting this law. We have debated in the Committee for a long time, we have heard many arguments, but it has not been so convincing that we can say: All right, there's something we can think about. – There have also been no contributions to the Veterinary Act from the opposition that would be worth finding here a majority. I think that's just pre-election. There really is no reason not to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22570	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22592	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I too see some problems in amending the Health and Food Safety Act, at least two serious: First of all, there are conflicts of interest in agriculture, and they will break up. Secondly, there are enormous additional financial problems for the AGES, which has already been greatly suppressed by the reduction of financial resources. The conflict of interest between agriculture and food security has already been identified by my previous speakers. I also like the regulation, as it was made in Germany, that the GMOs are, for example, identified and thus recognized, well. In the veterinary practice year, which, for example, as already noted, the human physicians do not have to do, I really only see a means to keep trained veterinarians away from their work for a year and put them into training again. Guided tour of a house apotheke: This is certainly taught in the course of study. Every veterinarian must be able to conduct a house apothecary, and everyone now needs to take a one-year course because otherwise he will have difficulty with the Standes Directive and with his Approbation. As far as risk research is concerned, I also believe that this is a good thing. But unfortunately the AGES lacks the money for it. That's why I mean that this can't happen, and that's why it has to be rejected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22629	The next item is Mrs Riener's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22650	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Since January 2006 is now the new food safety The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of The system changeover at federal and national level is in progress. However, this gives rise to some necessary clarifications that make implementation even more effective. Adjustments are also needed as a result of the amended Community legislation. The ÖVP has always been a concern to ensure safe and safe food. I would particularly like to stress the innovation for local direct marketers, because at European level, the regulations on quality standards for geographical designations of origin and traditional methods of processing have been revised. The relevant control has been included in this amendment. In this way Austrian direct marketers can market their products as a speciality throughout Europe. I am very happy about this because this is one of the trust building measures in Austria – and Austria guarantees quality. Furthermore, the powers of the supervisory bodies were specified in the possibility of confiscation of goods if there is, as it were, a risk of delay because ordered measures are not implemented or entrepreneurs do not comply with their own control. For the ÖVP and the Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, high food safety is always a priority. Therefore, new insights and experiences were immediately responded to and implemented into the law. Finally, I would like to congratulate our Federal Ministers Maria Rauch-Kallatgratul. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have managed to turn a forecast deficit of €567 million in 2005 through appropriate measures and without increases in contributions for the population into an increase of €20 million. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22696	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has spoken from the government bank. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22717	Mr President. High house! Let me briefly comment on these draft laws. The Veterinary Act will further qualify the profession of veterinarian and will ensure that, in the healthcare profession, too, the quality assurance is at the top of the list, ensuring that not only our farm animals, but also our pets are optimally cared for and that the veterinarians as well as all other doctors have an obligation to continue training. As far as the development of the Agency for Health and Food Safety is concerned, it has been very well represented over the last two years. I would like to point out here very consciously the achievements that have been provided by staff members of the reference laboratory Mödling during the months of February, March and April at the height of the spread of poultry in the native wild birds. A recent ring test on laboratory performance involving the AGES has shown that employees are among the best in Europe. As a responsible minister, I am not only pleased to thank these employees, who also worked on weekends and at night, very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In short, the Health and Food Safety Act and the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act: Within just a few months of the EU Presidency of Austria, our employees have been able to reach an agreement between the Council and the European Parliament on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs and on the related Regulation on traditional production methods at first reading. This too is a great success. These regulations were already adopted on 31 December. ==References== This is now taken into account by this novel on the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. Obviously we work faster than the SPÖ can imagine. Let me answer the question put by Mr Maier. The Association Responsibility Act was passed by this House after the decision of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. However, it was announced before the LMSVG because the consent of the federal states was required for the rallying of the LMSVG. This procedure was considered admissible by the Constitutional Service. It is therefore necessary to consider the validity of the new provision. I cannot judge why this paragraph is missing in the RIS. However, there is a liability in the RIS. To do this, you must ask the competent authority. But you can assume that this is valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22771	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22793	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Veterinary Act there are quite a few improvements, some points to which you might agree, but there are also some points that make this impossible, for example the internship. Mr Rasinger! You are, I think, right after me, perhaps you could explain to us whether human physicians will have to do a year's internship in order to be able to conduct a house pharmacy, although human physicians have much more opportunities or can make much more than veterinarians. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Three to four years!]] I asked if they had to do an internship. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Four years!]] No, they don't have to do an internship. He didn't say that either, you have to listen! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Four years, he said!]] Practice – not internship! That's a huge difference. That is why it is because, with this new law, you really want to limit the possibility of professional practice of fully trained veterinarians. They have not been able to address our concerns in the committee either. On the contrary: You have still strengthened us in it because you and Your officials themselves said: Yeah, that's what the vet room wants! You said you would have removed the essential restrictions. But we do not see this in some areas. It's not surprising. Then: The fact that client policy is your trademark, Mrs. Federal Minister, is not new and can be seen again in this case. Also a word about the Health and Food Safety Act. To this end, I can say far away from the Jacky Maier here that, in the amendment proposal, it seems peculiar that the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry pays only 40 percent of the contributions, but continues to be in the decision-making bodies in parity with 50 percent. That also seems a bit strange to us. It is usually true that everyone is involved in the decisions in which he or she makes contributions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22862	Mr Rasinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22883	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! With this law, we decide on an improvement in an area that is actually close to me and yet alien to me, namely to the veterinarians. It is also necessary to recognize the signs of time, to demand quality, to improve where improvements are necessary. I think that conditions for veterinary specialist titles – yes, there is something like that – are absolutely necessary and come from the professional groups themselves. It is also very important that further training is pursued here. The veterinarians must be up-to-date with knowledge. In human medicine, knowledge doubles every five years. I suppose it's the same with the veterinarians. I don't think you're supposed to be so loose about it and say, What's the veterinarian supposed to do for a practical year? It makes sense, in my opinion, as the experts also say, that someone who gives and applies independent drugs has the necessary experience that he cannot necessarily acquire alone with the theoretical, partly practical study. In this sense, this law is an improvement in an area that is close to me but is not close.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22917	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22938	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Rasinger, it is not very close to me either, but I know that it is not necessary and that we cannot accept this law, just as we have tabled this amendment tabled by Mr Donabauer. This is not only because, as far as the content is concerned, we believe, as my colleague Krainer has already said, that more involvement in the decisions for the Minister of Agriculture and at the same time less paying is an unfair matter, but also because this is a procedure that we reject. They did not avant or deliver the application in due time. So I really don't see any reason to say yes here. As Mr Lichtenegger referred to: I think the sport in this House is really something very different, but probably far too little worth than that one should do so, because there we have at least conducted the negotiations in time and yet rather consensual. Mrs Bundesminister, on the veterinary law already referred to: I also find it simple and simply scandalous when you are finished trained veterinary physicians a year away from the market with the excuse that they would still have to qualify to conduct a house apothecary, which, on the other hand, the Veterinary Chamber demands of them. I think that this is only cheap labour for doctors already affluent, and that is why we reject it in this form. Mrs Bundesminister, however, I would like to make a very special point on a request, and this is Mr Maier's request on the legal measures against Alkopops. Mrs. Federal Minister! The request was, in turn, postponed, postponed, and this is disgraceful. We have been reminded by the EU Commission that it is urgently necessary to take measures in Austria to prevent young people from drinking alcohol, excessive alcohol consumption, access to alcopops and similar means. I do not understand at all, Mrs Federal Minister, why you are still here, even inactive. In my opinion, this creates an image of health policy, which is to be rejected overall, a delay, delay, delay of important problems, generate chaos in essential areas, party-political occupations and ultimately generate additional costs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e22983	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Before I come to the vote, I shall inform you of the following: At the end of my last presidency, at around 4 p.m., Mr Neudeck, after setting up a yellow barrel entitled “No to this Environmental Pollution Act” in the direction of the speaker’s seat, said: "We're only used to bottles with the greens! Why is there a barrel now?” – I don’t think this is so funny! [[Cheerfulness with the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't say that!]] I have the Stenographical Protocol here, please. Shortly thereafter, Mr Neudeck said to the honourable Member Van der Bellen, who stood at the speaker's desk: “Why does a yellow barrel stand next to the green bottle, Mr President?” – I still don’t think this is funny! [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the wrong record!]] A comment on this mode of expression is not necessary, Mr Deputies. I'll give it to you twice in thought. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your interpretation is wrong!]] We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Health and Nutritional Safety Act and repeals the Federal Law on the Federal Veterinary Institutes in 1498 of the Supplements. Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Rasinger, Mr Lichtenegger, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority and thus at the third reading. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Veterinary Act, including the title and receipt in 1499 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their third reading approval to this draft law. – It is also the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act and the Animal Disease Act, including the title and receipt in 1500 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – It is accepted by the majority and thus. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was adopted by a majority of the majority at the third reading. [[20:25:35]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the opposition of the Federal Council (1439b) against the law decision of the National Council of 1 January 1990 on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement for persons in the territory of the Member States and on the right to freedom of movement for persons within the territory of the Member State of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the Member State of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the place of residence of the
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23085	This leads us to the 24th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Broukal. His speaking time is probably 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23113	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are therefore debating for the second time the introduction of quotas at medical universities – in principle welcome, but unfortunately not the way you have done it. In the last debate on the re-regulation of access to medical studies here in Parliament, you have led us very wrong. Tarn and fads, with the truth loosen up, as you do more often. I'm just reminding you that it's been called recently: The ÖVP is not going to schools! – It seems that I was sitting in front of my colleague Amon and a fata Morgana of colleague Brinek at the Volksschule Zieglergasse. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You were there too!]] - Yeah, but I'm not saying I'm not going to schools. They say: We're not going to schools from ÖVP. – Original quote. - Wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who said that?]] Be it as it may be. You, Mrs. Dr. Brinek, and also the Minister for Education, have promised Austria and us – and I quote the statement of the Minister for Education of the 13th century. February 2006 –: So far, there have been 1 250 places in medicine per year. From the study year 2006/2007 there will be 1 500. This is an increase of 20 percent or 250 places. So 1 500 medical courses a year. – Today we know that is not true, that was never true. They have led the public and the National Council behind the light. Only the Graz Medical Union adheres to the quota of 360 places of study announced by the Minister of Education. After a year, however, the Med-Unis Innsbruck and Vienna examine a significant percentage of students again from their studies. Result: As of the second year of study, there are only 1 240 places to study, less than the so-called 20 percent increase. There it was 1 250 more, and there were, above all, only domestics. And now we still have 25 percent of foreigners. But that's how you can, I don't think, deal with the public and not with the young people who want to study medicine. It is not possible to deal with Parliament either, nor with a social-democratic opposition, whose consent one wants to have to a law and which one takes so little seriously that one presents false figures here – and with it to the general public. [[Abg. May. Who wrote the comment, Mr. Broukal?]] I wrote the comment myself; I can still do it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can see that!]] - Oh, now you're back! Mr Klubobmann, welcome! Thank you for calling me, you really missed me! How will I survive the summer without your calls? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: How will you survive autumn? That's the question!]] But be it as it may be. So we will be in the future instead of the 1 250 medical students... – I understand [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] You're not at all because I'm talking, so you're not listening badly. You can go for a coffee with me, and then it fits! I think it won't be enough to keep this reduction to 1,240 places in the next few years. We will need more young doctors, more opportunities at universities. We from SPÖ therefore propose an extension of the medical study sites. We propose setting up 50 additional places each year and giving the Med-Unis the money for it. The era Gehrer comes to an end with this law, but that is Mrs Gehrer, I find myself guilty. She wanted to create world-class universities, but what did she create? – Study fees, access restrictions, lack of money, overcrowded hearing rooms, unsafe buildings – see Rector Gantner today in the “Kurier” – and the longest duration in Europe. Austria would and has earned better!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23231	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23253	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Broukal, the Gehrer era, i.e. the government coalition parties can present a successful, convincing and exemplary balance sheet. – Your misguided statements can't do anything to that either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Freeman – BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the UOG 2002 is also valid internationally – and asked how our speakers are the legislative proposals. Overall, the construction activity is also convincingly high. For example, rectors of the University of Vienna wonder why under SPÖ Minister it was never possible to finally make a jewellery castle out of the University of Vienna, as is now done. [[Abg. Krainer: We have given hope!]] Countries that have access regulations quite differently look at Austria, as we have come to an increase in the number of students – in the case of measured budget policies. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, come to the real subject and say: The SPÖ has operated through its opposition in the Federal Council of Insurance Policy in relation to the universities; some even speak of a time-consuming. Thank God we can fix this today, so that security for medical universities and for the students at the universities will occur at all. The SPÖ, on the other hand, creates uncertainty by collaborating in false numbers about medical needs – and even the universities assume that they would “sleep” in the summer, in the so-called third semester. – Mr Broukal, it produced great annoyance at the universities when you said that a third semester should be offered in summer – as if there were staff hanging around in sun loungers or somewhere else. The other was the great annoyance at the Medical University about the uncritical takeover of the facts and figures regarding medical overtime. You know exactly that there is only a time balance at the Medical University of Vienna until 2007. And you, Mr Broukal, have not caused any correction to your claims. So the disappointment about your attitude to dealing with facts and figures is very great. The Austrian People's Party stands for an honest handling of figures, an honest handling of budget resources – and an honest effort to get the best possible study conditions. We do so with the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23329	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23352	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Brinek, you might think you're an honorary member of the Schlaraffia connection, so great you're describing everything, but: [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ]] There's no trace of honesty! As you, Mrs Brinek, spoke of “insurance”: Do you think that the Chamber of Physicians, the rectors' conference – and itself – is so ignorant that these three institutions, namely the government parties, the rectors' conference and the Chamber of Physicians, will not know who has the majority in Parliament and will carry through the quota arrangement promised to the rectors' conference?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, but she would have wanted a greater agreement!]] The students also know that you are going through this, and there is no uncertainty – except, you want and do such! And something else: Do you think that we would have contributed to the quota regime, almost as an emergency action, “debt” and many years of failure in the run-up to the ECJ, if the government and the rector conference had kept a word and had come up with discussions with us to increase the reliability of the choice of study, to improve the quality of study and support quotas, to approach international numbers of transition rates among students from Matura to study and to establish capacities to address capacity deficits with political measures?- Oh, my God! You didn't do all that! Not even the average number of students or the numbers of the candidates of the last three years could you hold, but you just prayed that down; however, nothing happened! We would certainly have agreed to this – and again: We didn't have any uncertainty! Mrs Brinek, I wish you a great deal of pleasure with Schlaraffia – in the desert of this permit regime!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23415	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23436	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Professor Grünewald, Mr Broukal: It is very likely that an uncertainty has occurred with the students and also at the universities through their slowing tactics. [[Abg. Krainer: Hope is germinated!]] I am very surprised, especially with you, Mr Broukal, because You have shown very good approaches in itself, you were still in September last year, until this February, for the quota arrangement. You, Mr Broukal, have called for this, as has a rapid implementation. But now that this quota arrangement is on the table, you are against it at once – and it is obvious that time does not play a role in you either; now at once any delay is right for you. – You can really see, Mr Broukal: You are not interested in solutions! You only have real interest in criticism of this federal government, even if it was originally your own idea. But now all of this doesn't matter to you, so obviously according to the motto: The main thing is, it's against this federal government! [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As admission procedures and numerus clausus are always levelled and students are tried to suggest that university access will no longer be free in the future, I would like to say quite clearly that these admission procedures are aptitude tests, but not because of school notes that are in matura certificates, but rather because of fitness tests that are the same for everyone – no matter which school someone comes from. As far as financing is concerned, you have also mentioned this again, Mr Broukal, there is always only the attempt to spread panic and uncertainty. Have you mentioned that Austria is the only country in Europe that has set a global budget for three years, from 2007 to 2009, so a budget that is guaranteed for three years?- Oh, my God! Moreover, this budget will rise by more than 11 percent from next year! But don't say that; you're pretending it doesn't matter! [[Abg. Broukal: Have you heard that this is not true because VAT has been forgotten?]] Mr Groenewald, Mr Broukal: Talk to your colleagues again – and think about solutions! And: Perhaps you will agree, because this law is really in the sense of Austrian universities and in the sense of Austrian students.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23514	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Kuntzl. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23536	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In addition to the dissatisfying solution regarding the rates of medical students, there is another problem, namely, the restrictions on access to other fields of study addressed by Mrs Achleitner: in pharmacy, psychology, business administration, biologists and publicity – in other words, in subjects where a storm has failed; we have looked at the figures for this. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have always said that access restrictions are necessary as an emergency measure, as individual study areas are so overcrowded. – That’s not true! This has not been the case in this field, and this therefore confirms the presumption that we have always had: that it has only been a matter of introducing further restrictions on access, so after the tuition fees more a barrier. Young people are thus denied the opportunity to actually complete the training they want to do. In Graz, 280 young people who wanted to study pedagogy were rejected – and at this institute in Graz it was calculated that saying and writing 26 778 € would be necessary to enable these 280 young people to study. However, Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has refused to make available these funds, which are very small, compared with, for example, how much the Minister of State spends on pointless advertising campaigns, campaigns that the Austrians are only trying to talk about, that there are school reforms; something that in reality does not exist at all. I think it would be very, very important for the future of Austria to invest in the training of young people – and there these missing €26 000 would be very well arranged. Therefore, from this point of view from the appeal to you, Mrs Bundesminister Geher: It would be an act of humanity to make these resources available!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23584	Next item is the report by Mr Brader. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23605	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Kuntzl, how to study with 26 000 € 280 students, you have to tell me that! There's no such thing as that! Secondly, to the initial stages of the study. These are not arbitrary, but it is quite good that they exist, because it is simply necessary for the students to get an orientation, that is, whether the studies mean something to them at all and whether they can handle them. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it!]] Now to the opposition of the SPÖ and the Greens in the Federal Council against a law that amends the University Law 2002. For me, the reasoning is not understandable. In my opinion, a good regulation for Austrian students is deliberately being threatened or delayed. Criticism of your process also comes from the high school, from the rector's conference. It goes in the direction that you only create uncertainty with this rejection. I'll tell you one thing: I won't let go of the feeling that You deliberately stir this uncertainty. They give themselves to the deceptive hope that you can beat political capital out of it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it!]] I believe that this is moral and disgraceful, and you should really avoid it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, your educational zigzag course in the field of universities is already grandios. You have to understand this: ==References== In September 2005, the SPÖ called for a special meeting to be held on an emergency programme for new places of study. ==References== In December, Gusenbauer called for a return to the old regime. ==References== In December, Gusenbauer called for the re-establishment of free access to higher education. ==References== In January 2006, Broukal called for a return to the country of origin principle. In January, Broukal called for a regime for cross-border student flows in the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Zickzack!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: zigzag course!]] ==References== In February 2006, Broukal requested approval from the EU Commission of the Safeguard regime. It was intended to declare that it would agree to the scheme. But this was not because the EU cannot intervene in ongoing parliamentary processes. I think that this unprecedented back and forth is due only to the presumption that you simply want to create uncertainty in order to beat political capital out of it yourself. I believe that this is a measure which is not entirely to be blamed.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23686	Mrs Fuhrmann is speaking. [[Abg. Fuhrmann doesn't rise from her place.]] – Mrs Silvia Fuhrmann is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23710	Mr President. I have expected Mr Niederwieser in myself, but apparently the SPÖ does not want to say anything on this issue here. This is probably better anyway, because if I let the speeches of the SPÖ Revue take place, I have to say the following: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] Mrs Mag. Kuntzl, for example, said that especially the storm had failed on the subject of biology and journalism. This reminds me of Mr Broukal, who, after the decision of the ECJ judgment, meant that you should not worry that the German students would not come anyway. Then it turned out that 50 percent of all medical students came from Germany very well. [[Abg. Broukal: What I said! Can you tell me when and where?- Oh, my God!]] - Yes. And then you were suddenly of the opinion that the Minister had acted too late, that you should have acted earlier, even though you had just thought that you didn't have to worry about it anyway. [[Abg. Broukal: This was Minister Gehrer who said there was no storm, not me!]] If you think you can do it in politics – and you should know that you have been there for a long time – as you want, I have to say: This is not the right way, especially when it comes to politics or your approaches being carried out on the back of young people, on the back of the students! Mr. Dr. Grünewald said that it was clear that the ÖH, also the Medical Chamber and the Rectors' Conference, on the basis of the knowledge that the ÖVP and the government will be boxing through this. I wonder what this has to do with the other. On the contrary! Especially the ÖH and the doctor's chamber are very critical spirits. If even those in favour of this regulation are in place, it is all the more correct and all the more important that we do so today. It's a shame that this hasn't happened before. The Federal Council has blocked, but this is your way of making politics: Block, prevent and make life difficult for young people! We certainly don't.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23785	Mr Zweytick. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23807	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the rules of democratic parliamentarianism in Austria that we are here to object to the Federal Council, which today, with the current insistence decision, is reabsorbing, finally putting an end to this inconsistency debate, and also finding a truly solution-oriented approach in which the least students concerned can live. [[Abg. Broukal: Mrs. Brinek doesn't believe that!]] The general uncertainty is given and is very big. You have to see that from all sides. We did not want this, Mr President, but there are the rules of this House which belong to it. I do not want to repeat what my previous speakers said, but there are previous speakers of the opposition with statements like “Fata Morgana” and “Schlaraffia – in the desert” in this debate here at the speaker’s desk. I finish my speech with the words “compulsory zigzag course of the SPÖ, the opposition”.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23871	The following speech was spoken as Mr Dr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23892	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We reject this amendment, not for general reasons, but because it continues to maintain access restrictions in five fields of study without need. You know: That is the main reason for this rejection. We think the regulation in medicine is practical. Whether she's holding or not, we'll see. Constitutional judges like Theo Öhlinger and Heinz Mayer have their doubts. We suggest that the ministers and the government parties have constantly changed the rules, failed to comply with commitments, and not ensure that the conditions of study are in place at the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] As far as commitments are concerned. The first commitment, colleague Brinek – and there have been several rounds of negotiations – was that as many medical students are admitted as they have been on average over the last three years. It's even in the law. That would have been 3 500, then it became 1 500, and now it's only 1 240. When you introduce the tuition fees, you have promised that the study conditions will be significantly improved. In reality, the opposite has happened. As an example, I mention here only the situation at pedagogy at the University of Graz. You don't take your responsibility. If students turn to the ministry to get help because compulsory courses do not take place and thereby lose semesters, they flash off at the ministry, although the ministry would be responsible for providing proper study conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: These lump-sum convictions...!]] In his speech, the Federal Chancellor explains how much the government takes care of youth. In reality, youth unemployment increased from 34 000 in April 2000 to 59 500 in April 2006. This is an increase of more than 70 percent. That means “care for youth ”? – We only hope that you will no longer take care of youth, otherwise we will soon have 100,000 unemployed young people! Instead, via a mail server from the Ministry, you will have the jubilant passages spread from this party event at the schools. This is a process that has so far only been known by totalitarian states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The SPÖ rejects this innovation because we also want to give a clear signal that we are in favour of free university access and that it is our educational policy goal that everyone who has developed a study place through Matura, professional maturity exam or study qualification exam. We recommend that the ÖVP and the F – BZÖ in Bälde will finally adopt this decision on free access to higher education.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e23946	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research in 1449. For the purposes of paragraph 82(2), point 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Committee shall submit the application, the original decision of the National Council of 1 January 1993. On 1 March 2006 a Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 was adopted. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority. It's accepted. Thus, in accordance with Article 42(4) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council has repeated its original decision. [[20:50:00]] 25. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1412, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Railway Act 1957, the Federal Railway Act and the Federal Act establishing a “Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft” (1501 d.b.) 26. Point Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspection (Transport Labour Inspection Act) (1502 d.b.) 27. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 716/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on ensuring the maintenance of the Austrian railway infrastructure through the fastest possible re-unification of ÖBB infrastructure works AG and ÖBB infrastructure Bau AG (1503 d.b.) 28. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 534/A (E) by Mr Kurt Eder, Members and colleagues on the construction of the station in Vienna – Europe in the middle of (1504 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24038	We now come to points 25 to 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24065	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting for me to note that neither in the Transport Committee nor here today on the Government Bank of the Minister of Transport for Transport Policy is interested in important measures. He seems not to be interested in these things anyway. [[Abg. Krainer: He's got to stick to his chair like that!]] Perhaps the next time we expect a new Minister of Transport, the Federal Chancellor should give the green light to this – for the time being this is not the case. But it would be nice if we in Austria had a transport minister who would participate in debates on transport policy issues in the Transport Committee and also here at the Government Bank. I think that would be very good. [[Abg. Wittauer: There is no transport minister doing more!]] On the other hand, I have to say that we are already very used to Mr Kukacka, who is actually in a very professional way – although not always my opinion – at least tries to uphold the flags of the ministry. [[Abg. May. Controller: Good man!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What do you think the Minister must be good at first?- Oh, my God!]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I can now come to the agenda on the real issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: A dangerous statement! ...!]] Mr Scheibner, you can say that, because no one is doing this with you at the moment, I think. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God!]] - All right, then that's all right. Let me say a few things about the content! There are a number of changes to the Railway Act. I must say in advance that we are not going to agree to these changes today, because – and I would like to point this out in an introductory statement – the rapid increase in scope and the inconsistency of this whole law almost make a reasonable application impossible. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is an implementation of an EU directive!]] – I am not that far, Mr Wittauer. This law, which also contains many other things, will create culprits whose culprit results from the non-complete execution of this law. For example, we have not correctly implemented an EU Security Directive. It is true that there is no audit authority at all, no railway safety authority that would control the entire implementation of the Directive. It's like making a lot of laws in the road transport system, but it doesn't have police controls. In future, all trains in Europe will be able to drive through our railway network. They do have to comply with regulations, but no one controls them. Another point concerns § 28, which regulates the recruitment of railway tracks. It is more important to go away from transport policy aspects, to business aspects. There is no objection to this at first, but it is so much loosened that I believe that transport policy aspects play a far too little role. Another point is the timetable for passenger transport, which is more difficult, because, of course, in the case of road scarcity, goods transport – I know, this is a problematic story – should be given appropriate advantages, which should be in the main traffic time. Whatever the main traffic time, this is not defined here. [[Abg. Wittauer: But only if three or four people sit inside!]] We will vote in favour of an amendment dealing with transport labour inspection, because we believe that a reasonable measure has been taken on the part of the government in order to protect workers at the last moment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24200	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24222	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With these laws, we are basically dealing with three points. Firstly, the market for goods is liberalised. Secondly, we attach a comprehensive security package. And we're simplifying the third procedure. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to report the following: We had very interesting discussions in committee. Mrs Moser has assumed that, with these laws, which we now decide, we want to change the structural reform of the ÖBB in a way through the back door. [[Abg. Wittauer: But only guessed!]] – Mr Moser, we will certainly not do that, because the ÖBB structural reform was simple and simply gold-right. This also shows the press conference on the balance sheet: There are passenger passenger passenger trains, sales records in freight transport, investment records in infrastructure expansion. Productivity has been significantly increased. So we're on a good path here! – As has already been said, the structure of the ÖBB will certainly not be changed. The second point is the question of transport. The issue of “near traffic reform” is quite a matter of concern to us. I would like to point out – and this was an interesting aspect in the Committee meeting – that we have only a 4 to 10 percent cost coverage in the field of the secondary railways. If the business software under the steirerhut still works half way, you should already think about alternative models. Whether it's quite reasonable that you bring a railway into each valley, I think it's questionable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24272	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24293	Mr President. Mr Kukacka, it is a pleasant habit for us to welcome you as always. [[Abg. Neudeck: Be glad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This legislative matter would really be the last opportunity of this government – and I am very grateful that this government will not be at work for much longer in this form – to create better conditions for railway policy in order to ensure that what every railway expert and railway expert recommends is implemented, namely the combination of ÖBB infrastructure company AG and ÖBB infrastructure Bau AG, to reintroduce it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Read in the international expert journals! Listen to Mr. Mehdorn alone from the Deutsche Bahn! He'd like to reverse all the divisions. Talk to Director Huber of the ÖBB too! Work and construction actually belong together - You don't do that! - That's point one. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is just so you can hide something!]] Point two: The changes to the railways you are proposing here are the fact that the competence problem is getting stronger. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you the press officer of Mr. Huber?]] It is not security as such that becomes stronger, but the division of competence between district captains, countries and federal authorities is increasing. Unfortunately, in Austria, we have – and my colleague Eder has already explained this clearly – not a railway authority such as in Switzerland or Germany, but only a much too small department in the ministry. – This is the second essential criticism. The third main criticism is: This railway legislation gives priority to the goods by giving priority to freight transport outside of the time of impact. The clock traffic for the people, for the people is subordinate. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not right!]] - Yes, it is! I have received enough information from the ÖBB. I'm calling on information from the ÖBB, and that's where it stands. – This is the third criticism point. [[Abg. Wittauer: The information gives it itself! That's not true!]] The fourth criticism is that it facilitates this Railway Act to set up regional railways. I know the heads of state still have to be heard. Only: Listening is a weaker integration factor than what now exists. I do not see that the financial and structural problems of the ÖBB as a whole stem from the fact that regional railways are simply abandoned more or less and that it is still very difficult for private individuals to take over and continue to operate such endangered trains under these legal conditions which you have set up. Unfortunately, because of the lack of time, I no longer have the opportunity to present you with more than these four main criticisms. It is clear that we therefore reject this structural reform, but we very much agree with the present Transport Labour Inspectorate Improvement Act, as I now call it out of the sleeve. As I said, Too bad, miss a chance! But this Minister for Transport, Mr Gorbach, unfortunately, has been nothing but this variant of a lack of implementation of an EU directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24389	The amendment tabled by Dr Gabriela Moser, friends and friends in his key points is sufficiently commentable and is under negotiation, according to § 43 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are distributed to Members and annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24528	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24549	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Eder and Mrs Moser, the first thing you are dealing with is not the content, but the fact whether the Minister for Transport is there or whether he is not there. He is well represented by the State Secretary. So what kind of problem is there? You'll get the answers you need. And I think the content is always more important than the rest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] – Mr Marizzi, you are not asked in this case now! If Mrs Moser says that freight transport is a matter of passenger transport, I say: That's horrible! Good transport comes before passenger traffic in the night hours, if perhaps three, four people are on the train, then you have to set a priority. This is handled internationally, and it is of course also important for the railway that the goods are transported from A to B. Anyone who lives in a valley knows what's going on when such a freight train stops. No one can sleep there because you hear this sound everywhere. I therefore believe that it is important that freight transport is carried out in a liquid manner if only three or four people have to wait. I think that is also understandable from the logic. To the sideways: The secondary lanes cannot be adjusted by this law, but the whole procedure will be simplified. The Heads of State have agreed, and they have therefore agreed because they have hearing rights. When I take Tyrol as an example: The Zillertalbahn, a secondary railway, works super, Scharnitz, taken over by private people, works super. So why not continue this path and support it and see that these trams are better managed under private law?- Oh, my God! If you have to look for a solution for three years or a private person who rises up and only then the next mechanism comes to bear, then it can't be wrong. It is also in line with the countries that will be very careful that their interests will not be undermined. I am not afraid that in this case the heads of state will not be able to prevail or get involved. With regard to the secondary railways: There must be every single person to think about when trains and buses drive at the same time. These two areas should be coordinated differently in such a case. If a runway has 5 percent coverage, how does the community get to pay this 5 percent by 100 percent? It must be legitimate, in view of taxpayers, if the supply is ensured, to have a discussion about whether or not to set up such a railway. I think, Mr Mayor, if you find alternatives in your community that are cheaper, then you will also use them. You can't always say right from the outset: What exists must also remain! As far as the railway is concerned, I have to say: The ÖBB reform was a good reform, even if that is very critical of you from the opposition. Until the mud is cleaned up by the social democracy at the railway, it takes some time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But at the annual press conference we have already heard that there is a plus of €10 million. That's a success story! That's why you might clap for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24610	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24631	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Wittauer, this Federal Government is already in charge of the cleavage which is now in place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the present draft law, Mr Cot, the devil is in detail. There are some shortcomings, some abuses, some disadvantages, and I want to get them to the point. First of all: Skills and tasks are outsourced. Secondly, Official control and surveillance bodies responsible for the safety of railway operations are clearly missing from this law. Thirdly, Decisions on track settings will be the responsibility of railway operators in the future. National leaders, countries have nothing to say about this, the political components are completely missing here. What does that mean for the sideways? What does that mean for the rural regions? Put to the point: The business calculation is placed before the interests and needs of the people. One of the most important points that Mr Wittauer has made: This law makes it difficult for public transport to be designed in a tactful manner. Networking will no longer be possible, and this in turn means a massive and absolute loss of quality in public transport to the detriment of customers, to the detriment of users. Sincere transport services contracts cannot be fulfilled, they must be terminated early. Last point: Priority transport of goods at the expense of passenger transport. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true! Now I've just told you that's not true!]] In summary, Mr Wittauer: They weaken the attractiveness of regional transport by deciding on this proposal. They weaken the safety and quality of the railway undertaking. They weaken political competence and destroy the goal of our common goal, a modern and forward-looking railway. That is why we will not give this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24677	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24698	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Once again: Mr Eder, Mrs Binder, Mrs Moser, it is by no means a restriction on passenger transport and a priority for freight transport. It is rather the case that the countries can define major traffic times. Why the countries? Because there are not similar situations and similar needs everywhere in Austria, unfortunately there is also not a registered local transport everywhere. It is clear that there will be the possibility and need to give priority to localised transport whenever people ride with it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a public transport of goods, and that it should be a priority sometime around midnight before the private transport of goods would lead too far if we were serious about improving the quality of rail transport and moving goods to rail. If you talk to a tailor and ask him why there are no more transports on the rail, then the first thing he says is not, the road is so nice cheap, but he says: The Austrian Federal Railways are still very bad from logistics, the trains are so untimely. We would like to, but – More competition on the rails will also help improve quality here, and this must be an important concern for all of us together. Without these regulatory measures, which can at all bring competition at all, we cannot achieve that at all. So today we ensure both local transport and a reasonable and efficient transport of goods on the rails. A very short example: Today, in another case, a managing director of a large steel construction company was with me. This one on the edge here in the house told me: Imagine, I just got a load of steel carriers, eight railway wagons full of steel carriers from Italy. Three days ago, on Friday, I asked the ÖBB when the train arrived. The ÖBB's answer on Friday was: We don't know, maybe in one or two days, but it can only be in 14 days! On Monday, so yesterday, he got the call that he had eight hours to discharge the train in an hour. There he had to organize all trucks for unloading in an hour – this is almost impossible. That's not how it is! [[Abg. Marizzi: You're in government!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know how the new ÖBB structure is, how committed the newly employed managers are, but we also know that trade-unioned middle construction workers are trying to retain some of the old and loved habits of the Austrian Federal Railways.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24747	Mrs Rester-Hintersie is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24768	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Mrs Hakl, you must not have been on the train for a long time, otherwise you would know that there are hardly any more people who would have been employed there, namely the so-called Indians. One can sum up the entire ÖBB restructuring in this way: Too many heads and far too few Indians left. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This goes through the entire transport sector at all: two State Secretarys, a minister who is never here anyway – and two State Secretarys, so to speak, in the Transport Committee, interestingly, two opinions: While Mr Kukacka, Secretary of State of Kukacka, welcomed this change in the law that the money saved in the regions for closure of routes would benefit the local transport sector, Mr Mainoni – still in the same committee meeting – demanded that saved money remain in the federal state, although Mr Kukacka had previously said that this was regulated by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Therefore again: too many heads, too few Indians for actual implementation! Instead of correcting the division in Bau AG and Betrieb AG, it is established that Bau AG can also operate. – Again: too many heads! And then who's going to put all this into practice?- Oh, my God! Furthermore, a lot of interfaces, but no communication. We also had to see this in the Committee, because how else could it happen that the transport of persons by public transport by public transport to our Member States has been called upon to prevent this massive loss of quality in the area of passenger transport? In the interest of ÖBB's customers, Mrs Goldmann asks to refrain from limiting the priority of public-sector cross-border orders at major traffic times. Again: far too many heads, far too few Indians to implement all of this! [[Abg. Wittauer: Where does the woman Goldmann come from? It's better to work and not to criticize!]] In the end, empty regions, Mr Wittauer, remain, because people no longer find any transport at all! Example: Pinzgauer Regionalbahn, where the route from Bramberg to Krimml is to be blocked at all. Should people go there with the tretroller or whatever? There is no concept for regional railways; there is no concept for public passenger transport – and we are still waiting for the 2000 evaluation. There is still no such thing, although it has been announced for a long time. Too many heads and no implementation of the results!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24817	I call Mr Wattaul.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24838	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Now we should really get to the point again. This item on the agenda is about implementing an EU Security Directive. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The core of the reform is the introduction of safety management and quality assurance systems. Mrs. Rester-Hinterseer, who said that there are too many “headers” at the ÖBB: You know very well that what is going on in public passenger transport, of course, is not ordering the federal railways, but the countries that have to pay for this in part; the federal government is only helping with it. However, it is certain that the company of ÖBB needs, of course, an order in relation to the travel document. In this context, criticism has come today, which is more contrary to reality than to reality. The reality shows a real success story: Never before has a federal government invested so much money in the expansion of the ÖBB infrastructure! Of course, the taxpayer therefore has a right to the fact that ÖBB is a customer-oriented company. That is of course! The next criticism when it was said that passenger transport must take precedence. – On the one hand, we all want to try to bring freight transport to the rails. Then you come from the opposition but you say: No, if a person is driving, then the passenger train must be kept free; we must not drive there just in time. You only show that you are not actually for the railways, but are purely party-political, and in reality the Austrian Federal Railways do not matter to you. They believe they can beat political capital from it by trying to make the Minister of Transport bad – and this, although Federal Minister Gorbach has planned infrastructure rail with these companies in such a way, so that the ÖBB can just calm down into the future that the ÖBB will be made a company that will be able to compete successfully with other companies in Europe in the future. In this case, you should not always try to beat political change, but you really have to think a little further: also in the interest of the ÖBB employees, because they also have a right to work in a well-run company, in a competitive company.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24892	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24914	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present Novelle Railway Act, public transport and rural infrastructure are even more weakened. Although you always pretend to support and protect rural areas, in daily work, you make all the contributions to achieve the opposite. That is why we will not give our approval to this proposal either. With this template, you will facilitate the closing of secondary trains, not least because you have weakened the position of the national leaders, and you will also allow blackmailing with this template, because the formula will be: Either pay more or close! Also, with the fact that there are no guidelines for necessary planned closures, you open arbitrary door and gate. The Federal Government increasingly accepts its responsibilities: from the responsibility of financing local transport and now also from the responsibility of transport policy as a whole. This is a very worrying development. We are also against this template because we do not find it okay that managers decide on settings. The recruitment of secondary trains is always a transport policy decision, and therefore we also want these decisions to make the policy and not any manager. Mr State Secretary, if you really don't want to be responsible for anything, the question is whether we need you at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24954	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Controller.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e24975	Mr President. High house! During this legislative period, the largest reform in the Austrian railway industry has been decided since the Second World War, and today we are setting the last building block in this system change, which took place under the leadership of State Secretary Helmut Kukacka and which would never have come without his initiative. We have really found a new, forward-looking form here. Today, we are implementing the second EU railway package in Austrian law. I have already said in committee that I am surprised that the opposition does not agree with that, as there have already been parliamentary questions as to why this railway package is not being implemented. There is also a reduction in the duration of the procedure so that railways can be built faster, and the circle of unauthorised projects will also be extended – all in favour of our railways! We have also today to deal with the request made by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, who has requested the fastest possible re-unification of ÖBB infrastructure operation with ÖBB infrastructure construction. We will reject this request because, in the present structure and also with the allocations contained in the package now included, there is a clear, clear, appropriate allocation to construction and operation. Thirdly, we have the request made by Mr Kurt Eder on the construction of the station in Vienna – Europe in the middle. For more than 20 years, the Vienna ÖVP has been trying to ensure that the two main stations Vienna-Süd and Vienna-Ost create a transit station with European quality. The current Federal Government has secured this, the financial resources are ready. We now only have to wait for all the approval procedures, then this really big project, which is very important for Vienna, can be started. If we reject this request today, of course, this does not mean that we are going off our demand now at once and thus making a child-moving, but that means that it is simply a leaping up of the SPÖ that we do not vote here. We stand at this station, and the funds are secured by this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25024	Mrs Scharer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25045	Ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely worrying in terms of transport policy that the government template considerably facilitates a railway undertaking's continuing operation of a secondary railway. It allows the ÖBB, for example, to permanently set up transport links necessary for the supply of rural areas. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] This Federal Government disapproves of its supply contract. For example, 28 secondary trains from 74 in total in Austria are already on a runoff list. My region is also affected. For example, the 53-kilometre traffic from Zell am See to Krimml, the Pinzgauer Bahn, is to be adjusted and sold. Instead of promoting the development of a modernized, customer-oriented railway, the German Federal Government's support for Pinzgauer Bahn is generous for road development and public bus traffic in view. [[Abg. Wittauer:... the flood between...!]] – Mr Wittauer, you also said in the Committee that the contractual agreements that existed in front of the flood in Mittersill no longer apply after the flood. – That’s how your support looks! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is still in a national park region with over 1.6 million nights, with day-to-day tourists, with a population dependent on good public transport connections! Their arguments were purely business-oriented! – It’s really unfortunate that you can’t think in any way any more of a people’s economy, or that you don’t want to think about location security and relocation of freight traffic from the road to the rail – what about environmental protection in a national park region? – that you do not comply with the supply contract, the needs of the population and the fact that better transport links have a positive impact on tourism, economic and labour market in a region, and that you no longer remember the workers, students, pensioners and the needs of a region. That, ladies and gentlemen, will be the region, people will not be pleased!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25101	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25137	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this legislative initiative, the Federal Government is authorised to sell shares in Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft to ÖBB Infrastructure Bau AG and to ÖBB Infrastructure Betrieb AG. Just from Tyrol The Brenner-Base Tunnel project has a great scope and meaning: It is about burdening our population, creating prospects for the economy, and securing the location of Tyrol as a whole. The fact is that truck transit is increasing, that we need alternatives and these alternatives are surely only and alone in the train, but that, in order to shift traffic from road to rail, we need to create the infrastructure first. The Unterinntaltrasse is under construction, so it also needs the next step, and this is about the follow-up project Brenner-Basistunnel. I believe it is important that the railway is ready for the future when it comes to developing intelligent transport solutions, and that one is also involved in these transport solutions. The investment in the Brenner base tunnel is of great importance to the population: less noise, fewer pollutants. It is about securing the economic location and ensuring jobs in the country, but it is also about setting up the ÖBB as a company for the future, so that the ÖBB can also participate in terms of reorganising and professionalising rail transport in Austria and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25175	I call Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25196	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittauer, of course the Minister of Transport should be in the Committee at least once or twice a year – he has been safe, but not more often! And Mr. State Secretary Kukacka is always sitting here! It's almost perverse: We almost love him because he's always with us. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] No, really. We like him already – yes! – because the minister is never here. [[Demonstratetive applause and bravoruf at the ÖVP]] I mean, he's paid for it, too; I'm not strapping it now. Mr Wattaul – he is currently not in the hall – said that this railway was a success story, and Mrs Hakl from Tyrol said that the steel carriers had not come in due time. – And do you know what that means? – The employees are to blame, not the management! The employees are to blame! As Mr Missethon has said that these are a record story: yes, in advertising expenditure! That's where we place a little bit in the newspapers so they're a little nicer to us. – And on the other hand, it is also a success story in the post chess, you know that exactly. [[Abg. Wittauer: But there is... and the Goldman and...! There are more Social Democrats than...!]] We have two good reasons to reject this law – you know that exactly, we discussed it in committee. In the Committee we have said that we need an independent authority, because this law is not a security law, but an insecurity law! If anyone controls himself, then it shouldn't be that way – you know that very well. The second story, which is of course also very nice, that's the sideways story. There is the secret plan, the strictly secret ÖBB plan in the FORMAT: All the sideways are closed. Mr Missethon said that we don't need a sidecar in every valley, we don't need it. – You have to explain this to the mayors and the population! Of course, one or other runway won't be so successful, but once a runway is closed – and of the 74 you want to close this year, according to the secret report, the strictly secret ÖBB plan in the FORMAT, 16 – you have to explain this to the voters. Then you have to agree with the mail chess you are currently operating on the railway. I wish you a warm welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25248	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25269	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Marizzi! Before the declarations of love go on to the ÖVP [[Abg. Dr. One: Not to the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Eder: Only to the Secretary of State!]] I would also like to make a statement of love to the chairman of the Transport Committee, but if our Transport Committee chairman is here and says that he is actually against the change – well, I did not expect anything else anyway; he would have been the first Social Democratic in these four years, who would have voted for change – then that is already remarkable. I can give you an account of this change. They were at the ÖBB structural reform when we discussed and negotiated for weeks. This was one of the largest reform projects in the Federal Government. If you read in the balance sheet of the ÖBB, then you will see: Increase by one million, 28 million passengers in long-distance transport, in passenger transport. 191 million use the railway. – That’s change, that’s positive. – 174 million saved. – This is reform course, and you could jump on this train. That would be positive once, and you could argue for a change. I can tell you one more thing: Her colleague from the SPD – that was a long time ago – was 1995, the then SPD chairman in Germany Rudolf Scharping – who is no longer available – said just before the Bundestag election:... [[Abg. Eder: He's still alive!]] Yes, but politically no more, you know it very well. Mr Lafontaine was still on his side at the time, and there is no longer any such thing. [[Abg. Eder: He's still alive!]] – Yes, they all still live, but they have been lost on the long way. Sharping then said: If we had had the courage to change that the Austrian government had, Germany would be different today. [[Abg. Marizzi: 1995!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: 1995!]] – You should remember that! That's the engine we need to change. We have a lot of things in front of us. With this amendment of the Railways Act, we have taken an important step towards new consumer legislation, to health and safety regulations. The reform train also runs without you. If you want to jump up: It's still time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25372	Mrs Fleckl.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25393	Mr President. Mr Rädler, it is a pleasure if the ÖBB transports people abroad, but if the people who want to drive commuters in the regions 20 kilometres, they cannot do so because there are no trains in these regions with which they can drive. That's fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not an invention on our part, but you only need to go out to the people once and talk to them. Or take the train yourself, then you'll see how far you're going to get. There are no more lines. Since 2000, that is, since the Federal Government is in office, there has simply been no more mobility for the population! And especially in rural areas, it has become dramatically worse. I don't know, are you hiding in Vienna all the time, so that you're no longer on the road in the districts? Talk to people, and listen to their concerns! Closes of routes are already on the agenda. People are becoming increasingly difficult to get from A to B by public transport. There are many reasons for this: Filleting the ÖBB – they call it quite nice and camouflaged “reform” – failed semmering base tunnel – as the ÖVP can sing a song of it in the Styria – and persistent shifts and transfers of skills to the countries. One last study I would like to mention before the time runs out, a study from Upper Austria, in which it means that people have to be mobile in order to be able to take jobs at all, or they will migrate from the districts. [[Abg. Wittauer: We create work in the regions, unlike what you do!]] I suppose you have also read this study, especially women. What you do again with this law is to get people out of mobility and drive them out of the regions. The heads of state have appealeds to you. They just had a week for an opinion – you know how the slut that is inside you really thinks – and they are concerned with legitimate concerns. [[Call to the Freeman – BZÖ:This is an implementation of an EU directive!]] Shame, shame for the people, shame for the pendlers! General care doesn't matter to you anymore, just more operational feasibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25446	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25468	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to hold any more fundamental debates on the issue of railways, but I would just like to make a few misconceptions correctly. It has been said that the railways set up the secondary railways and not the policy. – You have to read the law, there’s exactly how it works: The Authority and thus also the policy and the head of state give the consent to the permanent or temporary termination of a railway line. [[Abg. Eder: Hearings! Hearings!]] So it doesn't change any of these skills at all. As in the past, the head of state has a hearing right where he is not an authority himself. Otherwise, the authority will set up no one else, ladies and gentlemen. – First point that was misrepresented here. Another point: It has been said that the cycle traffic is now no longer guaranteed. – That is, of course, completely incorrect. It has only been recorded that passenger traffic has priority within the main traffic times. And outside the main traffic times, i.e. usually at night, the trams-allocated authority – and this is company AG – can also give priority to public goods transport. Yeah, please, when else, if not at night? And that is, of course, one-bright opinion, that is the desire and request of the Bundesbahn and also of the transporting economy that this is handled in such a way. Unfortunately, what has been said about the secondary train concept is also incorrect. There have been no stops, there has not been a reduction in the number of kilometres, but it has been extended over the last five years, ladies and gentlemen. So there's a bigger range of trains and no less. That too must be determined. Mrs. Moser, if you are dealing with the infrastructure and the structural issues and are quoting a representative of the Deutsche Bahn or Mr Huber, please, because the Deutsche Bahn has a very similar system, of course also a distributed project and construction company, which plans to build and large-scale investments, as well as with us, either to the company AG or to private companies, exactly as we do. It is also true with us that the company AG carries out the maintenance. At the Deutsche Bahn this is the same thing. So, Mr Mehdorn, if you really ask him, you would confirm that the Deutsche Bahn has in principle solved the structural questions as much as we do. By the way, in Germany, the railway wants to go to the stock exchange; that is something that the Social Democrats represent there too. This is not even the popular party in Austria. A third point, ladies and gentlemen: It has been said that we need an independent railway authority. – I note that it was this government that has made sure that an independent investigation body was created for the investigation of accidents that happened to the railway and which have always been examined by the railway itself. Of course, it is also now the case that new mandatory audits and certifications have been introduced in all security checks. Ladies and gentlemen, this novel shows again: With every innovation, with every innovation in the railway industry, the ÖBB, rail transport in Austria becomes more modern, efficient and attractive.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25507	Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25529	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! On the question of the responsibility of Mr Verkehrsminister to Parliament and to his work as Minister of Transport only as much as to information: The Minister of Transport is not in Parliament today, because he fulfils other state-bearing tasks for the Republic of Austria, but he sits in a football stadium and enjoys himself there. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is more than repugnant as far as his attitude to the Austrian Parliament and its job creation is concerned. This must be rejected by all parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where's the cast farmer? Where's the half SPÖ?]] We all would like to sit in the football stadium today. But the Minister for Transport is blaring Parliament by looking at a football game and leaving us with transport policy in Austria! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is immense!]] [[Further calls to the liberals – BZÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned more often today by the ÖBB-Schlamassel. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a scandal!]] Mr Scheuch, for your memory, because you are relatively forgetful. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't need to remind me of anything at all!]] On the ÖBB-Schlamassel, which this Federal Government is responsible for today, in representation by the State Secretary, for the filleting of the ÖBB in individual companies, on the chaos in the general transport plan, on the chaos in the implementation of major infrastructure projects in the area of rail: I only remember the construction stop of the St. Pölten freight train, where you, ladies and gentlemen, put 152 million € in the gravel or in the sand around St. Pölten. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In the sand of the Caribbean!]] There were deteriorations for the commuters, delays, fewer trains, a thinning of the schedules, an annual price increase and so on. I could continue the list of deteriorations that you have to answer within the framework of this mess! Unfortunately, my speaking time has ended. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Thank God!]] I do not think we have to justify why we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25667	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Railway Act 1957, the Federal Railway Act and the Federal Act establishing a “Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft”, in 1501 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Mr Gabriela Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – It is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspection, including the title and entry into 1502 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1503 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1504 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. [[21:43:42]] 29. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1423 d. B._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Patent Act 1970, the Semiconductor Protection Act and the Trademark Protection Act 1970 (1505 d. B.) 30. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1350 d. B._Other Organiser Agreements on the promotion, provision and use of GALILEO and GPS satellite navigation systems and related applications, along with Annex (1506 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25792	We shall now come to the items 29 and 30 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. The rapporteur did not mention a word. First of all, Mrs Rester-Hinterseer has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25820	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Members of the House! Leave First of all, I should like to talk about the last item on the agenda, the agreement on the promotion, provision and use of Galileo and GPS satellite navigation systems and related applications, and the annex. – This agreement will be approved by the Greens. There has been some uncertainty in the Committee regarding patent law from 1970. This is the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive on the Enforcement of the Rights of Intellectual Property, and we have seen in this context in recent times that implementations or adaptations are taking place. In some cases, we have certain reservations because there are still certain intellectual property rights which are linked to a WTO component, better known as TRIPS. TRIPS has become dubious due to the enormous increases in the treatment of AIDS in the countries of the south due to massive increases in drug consumption. We have therefore also looked very closely at the paragraphs to be amended and have become aware that the text of the directive lacks the protection of confidential information. This seems to have played a role for the legislator at EU level that a rightholder can also be drawn by the accusation of non-compliance by another of the company spying. Patent attorneys consider the non-total adoption of the text of the Directive to be problematic, because the Austrian legislative part must always make a statement with regard to the Directive. But we then looked at this more closely and came to the conclusion that we will give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25856	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25877	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Especially in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, of the innovative companies for which we have already adopted an SME funding law today, and for the economic location of Austria, patent security is essential in the sense of legal certainty, because it is also a guarantee for the local location. Innovation, research and development are the key to the success of tomorrow. Austria is a top location for innovation. Companies already finance more than 40 percent of research expenditure, by 10 percent more than the state. In particular, the proportion of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises with their own research and development activities is relatively high at 59 percent, as measured by the development budget and at the EU average of 44 percent. This makes SMEs a top priority in the implementation of research and development in Europe. As a result of these efforts, Austria's regions have developed a leading position among the high-tech locations in Europe. In 2005, 3 484 inventions were filed with the Austrian Patent Office, 2 495 of which were patents. Thus, the number of technical innovations submitted remained constant at a high level. This is a clear proof of the creativity and research willingness of the Austrian companies. We are on the right path, on an innovative path for Austria as a successful business location.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25911	Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25932	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been carried out: It is about the implementation of an EU directive that serves the enforcement of intellectual property in the field of patent, trademark and model protection. The basis is the TRIPS agreement, which has always been highly criticised, which was also briefly addressed by the first speaker. It is, as has been said, about the enforcement of intellectual property. The fact that this is always a certain problem is particularly evident in the cultural field and less in the area being dealt with here. In the field of patent and model protection, there are certainly forces at work that can enforce their interests. We believe that it is useful to specify the rules that the directive entails. It is primarily a matter of information requirements and a precise regulation of the interlocutory order. This makes sense for us, and we will therefore agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e25962	Mr Wittauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26000	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Farmer's Federal President! Mr Heinzl, dear Toni: We know each other well, but I have to say, It's already crazy if the social democracy of the transport ministers is cheated! I counted: At the moment when you said that before, 36 Members of you were in their place before a vote. Just before a vote! You are throwing away a Minister of Transport and Vice-Cancecian who has state-political and state-political duties, absence, but are not even able to be present in a vote! [[Abg. Reheis: On the football field!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] If I were the President, I would give a call for an order for this inadequacy to the Vice-President, but the whole group over there. [[Congratulations with the liberals – BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Just no excitement! Perhaps Mr Gusenbauer is also at the football match! I don't know! Mr Cap may say where he is! I believe that he is being paid for sitting there and that, if he is against it, he is voting against it! Galileo is a success story for our companies, it is a future-oriented project. I believe that at least we agree on this State-political task that we are voting in common for this project. I think that's a great thing! There's no longer to say about that. I am glad that we agree on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26053	Mr Böhm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26074	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As early as this summer, the region around Berchtesgaden will make a leap into 2010 and premise the premiere of the European satellite navigation system Galileo. The system, which will complement the GPS positioning around the globe and make it even more accurate, will be tested in a 65-square-kilometre area between Jenner, Watzmann, Kneifelspitze and south of the Salzburger Hausberg, Untersberg, operators of the European Space Agency ESA and manufacturers from the navigation area. Only 2010 will be enough satellites in space to start Galileo. To recognize possible errors only at this time would cost millions. The high mountains around Berchtesgaden gave the impact of setting up the project GATE – which stands for Galileo's testing and development environment – here, because the six summits are practically circular around a place and can thus simulate the satellites orbiting around the earth. GATE will be the only test area for GALILEO worldwide. Galileo is based on a constellation of 30 satellites and ground stations that can provide location information for users from different areas. These sectors include transport, social services, justice, customs, construction, emergency and rescue services or the leisure sector. Compared with other European projects such as Airbus or Ariane, Galileo represents a technological breakthrough and a social revolution similar to the development of mobile phones. GALILEO is a great project, but We can probably feel the actual effects in our daily life only after 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26116	I call Mr Prehauser. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26138	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I should like to join the previous speakers from my group and the EIA. We will carry the current novels. However, I cannot agree with Mr Wittauer's comments, who, in my opinion, rightly rejects the indignation expressed by my colleague Heinzl in a way that is really not appropriate. The BZÖ colleague said that Minister Gorbach was not at the stadium, and he spoke of a live recording or any report. I'm allowed to hold on to this. Of course he's at the football game, and that's also significant. On the one hand, he is represented by an expert State Secretary concerning the Railway Act, which he is not interested in. Now it is about research in the future, and this is even less interesting to him, and he has also taken the State Secretary to the stadium! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Gusenbauer is probably also in the stadium!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in this way Parliament and the scientific future of our young people will receive a little appreciation. I don't think you should take that! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where's your boss Gusenbauer?]] If you sit in the glass house, you shouldn't throw stones! You are in the government to write So you don't have the opposition before where she has to be! You've got to sit here, and you've probably forgotten that!
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26192	Mr Pack is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26213	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A short while in the direction of my previous speaker: What's in the paper is supposed to be always true. And today, in the newspaper about today's match, Alfred Gusenbauer is also at the stadium. That must therefore be true! Then you can't pop up! That's how it looks. - Good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Gusenbauer doesn't seem to leave you!]] I would like to speak briefly about patent law and to address my predecessor when I believe that legal certainty is very important not only in the cultural sector, but also for us in the economy when it comes to intellectual property. This is important for the standard and for investment in this area. For young entrepreneurs in particular, it is extremely important that there is a possibility here to protect their intellectual property. In fact, in the final effect, the entire development of the company depends on this, which of course also affects employment. We all know the advertising: It's about the brand and so on. There's actually a lot more behind that, and it's really all about young entrepreneurs. There is little equity, and if, so to speak, intellectual property is lost, sooner or later the whole company will be lost. It is therefore important that we implement this directive and that we continue to accompany developments. Of course, that has to be our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26256	I call Mr Steier.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26277	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe's largest technology project Galileo is the first satellite-based positioning and navigation system specifically for civil purposes. Since satellite navigation systems play an increasingly important role in everyday life, Galileo's potential applications are very wide-ranging. Galileo will allow for the development of a new generation of universal services in areas such as transport, telecommunications, the environment and so on. This global satellite navigation market has been given a significant potential. By 2020, it is said, around 3 billion beneficiaries and revenues worldwide are expected to reach around € 275 billion annually and to create over 150 000 highly qualified jobs alone in Europe. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Galileo as a global system includes international cooperation. This international cooperation is progressing rapidly. There are already agreements with China, Israel, India and other countries, and a large number of other countries are being negotiated. The agreement between the EU and the USA, which we decide today, will ensure the full interoperability and mutual compatibility of Galileo and GPS. The potential will benefit both industrialised and developing countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased to agree to this agreement on the promotion, provision and use of Galileo and GPS satellite navigation systems and thus cooperation between the USA and Europe in the field of a global, civil satellite navigation system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26310	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26332	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This Federal Government has made a great deal of transport investment in recent years. Austria has undoubtedly become more modern, investments in motorways, highways and also in rail infrastructure have been made. I am thinking only of the extension of the S 1 in my district of Bruck to Leitha, but also of the southern railway in the district of Baden. A great deal has also been invested in transport telematics, which undoubtedly entails an increase in road safety. This large-scale project and success project GALILEO is also included in this transport investment. It is not only an important part of European space policy, it is also an important part of a system that continues to contribute much to road safety, because it is a system of location and navigation. I think we should give this success project the approval, because it also means a great opportunity for the domestic economy. In this sense may I request the consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26364	The last speaker is Mr Schweisgut. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26399	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! If you think it's fast, that's right. I will try not to repeat everything that has already been said about GPS and GALILEO. Nevertheless, I would like to mention briefly that we naturally welcome this cooperation. The establishment of a second system makes Europe less dependent on a system, and at the same time there are many joint additions. So we must strive for rapid fulfillment. When you consider how much you could be helped with GPS arrowing in the area of tourism, mountain accidents, mountaineering and so on, you can see how important it is. I welcome the European system, which is already under construction, which has its first test phases in 2006 and will be in operation in 2008. The bilateral agreement with America on joint use in the field of rescue is certainly welcome and therefore also to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26432	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, the draft concerning a federal law which amends the Patent Act, the Semiconductor Protection Act and the Trademark Protection Act, together with the title and receipt in 1423 of the Supplements to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also done unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements on the promotion, provision and use of Galileo and GPS satellite navigation systems and associated applications, together with Annex 1350 of the Supplements, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This too is unanimous and is therefore adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:04:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2006-05-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00150_d7e26498	I am still announcing that at today's meeting there were questions 4290/J to 4297/J. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10.04 a.m. – that is for now. This meeting is closed.
