ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u2	Madam President! This is the very technical implementation of the European Union regulation in Finland. Instead, if you think about the fact that we have had a lot of talk about Posti recently and, of course, mostly about these compensation arrangements for Posti, I would like to point out in this context, when it comes to the movement of parcels across the border, that in recent days citizens have been perplexed by the way in which we in Finland have the letters and also the packages and others will then find them for citizens and how long it will take to deliver the mail. I believe that this is the kind of thing that I would like to see in particular the corresponding minister having to negotiate with the Post, because at the moment this is also a matter of concern to the citizens. Important letters, such as letters relating to public authorities and similar matters, or with different time limits, may disappear or arrive at the point when the person is no longer able to register. For example, letters from the TE administration have been sent to citizens who should contact them by a certain date, and this could cause them to lose benefits. In that sense, I would like to see greater attention paid to this arrival of mail and to the time limits. This is something that is very much addressed to the citizens at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u3	Do they want to make a debut on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u4	Madam President! There has been a debate on employees' salaries and directors' salaries and incentives in the postal sector. It's easy to talk about them, and that's why I'm talking about them. I think it is quite clear that these incentives from senior management have not been right. Of course, it is not the fault of the CEO, who has received what has been agreed for a particular performance, but the fault lies with the Posti Board, which has made far too weak the criteria for these top management fees. The President and CEO of the post office earns such a million dollars a year, over 80,000 euros a month — think of it, 80,000 euros a month. When the Prime Minister earns maybe 15,000 and the President of Sitra, who has been paid a lot, earns maybe 20 thousand, but the CEO of Post makes 80,000 euros a month with these incentives, it makes no sense. [Left: No!] But now that this easy matter has been discussed, I would also like to draw attention to the more difficult issue. What to do with the Post? The situation is very contradictory. If we continue with the current model — not allowing adjustment measures, we will not be prepared to spend more government money on these basic tasks — then we will be at a dead end. Over the years, when the actual number of letters is falling at a sharp pace, on this line, on this route, on this path, on this path, there has been a lot of debate about whether there should be some sort of division between certain tasks, the basic tasks in which taxpayers' money may be spent, and then these other tasks should be carried out in a separate unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u7	Madam President! We're really talking about the Post. This government proposal is related to cross-border parcel delivery services, but the Finns of Peru think it is very important that we have mail running smoothly here in Finland, within our borders, and that people receive letters and magazines sent to them. I'm really sorry the mail's been delayed. The letters go to bills and other important information for people, and delaying the letter can cause great difficulties when it does not go to the mailbox. And this is happening in the provinces as well as in the cities. For example, Espoo sometimes has to wait unduly for that mail to arrive. There is also a lack of postmen. That's the cold truth. There's been a lot of talk here about management fees. I quite agree that it is unreasonable for us to have rewards that touch millions, and then the salaries of those workers who ensure that the citizens receive their letters are being trampled on. This is absolutely incomprehensible, and it is a good thing that it has become public. Every now and then, these things come up, and they are discussed here. But, of course, action is also required to ensure that such abuses do not take place in the future. And let's keep the workers on their side. I am concerned about the Yt wave, which, however, is here in Finland — every day we read that people are at risk. There is a need for jobs, and there is a need for postmen. And the fact that Posti’s job description should not be extended to care for the elderly. Again, we have heard that a mailman would knock on a window and ask if there was a need for milk at home and if everything was all right there. Nurses will continue to do nursing work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u8	Madam President! When we lived in the countryside, we used to have a saying that we lived so remote that the time mark came in the mail. But at that time, it did mean that the next day at least that time mark came through the mail. Today the mail doesn't even come every day. It comes less often — and a little more often how it hurts. This is therefore a very technical matter, as Mr Essayah said earlier, but my colleague, Mr Zyskowicz, raised the question of how Posti has rewarded its highest leadership. In fact, in my opinion, the biggest problem with these rewards has, of course, been their abundance, as Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, but also the fact that the management was rewarded in a situation where the company's problems were not solved. So the management was rewarded, and the company went into worse shape, and the mail was unsuccessful. And at the same time, in fact, there has been talk and reference to cuts in employees' salaries. I also find it worrying that, for example, the tax office no longer uses Posti but distributes its mail via other channels. While Mr Paatero was here in plenary a moment ago, I thought that I would have liked to have heard from him how he was dealing with these fundamental problems of the Post, which Mr Zyskowicz had mentioned earlier, because I personally do not believe in the idea of Prime Minister Antti Rinte that the postmen would look at the windows as they were brought here and ask whether everything is all right. I suppose someone said that it would not take a civilian inquiry by the postmen. So let Post focus on Post's work. Perhaps, if we want to think about what else could be in it, it could, in my opinion, include the distribution of parcels and letters and magazines as a single distribution, for example, once a day. Or, if you want to do that type of work, I myself have not seen it as very natural, either, but, for example, combining food or commercial bag services or this type of distribution service with this could be much more sensible and closer to the post office profession. Personally, I would like Mr Paatero to open up at some point the way in which the Rinte Government is solving the problems of mail delivery, that we in rural areas will receive letters, magazines and other mail even once a week, preferably every week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u9	I hope that the representatives will now stick to the content of the report itself on the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services, and so on. A very wide-ranging postal debate has already taken place in the debate on the referral of this law, and I hope that the focus will now be on this postal law and its content.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u10	Mr President! I'm gonna have to disappoint you a little bit. Although you have asked politely, we must now be able to comment on this, and this is very strongly related to the Post. [Laughter] That said — for example, Mr Heinonen put forward the idea — that other basic services could be provided along with all distributions. Personally, I was thinking that at least the current delivery times might have made that milk sour on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u13	Madam President! I have to thank Mr Meri — well, the package remained together. In other words, I agree with Mr Mere that this is not just Post's business. Our increased online trade means that we have a massive explosion of parcels. And I would hope that, when Mr Paatero deals with these matters, he will also start to discuss with customs how we will first get control of this package traffic, how it will be made smooth through the mail so that those packages will actually find the elderly where the elderly person lives, and will not need to do the four-point drive trip, as Mr Meri described there. However, it is essential that, at least now, according to these reactions, Posti is once again increasing its staff. Every once in a while there are signs and redundancies, which is why people are reacting quickly, as they did a couple of years ago, when they suddenly added more. It would be very important for Posti's organisation, and indeed its leadership, to take account of the fact that the consequences of the decision taken are either pleasing to the public or not, and it has now been years since Posti has been unable to satisfy the opinion of the citizens. Of course, we should not confuse the fact that we have distribution companies whose letters to false addresses are too often blamed on Posti and say that it is Post's fault. There are two different things when there is a massive organization used by distribution companies that can't distribute as efficiently and correctly, with the right addresses as Posti. We are talking about wages here, and certainly at this point we can all see if the wages are at stake if, in a state business, the staff earns fractional amounts and the management peels off the creams, so to speak. But it is also necessary to broaden Mr Heinonen's view and agree that we do have measures that can be helped with the resources of society; it is precisely these measures that support their housing, such as the delivery of food supplies. We might think that there would also be a post office in small neighborhoods if we had enough measures in the post office that we could produce. This service sector could then be kept together in small localities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u14	Let me remind you of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u15	Madam President! This amendment to the Postal Act is very small and specifically concerns cross-border parcel delivery, and I would like to say that this committee's report is unanimous and we agree on that. But this debate has expanded a little. I don't want to take sides. The fees and rewards of the post office management, which have been quite unreasonable — I just want to say that. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u16	Mr President! It is good to continue with what Mrs Torniainen decided. This is indeed a very ambiguous issue, perhaps not the report we are discussing right now, but all of this is indeed a very challenging one. It is quite true that, as this cross-border traffic continues to grow, the volume of consignments of goods is also increasing and, therefore, there is business in it. But when I had the opportunity to visit the new DHL office in Pirkkala myself, I realized that it is also quite effective how it is done today. It is not easy to compete against international players who, globally, are able to send broadcasts from any place in the world. At the same time, of course, the Post should also be able to respond to these citizens' wishes, which have already been addressed. Surely this issue must somehow be dealt with through the universal service obligation, so that the flow of mail becomes more regular. But it is also clear that it is difficult to combine these things. I also understand that it will also be difficult to act if collective agreements are different in the same sector and have a direct impact on how to cope in a competitive situation. In other words, I understand that Posti must make difficult decisions, and it is not easy to solve this equation, neither for the Posti Government nor for the senior management, nor for the political decision-makers. In conclusion, however, I say that if we wait for others to come and look for models that save costs, then management must first set an example. Otherwise, there will be nothing about it. That is what has been completely forgotten in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u17	Mr President! The cost is on the road, but the mail doesn't go the way it used to. It is rather amusing when, some years ago, Posti, then Itella, changed his name back to Post when Itella did not describe this in their field of activity, but it was the postal sector, and now it feels like listening to the debate that it is not the postal sector that best describes them. I am not going to go any further to the position of employees and management fees, although there is much to talk about when the big question is how to deal with Post's universal service obligation in a competitive market. Post is a competitor in markets where others do not have a universal service obligation, and that is in fact a problem. I understand that this change in our Post has also left this Chamber, so the eyes will also turn here on this issue. This is not Post's fault, it is Parliament that regulates these laws. But we're talking about a state-owned company. I hope, however, that in this difficult situation, in which they have to deal with the letters at home rather than compete in the parcel market, the Post will be pushed into the services of the elderly, because that is not where they, the logistics experts, belong, but precisely the trained nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u18	Mr President! This report is to be welcomed. It is important that cross-border packages go according to certain same rules and gallons, and reliability is number one and common across the EU. Mr President! During the debate, Mr Zyskowicz drew attention to the high fees paid by Posti's management and Mr Heinonen drew attention to the fact that some operators have won market shares in the competition from Posti and referred, for example, to the tax authority. On these two points, I would like to make the following point. Firstly, Mr Zyskowicz, it is clear, as you said, that the decisions on these fees have been taken by the Board of Directors of Post, but, Mr President, what made these decisions possible was in 2016 — with the shareholding in the Board of Directors, that is to say your approval — a decision of principle on ownership policy whereby Post was transferred to companies comparable to listed companies in the category of corporate governance. After that, the basic salary alone increased, not to mention bonuses. In other words, the owner, by decision of 2016, had an impact on what The salary of the CEO of the post office is certainly too high for all of us. It was based on the ownership policy policy of the previous government and this transfer of Posti. Mr Heinonen then expressed his concern that: Posti loses profitable parts of its business and then has to bear the unprofitable shares of the universal service obligation: it is true that this system weakens Post's ability to respond to this big change and transformation, but, Mr Heinonen, this is the background to the law that you adopted during the last parliamentary term on the opening up of Post's competition in this particular way, and not for many parts, Mr Heinonen, even made offers because they were unprofitable. Nevertheless, the Post will have to deal with them. These two things should be taken into account, and yes, the situation in which we are now trying to resolve this is not the easiest one, nor is it made easier by some of the decisions that have been taken in the past. But let's look ahead. I believe Mr Paatero will.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u19	There are two further speeches to that effect. We are running out of part-session, and there are other issues that are still on the table. I will take these two speeches and then we will suspend or end this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u20	Mr President! I'm glad this is here. The position of the post office is being re-examined and I agree with the estimates that the operating environment has been in turmoil for years. It is a major change, and the challenges are absolutely huge. It was quite well called for us to think in some way about how in future we will ensure that the citizen gets his own mail properly and that, on the other hand, this issue of the distribution of newspapers is properly organised. All in all, Mr President, I originally asked for this speech because the delegation here so strongly called for Mr Paatero here or wondered that he was not in the Chamber right now. I believe that Mr Paatero will certainly be able to open up more in the future. I, for my part, would like to say that I was very pleased with the Minister's work when this big debate came about that Posti's employees, the staff, had an impossible situation ahead of them: massive cuts in salaries in the name of these employee benefits or exchanges of contracts. I thought it was an unreasonable situation. It was no wonder that there was a great deal of concern there, and yes, my sympathies are definitely on the Post staff side. I think it was a good thing that Mr Paatero intervened then as Minister in this matter. It was the only right way, the only right way to do it in that situation. All in all, Mr President, I believe and trust that Mr Paatero and the government will certainly be able to deal with these issues in a large way and that I believe that there will be a change in ownership policy from this reasonably loose line of last season's coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u21	Madam President! I would like to give you a brief example of this cross-border postal service: When I needed a part of my own car that costs around EUR 2 in the spare part shop in Finland, I thought I would see if there were any in China. China received 100 of them for EUR 2 and I enthusiastically ordered all the other 2 euro packages around 20, and the 40 euro purchases came to my home on different days. If, at the price of the EUR 2 part, you get 100 of them from China and they still carry them with the same money to our own mailbox — then they came in for two or three weeks — then something must be done about this. This cross-border Post is not as good as it is. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-18-ps-53.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
