ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 2/2019 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses. — Mr Koskinen, President of the Committee, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u2	Mr President! The Government's draft amending budget increases the net estimate of actual revenue by around EUR 298 million and increases the budget by around EUR 162 million, i.e. net borrowing by EUR 136 million, and it is a significant achievement, however, when so many projects can be mobilised. The revenue estimate is based on an increase in the estimate of earnings and capital income tax and an increase in value added tax revenue of EUR 398 million, based on more positive developments than anticipated. In addition, the income of the Bank of Finland will be increased in accordance with the decision of the Board of Governors. Then, in other words, the previous estimate of revenue will be reduced by reductions in car tax, government fines and withholding tax on interest income. The biggest increases in appropriations are presented in the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for basic infrastructure management and the development of the fairway network and have indeed been expected. According to the Government Programme, the funding of vocational education and training will be increased by EUR 20 million to recruit teachers and instructors. In addition, an increase of EUR 15 million is proposed in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, among others, for the operating expenses of the Social Security Funds of the Social Insurance Institution. With regard to the smaller additions, the committee calls for a subsidy for the management of the Pamiio sanatorium and welcomes the fact that the maintenance of valuable property and movables can be managed on a foundation-based basis. The committee is particularly pleased that the government has presented such an important draft amending budget quickly. The Committee also draws attention to the fact that increases in funding for transport and vocational training, in particular, have a clear impact on employment and contribute to the 75% employment rate target set by the government. The committee welcomes the government's proposal to allocate significant additional resources both to reducing and developing the transport network's repair debt. The proposed renovation and development projects will run from 2019 to 2024 with a total cost of more than EUR 600 million. An increase of EUR 40 million in the basic infrastructure management allocation will be allocated, inter alia, to the renewal of railway safety equipment, the renovation of railway superstructures and the construction of a raw wood terminal. Their total cost during the construction period is approximately EUR 260 million. These additional investments in basic infrastructure management contribute to curbing the growth of the transport network repair debt, and the Government Programme also assumes that from 2020 onwards, a EUR 300 million annual level increase will be made for basic infrastructure maintenance. This will provide an annual budget of around EUR 1.3 billion from next year and a determined reduction of this long-established correction debt. The Government proposes the launch of five new development projects to improve the business environment, promote exports and improve the smooth running of rail and road transport and road safety. According to a report received by the Committee on Finance, the project planning capacity is good and can therefore be launched quickly. There are three new rail projects, in addition to which two road projects will be launched: the 3 Hämeenkyrö bypass and the 8 Turku-Pori bypass. In addition, the building mandate for the Oulu Maritime Corridor will be increased, and EUR 11 million will be allocated for the long-awaited planning of the Helsinki-Tampere main line. The total cost of these development projects is estimated at EUR 349 million, of which EUR 71 million will be allocated to the current year's budget. In addition to the projects to be launched, the Committee on Finance now considers the record of the Government's proposal on the development of the network to be important. According to them, the preparation of major infrastructure development projects and project companies will continue as outlined in the Government Programme. In addition to this, the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää railway section is expected to be completed at the turn of the year and the project will be launched next year. Preparation of the first 12-year national transport system plan is under way. The Committee stresses the need for careful preparation of the plan, which should examine the current state of the transport system and the operating environment, development needs and cost implications in a broad and close cooperation between the various actors. The Committee considers it important that, alongside the cost-benefit analysis, attention should also be paid to the wider socio-economic impact of the measures. The committee makes two clarifications on these articles, which are more specific in the report. In the administrative field of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Committee considers it justified to increase Kela's operating appropriations to enable it to perform its statutory tasks properly within the prescribed time limits. The Government also proposes an appropriation of EUR 5.5 million for the preparation of the implementation of the increases in small pensions and other benefits. The committee also supports the proposal in this regard and notes that the appropriations proposed for the preparation of implementation are intended to be allocated, inter alia, to the design, implementation and testing of information systems. According to the record of the Government’s proposal, the above increases will enter into force at the beginning of 2020. Overall, following the proposed changes, the budgeted estimates of revenue and appropriations for the current year would be EUR 55739713000, taking into account the actual budget and the first and second amending budget. So quite precisely EUR 10000 per person living in the country passes through the central government budget. The draft decision of the Committee on Finance is that Parliament approves the proposal for the second amending budget for 2019 contained in the Government proposal HE 5/2019 vp, subject to the above changes, and that Parliament rejects amending budget initiatives 1 to 9 and that Parliament decides that the second amending budget for 2019 will apply from 8 July 2019. There are two objections to the report, from the representatives of the Finns Party and the National Coalition Party, and they will be able to explain them in more detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u5	Looks like we're gonna need to have a little debatation on this one. Let us start the debate briefly and then the ministers will be able to respond. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u6	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee has just presented, we have a very balanced and good supplementary budget proposal. It stresses that the government has started to work immediately, to make decisions to improve the competitiveness of business, to improve the position of lower-income pensioners and to improve the resources for vocational training, i.e. an excellent start. I said here in the referral debate that the sleeves have been wrapped up, and I repeat that we did not wait until the autumn, that as far as we are concerned, we immediately took action and a balanced package was put in place. These transport infrastructure projects are very important. They create the conditions for the development of the economy throughout the country, long-term projects, and now this government is not just talking, it is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u10	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, a good report contains two objections. Let's be brief. We would add millions to the pipeline projects, which in turn we would cut back on inefficient development aid. We would use these millions to remove bottlenecks in transport and to promote transport projects that are essential to the economy. We also note that a government should have its own employment programme if a tripartite failure occurs. Then the government should also have its own programme for stability and growth if a longer period of low economic growth emerges in the global economy. This programme should include measures to increase price competitiveness and productivity rapidly. Finally, I would like to point out that the government's projects to promote biogas plants may involve major state aid problems, so they should be promoted right at the beginning of the government's term in order to get these projects, which are very important for rural areas, through the Government's term of office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u11	Madam President! When listening to Central Beachkangas, there was almost a feeling that he denied three times even knowing the Prime Minister of the previous government, Juha Sipilä of the city centre. But you have to thank me when it's time to thank you. I would like to thank Minister Marin for the many good transport projects that are being put forward here. The main course and many others are moving forward now. But then this centenary, which seems to be turning into a midsummer 10. In the Committee on Finance, the experts are, Minister of Finance Rinne, if you will listen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u12	Mr President! In the opinion of the Committee on Finance, we were all very pleased that the government has given such an important amending budget at a truly brisk pace. The first amending budget of the new government makes real investments in the future. It invests in transport projects, including a large number of transport infrastructure projects. In particular, it includes future-looking projects, such as railway projects, to mention the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main line, which is a major national project and will hit the heart of the economy here. In addition, the government also invests in vocational education and training so that we can have new talent, which is also needed by the business community. Both future investments I have mentioned will improve employment. In addition, the additions to Kela improve the livelihood of the lowest-income earners. The reform of pensioners requires money for implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u13	Madam President! Mr Rantakangas mentioned that the sleeves were wrapped quickly — this time so fast that the workers fell off. The speed is good, but I should give you a little time to process. This draft amending budget was submitted during the Midsummer, and this has also been dealt with at this occasion and meeting, and has not been able to take sufficient care of it. Thank you for these money for the fairway projects, which are particularly stimulating planning. We are now waiting for that implementation schedule. In particular, I am concerned about Espoo's urban track and its planning. Since the design is almost complete, it could have been started right now, but this did not happen. Thanks for the extra money from Kela. A report from the Kela delegation showed that 4 million calls had been made to Kela,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u14	Madam President! We are already in the position, Prime Minister Rinne, that the smooth electoral promises you have made are even endangering the Finnish earnings-related pension system. It is not enough that the centenary of May is dwindling to midsummer 10 — or whether it will soon be the August euro — because we do not know at the moment in Parliament or in the Committee on Finance what kind of model you intend to implement that promise when the principal mathematician of Kela has stated that the calculations are not true. In addition to this, you in the Government Programme intend to set up a working group to plan whether, within the earnings-related pension scheme, pensions for people who receive less than 1,400 could be increased. In practice, this means cutting the pensions of hard-working nurses and engineers so that you can fulfill that election promise and raise the minimum pensions. We are concerned about small pensions and the livelihoods of pensioners, but I also worry about how the Finnish earnings-related pension system will turn out. I'm really worried. I hope you will answer how you intend to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u15	Mr President! This is truly amazing, though, that the coalition still seems to be so angry that the government now wants to improve the livelihood of small pensioners who receive a small pension from the cuts in your government. I am pleased, President-in-Office, that this government has registered the fact that the first step is now being taken, 50 for the low-income ones, and that the next steps will be clarified. But what does the coalition do? This position of your Assembly on this amending budget today is that you are opposed to the Kela allocation, which is preparing to increase these pensions. Not so small a thing that the Coalition Party cannot resist in order to prevent increases in pensions for pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u19	Madam President! As regards, first of all, the additional allowance for Kela, at the same time as the general government has in practice had to make significant savings in administrative costs under the direction of the VM, Kela has practically been spared these. The fact that Kela is now required to be efficient and to increase productivity and not to give additional funds to each of the peaks is a perfectly reasonable position. As far as this May Day sitting is concerned, well, first of all, you can ask yes — I will not answer it now — whether it is appropriate to spend 180 million on pensioners or whether it would be more appropriate to use it, for example, to prevent the exclusion of young people, to protect children and so on. That's a good question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u24	Mr President! Now Mr Heinonen referred to the expert consulted in committee, and then the other members of the Assembly have referred to the press. At least this was not stated in the committee that this EUR 50 increase could not be achieved, but that the question was that if we were to implement it in the easiest way, we would increase the guarantee pension and national pension to those currently receiving it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u26	Mr President! We will now come to what kind of information the Parliament receives. Vaprika is told of hundreds, the government program of fifty, the chief mathematician states that a few tens. We may be giving money to reform the pension system without knowing what it is like. We'll make a decision with a bag on our head. We questioned in committee that we would like to know what kind of system Kela is given the money, whether it is a reasonable, appropriate model, especially when the main mathematician has warned the public that the money is not enough. Could you, Prime Minister, now tell us what the model is when we are dealing with the amending budget? And I hope you answer. Are you going to find out what is in the government programme that would destroy the earnings-related pension system, cut money from hard-working nurses and teachers? SAK has knocked it out, STT has knocked it out, Akava has knocked it out, EK has knocked it out. Surely the Finns will knock out the fact that you are wrecking the earnings-related pension system. I hope you will answer:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u27	Mr President! In my opinion, this criticism of small pension withdrawals is now premature. I think it would be worth waiting in peace for the preparation that is now being made, and then we will see the technical solution with which it will be implemented. I am sure there will be criticisms from the opposition, but now it is worth waiting for this preparation, because it is a good idea to try to support the smallest pensioners and to raise the smallest pensions. [Heckling] Mr President! Since the centre is the whole of Finland's party, we are very pleased that now there are these bus projects in different parts of Finland and there are these increases in basic bus maintenance appropriations and the development of the bus network. But when you look at the map of Finland, it is clear that there are many regions with very great needs, and there are no projects at this stage. Of course we are waiting, and certainly the government is aware that, then, when drawing up the actual budget, these provinces and projects must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u28	Mr President! The salmon of the centre said here that the centre is the whole Finnish party, but if you look at the protest of the Finns of Peru, we have brought up a lot of road projects. If we want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited and we want to meet the needs of employment and employers, people need to get around, and we should have made more investments here. I spoke at yesterday's sitting, for example, about the Hanko- Hyvinkää-Mäntsälä road. It's completely blocked. There hasn't been any money put in there for years. There is one example: freight transport, passenger transport. There will be planning money for railway projects, but for example, it is really blocked between Tampere and Helsinki, and I would advise you to sit on the train and get to know each other from time to time. This would have been an act of employment. You're missing those jobs. This is one of those things that responds to the problem of encounters. You are not necessarily the whole Party of Finland, even though you now want to advertise in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u30	Mr President! It is clear that, even after this additional budget, there will be roads that need to be refurbished. There are some sections of the track that need to be improved. With this additional budget, we will not be able to eliminate all these problems, and we will be delighted if you bring up these projects. The Minister of Transport will probably listen to them and try to improve them in the future. Mr Heinonen expressed his thanks to the previous government and, of course, it is the case that the explanations, the plans made by the previous government with regard to these sections of the railway line, can now be put into effect. Now we can get on with them, we can get on with them. So this long curve continues here, thanks to the previous government. What is good about this is that we are not focusing here on symbolic projects that may have big headlines, but we are taking very carefully selected small measures that will have a great deal of impact, for example, for our export industry. That's what I'd like to ask you now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u31	I would ask the representatives to stick to this timetable. It's really slipping in here right now. One minute is the answer. — Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u32	Mr President! I understand that the opposition must and must make the criticisms, the alternatives, but there should be some consistency. The first additional budget of the government supported by the representative Leena Meri did not contain a euro for any transport project — no transport project — and there was not a euro for this 25-way, this Hanko- Hyvinkää-Mäntsälä road. Of course, this criticism pales in comparison with the inconsistency of what the coalition is doing here. The previous group leader Jokinen — the authoritative previous group leader — said here that there is too much money here for rail projects and too little for road projects. And what is being said here in the protest of the Coalition Party? More money for rail projects — that this is not enough. There should be some kind of consistency. As far as these pensions are concerned, Mr President: Mr Sarkomaa said that you are concerned about pensioners. Well, you have given your evidence in it: you cut more than 300 euros a year from the beneficiaries of national pensions, the lowest incomes, during the last term of government,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u34	Madam President! Mr Lindtman referred to my speech here earlier. In that speech, I raised the imbalance in transport funding, [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u35	Mr President! Finland must reduce the amount of driving, otherwise the climate targets to which the Coalition Party has also committed itself during the previous period will not be achieved. That is why we are now investing in the railways so that more people can walk the tracks. Cars are still available in the outermost region, nothing is happening to them, but we now offer more options for more Finns to move more sustainably, so that we can stop climate change and shoulder the responsibility that the Coalition Party was committed to in the previous period. And then, when you look at the whole state finances, there's still money going to you. We were informed in the committee that this summer the Fairway Agency has given 12 million of its money to the Ely Centres for the repair of roads — such an example. We will continue to take care of you, but at the same time we are doing a major structural change in order to put an end to climate change. Now I'm going to ask the assembly: Do you want to continue to be involved in halting climate change? Are you in on those last season's commitments or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u36	Mr President! Of course we're committed to them. This is a completely different issue. Maybe it's over. However, I would like to ask about the long-term planning and preparation of this project company model, which was promoted by the previous government, and, in fact, in the case of the Finnish track, for example, the cities along the Finnish railway line have already committed themselves in practice to capitalising these companies in their councils. The only thing missing is a decision to make progress. You said earlier, Minister of Transport Marin, here that you still want to prepare. What is still to be prepared for these projects which are not yet implemented? So this is just a question of starting planning work on the Finnish track, not putting a crash on the ground, as could already be done on the Espoo urban track. What is still to be prepared for the start of preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u37	I will give two more speeches and then the ministers answers, and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u38	Madam President! The coalition has really been illogical here. The previous group president is always asking for more money for you instead of the tracks, and at the same time the current group president has been calling for more money for the tracks here in his speeches, and then the proposals are calling for more on the tracks and at the same time for more on the roads. But in some things, at least the convention is logical. During the last period, the Coalition Party cut national pensions by both index freezes and level cuts, and now logically continues to oppose the improvement of the status of national pensioners. [Right : No place to hold! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u40	Madam President! After all, there is a lack of credibility in politics when it comes to monitoring this activity. Was it a coalition that promised — in 2007 — a raise of EUR 500 for nurses?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u45	Reply, Prime Minister Rinne, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u46	Mr President! First of all, Mr Juvonen on the matter of pensioners. Mr Juvonen, I would now like to answer a few words about your recent question: This government will return to a lower level of ownership, which the previous government raised. So now it will be easier for pensioners. The index increases will also be completed in full, and the first section of the Pensioners' 100 will be completed at the beginning of 2020 in any case, i.e. the first section of this 100 will be completed at the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u53	I give a one-minute response to Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u54	Mr President! As has been said, the Government Programme has decided to increase the number of small pensions, and preparations are already under way. The timetable for implementing this reform is very tight. Preparations for its implementation have already started this year, which is why the euro has now been earmarked for this. We want this reform to come into force from the beginning of 2020. You are all well aware that all reforms cost money, and here, too, this timetable, which is tense, I admit, poses its own challenges. In my opinion, the government has made a very important choice of values here. We want to make this preparations carefully so that these smallest pensions can be raised right from the beginning of 2020, and that is why we are investing money in this preparation. At the beginning of next year, this guarantee pension will be increased by EUR 50. For the rest, this preparation is still under way and is being clarified, and that is why we will come back to the details later, but I believe that sooner rather than later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u56	Mr President! Here the Prime Minister has already responded to this employment situation, that is to say employment is being monitored all the time, and of course the government will take action in the event that we see that we are not on the path of growth that our programme requires. But then Mr Vähämäki asked about exceptional recessions. We have an exceptional recession buffer in the programme, which, in exceptional circumstances, will be introduced by the decision of the ministerial working group on economic policy after the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Finland, has given its opinion. It is not a cyclical buffer, but a consequence of an exceptional recession from outside. Mr Adlercreutz then asked about the energy tax reform. Energy tax reform is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance, it is being carried out as a whole and will return to it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u57	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen said that the timetable for the amending budget for both the Government and Parliament has been very rapid. That's absolutely true. We have made decisions quickly and here we are already talking before the parliamentary summer break. Then Mr Laukkanen as well as Mr Laukkanen Multala asked about this urban track in Espoo and the project companies on the other hand. As I have said before in this Chamber, this urban railway issue in Espoo is being examined as part of a project company headed west, which means that this preparation is under way. And with regard to whether it is possible for the project companies to mobilise immediately, what further studies are needed, I can say that I am now very familiar with this matter, that there is still something to be clarified here. These project companies must be viable, they must be able to carry these projects forward in time, both in terms of planning and implementation, and there is still something to be clarified here. I would like to go through this thoroughly before any project companies are actually set up. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u58	Mr President! Mrs Rinne, our Prime Minister, of course you are responsible here for your own speeches, and in that regard, I think it is quite unreasonable to delegate responsibility, for example, to the Minister for Pensions or to the social partners. Before the elections, you promised low-income pensioners an increase of 100, and now it seems to have halved to 50, and it is becoming very unclear whether this is going to happen. In addition, Parliament has the right to know what kind of model Kela has been ordered to prepare if the Parliament is required to significantly increase its administrative funding. That's what it's like. Kela has been assigned to prepare for what is this money needed for the development of the pension system? I would like to see a clear response in this Chamber to the model of promoting the position of low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u59	Madam President! After the election, promises of expenditure are often made available, as has been the case with this story of the Pensioners' May Day Hundred. However, the truth is that during the elections the hundred more were on the coffee table of the Socialist electoral booths, but now it is turning into a handful of coins. Why it is changing, however, is due to the fact that social benefits are generally also excluded first. For example, if you have become a housing allowance or other social benefit, in a way it will be gone from there if you do not make any specific legislation or legislation to keep the money on top of these. In reality, purchasing power has weakened from a very large number of Finns, especially pensioners, because over the years the price of food is rising, the price of living is rising, the fuel tax is rising, and it is also remembered that the biggest problem in pensioners' misery is the introduction of a folded index during Lipponen's government,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u60	Mr President! Firstly, I would say that it is a good start for this government to start with a proper amending budget, particularly with regard to this transport sector. As we all know, we have projects all over Finland worth billions and billions of euros, and now this amending budget is beginning to dismantle this sum. So it's a very, very good thing. As for whether there are too many rail projects, we know that we have a particularly large number of both rail and road projects and that rail projects are never very small projects of a few million euros, but they are absolutely essential not only for the transport of passengers but also for the transport of goods and raw materials. But then I would like to say about this little confrontation that I do not think it makes sense to have a confrontation between rail and road projects — it makes no sense, both have needs — and in the same way, with regard to this issue of small pensions, I do think that it is not smart that we here are putting families with children and small pensioners against each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u61	Mr President! I would like to ask a few questions about whether a new policy area in the field of immigration policy is emerging, namely, such as re-integration. This term was reflected in the EU programme discussed yesterday, in which the Rinte government really wants to invest in this type of reintegration. I think that is a rather difficult term to understand, because Finland is already investing taxpayers' money for those who are illegally resident here and once those who are illegally resident have been returned to their country of origin, then they want to invest more in them there in Iraq. Reintegration, what does that mean? You have to integrate somewhere you've lived your whole life. I don't see the point. However, a new official will now be established in this section 26. A new Finnish official will therefore be sent to Iraq to act as a return expert, and I understand that his duties include, among other things, assisting employment. It is inconceivable that a Finnish official should be sent to Iraq to act as an Iraqi labour official, to provide assistance there. I'd like to ask the Minister of the
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u62	Minister Ohio, reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u63	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Tavio, for the question. The idea that at the end of Iraq a new embassy would have such a staff member dealing with these issues of return is linked to Finland's European commitment to return policy as part of asylum policy. We can make these processes work, all of them. I have previously stressed here that the asylum process must, as a matter of principle, already work so well that there is enough information available to each applicant, there is enough assistance and the necessary length of time when this information is also being brought to the table. Apart from the fact that the asylum process is being put in place — the government programme in many places points to the realisation of human rights and fundamental rights — this appropriation is intended specifically to: The negotiations will then take place at the end of Iraq as to how we will be better able to carry out the returns in the future. So at the moment there are countries that have agreements with Iraq and countries that do not. That agreement in itself does not necessarily mean that returns are very successful, that is, there are huge variations between Member States as well, and of course there are also international discussions with other Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u65	Madam Speaker! There has been a lot of discussion about pensions here, and I do believe that there is agreement in the Chamber that we do want to raise the smallest pensions. And just as the Prime Minister said, there are two things to be said: guarantee pension is one thing, and then occupational pensions and national pensions are their own business. Representative Salmon talked about technical solutions — we are looking forward to what that technical solution means. I mean, it's about funding. As we all know, money doesn't come out of the wall. It has to be taken from somewhere. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what is your assessment, is this going to lead to an increase in occupational pension contributions, or will it lead to a delay in the retirement age to finance this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u66	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Östman, for the question. This was an important question, and this now clarifies this whole thing. The government has earmarked EUR 183 million for this increase in the level of small pensions in the first tranche — in the first tranche of the total EUR 183 million. It's supposed to happen. One technical option is to implement it in such a way that the protection component of the national pension is increased by EUR x-10 in order to achieve this increase, i.e. the protection component of the national pension. It does not interfere at all with the pension system, nor with the earnings-related pension system at all, but it will lead to a rise in the level of the smallest earnings-related pensions through the increase in the protection component of this national pension. [Department : €50! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u68	Mr President! Reasonable doubts have been raised as to whether this EUR 180 million will suffice even to the 50s or to the mid-summer. The Prime Minister said before that one way or another is enough. I think it's a representative. The salmon made a good speech earlier when he said that these matters should be thoroughly prepared and made reasonable progress with this issue of pensions. It is extraordinary that, even at this stage, EUR 5.5 million should be earmarked for the construction and testing of information systems in relation to the increase in pensions, when it is not yet known whether something is done in one way or in another or in a deliberate way, so that it is sustainable and fair to other pensioners. That is why the initiative of the Convention assumes that, given that there are also urgent projects, they should be invested primarily in the additional budget. That is why, in the joint initiative, we assume that the crash is now taking place on the Espoo urban track, and that is our common line. It's the most urgent project in the infrastructure. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance here. From Lintilä, perhaps even more important for a long time: where is the money for vocational training teachers in framework 2023,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u69	Mr Koskinen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u70	Mr President! There is a constant misunderstanding here. This 5.5 million has already been earmarked for the Social Insurance Institution to cover all the reforms included in the Government Programme for the implementation of Kela. It's a transfer allowance, available for three years. No one has put forward, as Mr Mykkänen claimed, that this 5.5 million would now be spent solely on this 50-year technical implementation model. Takes care in the Ministry to prepare the presentations, and the Social Insurance Institution must implement the organisation. It is a good thing that it is already known there that there will be additional tasks for it, but they will not go from there hypothetically to build a model of their own, for which Mr Sarkomaa has called for proposals. After all, it belongs to the Government and the Ministry, which prepares and compares different options, and then the Government brings the proposal, and then Kela prepares for the implementation of the model, as well as these half a dozen other Kela income benefits that will have to be implemented during this Government Programme period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u72	Madam President! I am at least left with no doubt as to whether the Coalition Party is in favour of improving the position of low-income pensioners. Much is discussed about this adequacy of money, good thing, but Finnish pensioners have the right to know whether the Coalition Party is in favour of improving their position. [of the Joint Parliamentary Committee: Of course it's worth it!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u73	Mr President! The Finns of Peru are also very concerned about the livelihoods of low income pensioners, and we are pleased that the government, at least according to its promises, intends to raise the smallest pensions. Unfortunately, however, this draft amending budget has not yet taken a position on the increase in pensions, at least at this stage, but only on this development of information systems. Hopefully, at the latest, when the actual budget for next year comes to Parliament in the autumn, there will already be a clear budget for this pension increase. The Prime Minister said above that the amount required for this partial increase of 50 would be EUR 183 million. By comparison, for example, at least EUR 150 million has been spent on preparing social and health care reform for many years, but there is still no prospect of completion. Yes, we Finns believe that these funds for the preparation of the reform should also be spent very carefully and then spent on more necessary targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u74	Madam President! The first thing I have to say is that I am very surprised at all at the way in which we are talking about raising the smallest pensions here in general. In this debate, it has already been said on many occasions, not only by the chairman of the Committee on Finance but also by others, that this kind of intimidation that this increase in the minimum pensions is now going to ruin our current pension system is not true. Both Mr Heinonen and Mr Sarkomaa attended the meeting themselves a few days ago,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u79	Mr President! It seems that the demars do not really want to talk about these pension promises, but we want to talk about precisely what you, Prime Minister Rinne, have promised. You promised everyone with a pension of less than EUR 1,400 100 in a clean hand. Then it was halved, the rest was pushed over by others, and now it seems that half will be halved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u80	Mr President! I read in one of the papers that the coalition is moving back to the right, the political right,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u84	If we don't keep to these time limits, we're gonna start putting on the microphone from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u85	Madam President! Very interesting to listen to, the debate has even become lively. However, I could say that first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for all the road projects, and I would like to thank the government for ‘seeking’ for the pensioners, according to Mr Gustafsson, ‘seeking to get relief’. Now I wonder when we are talking about the Mayan and the assembly having become fine lightenings of this Mayan, only the ‘Ricsaropo’ has yet to live — that if we really want to make it happen in this Chamber, then we will have some money. Here's the way to find it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u87	Ärade talman, Madam President! The urban railway in Espoo has been mentioned in this number of opposition speeches, and I too consider the project important, but I would remind you that we are now dealing with the amending budget. This is where many road, bus and rail projects are waiting for money, but this government will be able to give them budgetary resources at a later stage. Representative Laukkanen considered the government’s momentum too hard and suspected that the workers would not be able to keep up. Well, for this reason, for example, almost 10 million have now been presented to Kela for the processing of income support applications and for the recruitment of annual leave placements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u88	Madam President! As a central Member of Parliament, I am very pleased that this long-standing policy of the centre is being implemented that small pensioners, those who really have that small pension, will now continue to receive more of that pension. The guarantee pension was increased by less than fifty during the Sipilä Board of Directors — an excellent opening — and now more is coming. I can't understand it if someone sees some boogeyman on this one. The most important thing is that there will be more money for small pensioners. For the most part, it is a hand-held money, let us rejoice in it. Another thing, railway investments: Take a look at the reports from the Natural Resources Centre, Luke, on how much value each hit from the forest brings to the Finnish economy. Almost EUR 120 per mot will add value to the national economy by thinning and renovating forests. And when they come to the Finnish economy as an addition, it reduces the burden on roads, which is good for road transport, for road sustainability. It's worth seeing things over and over.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u89	Mr President! The Prime Minister referred here to the reform of family leave and to the fact that, when it was implemented in due course, it would also improve women's pensions, pensions accumulated during their working lives. For this to happen, family leave reform must improve the position of women in working life. I ask, Prime Minister, how will the reform of family leave planned by the government improve the position of women in working life? I don't see such elements in it. Secondly, it also lacks the flexibility and flexibility that families sorely need in everyday life. The Coalition Party wants to carry out a family leave reform. The Coalition Party is ready to invest in families. Family leave must be reformed as a whole, with greater flexibility in family life and a real improvement in the position of women in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u90	I will give two more debatable speeches and then the answers of the ministers, and let us see if we can go on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u91	Madam President! Thank you to the government for a good amending budget and to the Committee on Finance for a good report. Here we have had a lot of discussion about these fairway projects, and it is a great thing that this additional budget is going to take the projects which have been waiting for a long time and which are well designed. These are bottlenecks in many provinces, as in Pirkanmaa, Third Street has been blocked to promote other projects. Of course there's a nine-way cure and more. It is an excellent thing that we get 11 million to design track three on the main track. But, good hall, it will take two plus two years before this project is so complete that the crash will go to the ground. I hope that perhaps even the new representatives in this Chamber will accept the funding and how to move it forward. So it takes its time. Another point, this 20 million in vocational training: it is an excellent thing for us to have directors in this particular training.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u92	Madam President! It is, above all, a question of whether the public can trust the government, whether the Prime Minister's promise can be trusted. And this 180 million, which has now been allocated to this pension promise, will not be enough. Nor do we know what kind of model Kela is preparing, and we do not know how the rest of the EUR 100 will be financed. It is a matter of trust that you have promised this. It was an important part of your election campaign, and then it is a question of whether the government can be trusted. But as far as the sustainability of the welfare society is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u95	Mr President! The pensioners are very disappointed because something else was promised on the electoral courts. I hope the government will:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u98	At the end of the debate, Mr Koskinen, Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u99	Mr President! The debate has been lively, but it may have forgotten that the Committee on Budgets itself was unanimous on those large figures, i.e. was considered to be of the right order of magnitude and is investing in important issues that promote employment. Perhaps a little strange is now the line taken by the Assembly that only specific employment measures in the main category of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy are accepted as employment measures. In the past, it has been widely accepted that investments, especially such investments that benefit economic growth, are targeted at employment. And that is precisely what is being done, in accordance with traditional economics, to invest in society's resources for investments that contribute to employment and economic growth in the very long term. And that basic thing must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u101	Then the Ministers will respond. Prime Minister Rinne, do you have two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u102	Mr President! I would now like to say to you, Mr Niikko, that this net increase of 100 euros for small pensions is coming in several instalments, over several years and in the light of the balance of public finances. All these things are included in this promise which I have made and which this government is now taking forward over a number of years,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u114	Minister of Finance Lintilä, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u115	Madam Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for its rapid and high-quality work, as the Committee on Budgets has always traditionally done. Thank you to the Committee on Finance for that. Then to Mr Mykkänen, where is the money for vocational education and training in 2023: Of course, the fall spending limits will go through the money for the whole season in a normal way. Obviously you referred to one-off money, and the Minister for Finance has asked the Ministry for its own proposals by 23 August. But the starting point is that there must have been 235 million for the Ministry of Education class, which can be used for five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u118	All right, for now, we've had our debut. Let's go to the list of speakers. We can have the debate later on this day, while the sitting is still in two parts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u119	Mr President! This draft amending budget, which has been tabled in a timely manner, is a good proposal, and I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for its prompt handling of this matter. This amending budget supports in many ways the objectives of the Government Programme, firstly to promote and improve employment and also to solve bottlenecks in transport and to invest in vocational training. These are very important and important issues. I would like to say a few words about these transport projects. In fact, I think that when we know that there are so many big and smaller projects, the government must move from the outset to dismantle this sum. We also know that it is precisely here, last week, that a 12-year transport system plan was set up, which is extremely important. In my opinion, it will be here in Parliament after the government's deliberations and parliamentary work in the form of a report in about a year's time. It's important. We will then see a good picture of what will be done in the coming years and not just in this parliamentary term. Indeed, dismantling this sum is an important issue. I personally believe that the emphasis on rail transport on this point does have its basis. Firstly, as far as passenger transport is concerned, we all know that we all have a political willingness to increase the number of passenger traffic in rail transport, we have serious bottlenecks and we also have our stations, the yards are in pretty bad shape and they require work. And, of course, investment in rail transport is absolutely essential for the transport of raw materials in the freight sector. There's a lot of targets out there. I myself think that here I want to highlight in particular the Iisalmi-Ylivieska electrification and this triangular line. That has been the goal for a long time, and now it is moving forward. As an Eastern Finn, I also believe that the conditions which can contribute to the development of the Kotka-Hamina port are important, and here I am referring to the rail link Kouvola-Kotka-Hamina. We need to look far enough to understand what kind of networks and nodes we have overall. I think, of course, that it is also a success that: Joensuu railway yard is involved in these railway yard projects at this point. More generally, I would like to say that in this country we have dozens of station areas, railway yards that need repair, and they are inevitably quite expensive repairs. One of the plugs here has been that we have had land ownership conditions in these yard areas, in the station areas in a rather unstable and not in any kind of investment-enhancing condition. We have also had three owners: some owned by VR, some owned by the Finnish Transport Agency and some owned by the Senate. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we decided to focus these state ownership on the same point, i.e. we have this Senate Asema-regions Oy, which also aims to be a developer partner for cities in the development of the station regions. This is very important. I also think it is important for the amending budget to have a record of these large projects and billions of investments, both in the west, in the east and in the north. I believe that there is a expectation here in Parliament that the government will be able to adopt guidelines quite soon in the autumn. Then I would like to say something that is rather sensitive. I think there's been some mention of the main track here, too. I understand the significance of Helsinki—Hämeenlinna—Tampere—Säinäjoki—Oulu railway section, but you may imagine that I, as an Eastern Finn, have a little mouth-to-mouth talk about the main track, because for me and many other representatives there in Eastern Finland there is a Karelian track, and when I look at representative Eestilä, the main track is Savo's track, or for representative Kanerva it is a track from Helsinki to Turku. I understand this for historical reasons, but this term “main course ” does not apply to constitutions. In time, the first track was built in Hämeenlinna, Helsinki, and I guess that's where it is. And at the end of the day, I think it is very important that this amending budget includes and amends this funding for social welfare reform: 211 million, the name of a new item. It will enable us to take forward this social reform now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u120	Madam President! The Rinne government has found in the fog a large jar of jam, which is enough for everyone, a non-existent jar of jam that has already been opened in government negotiations, so that all those who are now in government could be given attractive but vile promises for the future of our country. Of course, when you look back on the incredibles of the government program, that's all you'd expect. Finland’s best and economic realism is far from this. In order to open up the non-existence of a can of jam, you might want to look back a little bit on the past. In 18 years, an increase in tax revenues of just over 3% was budgeted with an amending budget, i.e. at a time when the economy was developing in a truly positive way. However, budgeted tax revenues were not achieved in the end, and in the government accounts for 18 years the increase in tax revenues was less than 3 per cent. Well, this year's budget was clearly charged with higher expectations than last year and a tax revenue increase of up to 3.7%. However, economic growth started to slow down at the end of the year, and in December, according to the Ministry of Finance’s macroeconomic forecast, economic growth was falling below previous estimates. Well, the Sipilä Government reacted to this and corrected the tax revenue estimate downwards in the amending budget 2019. It was economic realism, thank you for that. It's a wise thing to do. Now, after its first amending budget, all the forecasting institutions have reported that economic growth is slowing down clearly faster than expected — that is, everything. Madam President! We should now all realise that growth is falling apart. We know that tax revenue growth cannot accelerate as economic growth slows down. The employment rate is often referred to. The employment rate cannot be reduced on the basis of continuous improvement; the employment rate will improve on its own as the number of working-age people falls. It's not the employment rate that pays those taxes, it's the employed. Well, the government proposes, regardless of the many economic solutions, that earnings and capital tax revenue would increase by 6.5% with this amending budget compared to the 18 annual accounts, i.e. compared to the time when we were doing well. The economy was on the accelerator lane. Let's promise more jam, so let's promise more jam that doesn't exist and doesn't come. This is not economic realism. So it seems to me that the great Rinte government, with its large aid forces, has taken away and the officials have squealed. Madam President! The government is desperately trying to create the impression that the economy is under control, by injecting additional revenue into the amending budget in a situation where its implementation is more than uncertain. This non-existent jam will then be used to fund the good, so that the government partners and the voters are satisfied, and of course we will try to slow down the weakening support, that is clear. Prime Minister Rinne went to gamble with his government program, and it's gonna blow in the face before the government can do anything. Perhaps the Prime Minister has bought time by promising everyone jam in the hope that this would be a good thing, however, that during the government’s honeymoons, studies and planning, our country’s economy would rise, as it still did until last summer. I can tell Prime Minister Rinne the unfortunate truth: it will not rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u123	Mr President! The representative of the Greens, Suomela, seemed to suggest earlier that only in rural areas should be allowed to drive in the future. It sounds bad that the city-greens really aim to limit the access of active Finns in urban and spending limits areas to their car jobs, shops, families with children to hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u128	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The Group of the Committee on Finance has objected to this first amending budget of the Rinte government. We note that the economic outlook has actually deteriorated from the moment the government negotiations took place. The Ministry of Finance already revised its summer forecast of growth figures downwards, and this makes it difficult to achieve both the employment objective of the Rinte government and the objective of the balance of public finances. We are very concerned at the meeting that the necessary employment measures were not introduced in this amending budget, although Mr Rinne promised them a moment earlier. According to the Government Programme on the slope, the government is aiming for a budgetary balance in 2023, but the Ministry of Finance’s estimate of the projected government deficit in 23 has now grown to 1.9 billion from the EUR 1.6 billion in spring, which is the wrong direction. In spite of the upward trend, the government continues to be in debt, and this amending budget estimates the net borrowing of the State at around 1.7 billion this year. In this amending budget, many transport projects will receive praise from the assembly. The transport projects proposed in the draft amending budget are justified and supported. Together, well-prepared projects are now being taken forward, and these projects will improve the functioning, safety and environmental friendliness of the transport network. The main weakness in the transport package is to forget the promotion of cities and high-speed rail connections. The current Helsinki—Riihimäki—Hämenlinna—Tampere main line developmentplanningJokelanjaTampereis presented11million,thanks,but the design money does not concern,for example, the improvement of the flight path In its programme, the Government has also proposed to sell 3 billion state assets and to use the proceeds for future investments. However, there is only one railway project that can accommodate more than one hundred investments. In the opinion of the Assembly, the government should re-evaluate the investment targets, and we believe that the legitimate target would be the capitalisation of high-speed interurban rail links, project companies and universities. In addition, the Coalition Party proposes an appropriation of EUR 6.5 million in its own proposals, the amending budget initiative, for the start of the Espoo urban track. That would be one part of these high-speed rail links. We also see that the development of the main railway line is central to the development and growth of Finland as a whole – the railway section is the largest in Finland. In the future, the development of the main railway line will enable rapid train connections between the two major cities of Helsinki and Tampere, but also between the cities, Riihimäki and Hämeenlinna, to the capital region. In the field of vocational education and training, we welcome the increase in funding for vocational education and training by 20 million. The increase is aimed at the providers of vocational training, at the remuneration of teachers and instructors, but we believe that the government's decision to propose funding in the amending budget for the strengthening of vocational training is only a step in the right direction, since this is a one-off financing. The basic work of educational institutions, education, should be supported with sound basic funding over a long period of time. Fixed-term investments also have their place in school life as projects and fixed-term development activities, but not in the remuneration of teachers. In order to ensure the continuity of funding, the Board of Directors should prepare a re-allocation of appropriations for the second level proposed in the Government Programme in such a way that the strengthening of basic work is financed on a permanent rather than decisive basis. The need for additional vocational training teachers is not just for a few years, but is more permanent. Mr President! We will also make five statements in which we will make the following: ‘The Commission requires that the government commits to “The Commission requires that the government is determined Third motion for a resolution: ‘The Parliament requires the Government not to delay And the last two statements: ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepares a new one-off investment financed If state property is decided to be sold, investments must be made in real future investments, such as capitalisation of high-speed interurban rail networks and universities.’ ‘The Commission requires that the appropriations for the organisation of training set [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u129	Mr President! Representative of the Coalition Party Mr Vestman was concerned that the car tax would fall, and that is what the draft amending budget also shows. Worry is justifiable in itself, but the medicine that we will abolish the car tax will not help that problem. It is clear that the trade in new cars would then perhaps increase and thus reduce emissions and consumption in these new cars, but the return on the car tax would then be zero and not something else, as it is today. It should also be remembered that even those cars used are paid for when they are imported, car tax to Finland, and the other thing that is good to take into account in this reduction in car tax is that although it sounds like a good goal in itself, it would be a very significant tax reduction for those Finns who are able to buy new cars, but the majority of Finns — even if we abolish the car tax altogether — are on a low income that they are not able to buy new cars. This, too, must have an impact on the way in which this reduction in car tax is viewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u136	Mr Harakka has asked for the floor. He did not receive the floor in the previous round, so I will now give him a two-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I was thinking of asking for the floor at this stage when questions were raised about the management of employment and Mrs Salmon was quite right and rightly referring to it. Indeed, the most important management of employment is future investment of this kind, both private and, in this case, additional budget, public investment in transport and training which create the jobs. This is about hundreds of millions of investments and also about thousands of man-years. So this was short-term employment measures, but of course the long-term achievements are more important. Fast, climate-friendly rail tracks bring employees to work, expand the working area and ensure that Finnish employers get the workforce that they necessarily need. In addition, when specific measures were asked what has been mobilised in this three-week period, we have naturally assessed at the Ministry of Labour what are the groups listed in the Government Programme, whose employment rate is not as high in Finland as in our Nordic neighbours, for example, whose employment rate has already exceeded 75% in most cases, which is now the common objective of this Chamber. I can tell you here the three groups which are being given special attention and where action is already being taken. First of all, the people who are able We have 65,000 people who are willing to work, who, in their opinion, are also capable of working, who are desperate to enter the labour market. We could help them get involved. Second, older workers. We have a difference of more than 10 percentage points between Sweden and how the most experienced workers are still in employment. And a third, of course, of the long-term unemployed, who will be helped by making a significant contribution to the wage subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u138	Madam President! Admittedly, this report by the Committee on Finance has also given rise to a very colorful debate. Well, that's good. It's serious. The fact that the government is moving quickly is very positive, and the fact that we disagree slightly on the way in which it is being done is justifiable, but I would point out in my own speech that, as we expected, this situation, which is economic in Finland and what employment is still like, does not yet have a satisfactory level of employment, needs to get more people to work. In that respect, this amending budget of the government, which came quickly, quickly prepared for this Parliament, is a very positive thing. In fact, the debate on small pensions should extend to the last parliamentary term, when Prime Minister Sipilä's government increased bail pensions by almost EUR 50. The fact that it is reflected in the income of a small pensioner on the principle of ‘pure hand’,as the highest tax paid,isextremely important for this person,and we will continue to increase your 50thyear-olds and,in the coming years,more so,to the It must be acknowledged that getting a pension for a small pensioner closer to a thousand euros a month must be the goal we are genuinely aiming for, because in today's life, the small income of a pensioner to pay a medical bill or to get food for his own home has unfortunately been an overwhelming task for many so far. It must be a matter of honour in Parliament that a person can make a decent living for himself and receive a pension. It is good to remember, however, that these people have done a long life's work for Finland, and that is something we should respect in the Finnish Parliament. However, the debate on transport policy was rather strange in itself, because these rail projects, to which this additional budget will significantly increase money, must be seen beyond its edge: by investing in railway projects it will save the road network drastically when heavy traffic is transferred to the iron wheels, it will reduce the burden on the road. It is also a strong environmental act in accordance with this government's programme, because when goods are transported by rail — usually by electric train — they emit a little less emissions into the atmosphere than diesel alone. Of course, diesel locomotives are needed, because not all Finnish railways have electrification yet, but development is taking place on that side too. It is worth recalling the fact that when wood is transported to sawmills and pulp mills more and more by rail — certainly by rubber wheels and swimming and by ships — so every mott that leaves the forest for processing produces almost EUR 120 added value for the nation, i.e. it is the added value of Luke, the Natural Resources Centre, for Finnish society in terms of research. It is also worth remembering that there are different small processing plants, there are many small saws, there is a carpentry industry, there are many things, and a new industry like this is being built in Finland all the time, for example the GFN bio-oil plant in Lieksa, which uses less valuable wood to produce wood-based oil that can be used as a refined fuel additive or for many other purposes. It is exactly the kind of project that will bring so much more work and tax revenue to Finnish society in its various forms and, above all, to mobilise Finnish investments. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth remembering that investments in the forest industry are almost entirely Finnish work and Finnish competence. All machinery, equipment, sawmill equipment, pulp mill equipment, electrical engineering, chemical engineering — all of this — more than 90% are manufactured in Finland. In other words, when we set up a factory, even a pulp mill, or a saw, almost all its equipment comes from Finland. In other words, since it supports Finnish employment very well, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, that when we take strong positions on issues, even if we now limit the use of forests, we can see beyond the wall that if we do not do this ourselves, no one from outside this country will help us. While we manage our forests properly, we manage the national economy very well, offer people a lot of work and, above all, we value Finnish technology. Finally, Mr President, let us take one example of how this system works. Now that some small saw is processing sawn wood from the beam, the equipment that this small saw has is certainly Finnish production. When you drive trees from the forest to the side of the road and bring them to the factory for processing, you do Finnish work on the last one. That's something you should always remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u139	Madam President! I would like to make a brief comment on what was discussed earlier in relation to this transport budget. I wonder what this confrontation was about to create between road and rail investment. After all, the aim of this amending budget was first to mobilise the projects that can be launched as soon as possible and then to select the development projects — as stated here in the report of the Committee on Finance — ‘to improve the conditions for economic activity, to increase exports and to improve rail and road traffic mobility’. I do not quite understand this confrontation between rail and road transport. Tracks are also needed for a variety of purposes. The need to move along the tracks has increased, but above all, as Mr Hoskonen has strongly demonstrated before us, the Finnish forest industry needs our rail links. And I am delighted that many of the quieter rail connections will be allocated this time on the basic route management side, especially since in my own region this Saarijärvi-Haapajärvi rail link will now be eligible for rehabilitation funding. From Jyväskylä through Äänekoski to Saarijärvi some ten years ago, the basic refurbishment has been made, and now we can put worse things in good shape. This is very important because, with the strong growth of the forest industry and the use of wood, and possibly with the implementation of these future new pulp mill projects, the direction of our timber transport in the country will change, and therefore even these quieter rail links will be extremely important for this timber management. Every time a tree goes along the track for further processing, it is better than walking on rubber wheels to consume it on our road network. And from a climate point of view, it is also much better that these heavy-duty transports are carried out along our extensive rail network. And for that reason, a big thank you for these rehabilitation appropriations, which is what is here on the basic route management side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u140	Mr President! I, too, have to climb up here to thank the government for this amending budget. It includes important future investment in infrastructure, education and the development of basic services. I would also like to thank Finland for knowingly being seen as a country in which there is a desire to provide a wide range of opportunities for living, taking into account the infrastructure needs in the various provinces now. I would like to express my particular thanks as a representative of a hundred people: appropriations were allocated to the streets of Mynämäki and Eurajoki—Luvianohituskaisto. Both improve the smooth movement of both companies and individuals and improve the safety of the road. The development of Highway 8 is a vital project for the whole of Satakunta and Varsinais-Suomi. The eight-way is a major freight route to the West, as there is no parallel rail link, and therefore the confrontation between road and rail is artificial, at least in south-west Finland. There are export ports along the road, and there is also plenty of commuting on the bus. By the way, the biggest investments in the Nordic countries are also along this road, including Olkiluoto 3, HK-Scan, Valmet Automotive and so on. In addition to the 30,000 jobs already created, an estimated 30,000 jobs are expected to be expected in south-west Finland. It must be said, therefore, that these infrastructure projects have a significant impact on employment: if they do not employ much in that road renovation, then they will create conditions for businesses located in the region. That is why it has already been said that next year's budget must also provide additional funding for the upgrading of the intersection of the Eura River on Route 8 and the intersection of Laitila. I think it is very important that the negative effects of the legislative reform of vocational education and training carried out last season are now also addressed by an increase of EUR 20 million in the recruitment of teachers. This, if anything, is a real future act. A survey published by the OAJ in April of this year revealed that more than half of the vocational education and training teachers who responded to the survey reported a decrease in teaching in educational institutions. On the other hand, 60 percent of teachers said that they were not able to visit the workplace often enough to guide the student, and less than half of the teachers had enough opportunities to talk to the workplace instructors. It has been very sad to get contacts from young people, their parents and teachers about the lack of adequate education. It is wrong to leave students in vocational education and training on their own when so many of them still need the support of a teacher. It is very important that this issue should be addressed immediately in the amending budget. Mr President! I have been a Kela delegate for two seasons, and we have been very concerned about how good political policies have been far more difficult to put into practice. That is why I am pleased to welcome the Government's preparation for the next Government's goal for Kela. That's exactly how it's supposed to be done. I feel realistic and I know that everything needs to be completely successful in order to achieve the objectives of the Government Programme. However, I do not understand the pessimistic attitude of the opposition, which says in advance that it is not worth trying, because you will not succeed. In this way it would not be encouraging for anyone to start work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u146	Madam President! The debate has raised concerns about roads, and this maintenance and development of roads is a very important issue. From the centre we could say that we are a party for roads and private motoring too, and that is why, in the negotiations of the government, we kept to our line that the maintenance and development of both roads and private roads and other routes must be secured, and this was not even difficult, because we Finns understand it widely, as has been pointed out from all sides of the hall, that both roads and tracks are important to us and absolutely necessary. There's more money coming to the highways. I'm gonna have to hold my breath a little longer. We agreed in the Government Programme that the roads will be invested and developed, and we are now waiting for the actual budget that will come in the autumn. As a motorist in Oulu, I personally am very pleased with this amending budget and getting more money to repair the Oulu railway yard and complete the deep harbour. And that message from my hometown to this Parliament has been that we are very satisfied with this across party lines. Mr Vehviläinen has already said that such a confrontation between, for example, the benefits of pensioners or families with children and the improvement of services is completely pointless and there is no need for this. Yes, our recent government programme shows how much significant improvements are going to be made to the situation of children, young people and families. I myself was in the social security group during the government negotiations, and we agreed on improvements, increases, including the smallest parental allowance, child allowances for families with multiple children and single-parent families, the separation of care allowance and maintenance allowance. And we agreed, for example, that the availability of home services for families with children and the adequacy of child protection staff should be improved throughout the country. What has already been well mentioned here is how, when we are discussing matters, these things will become clearer. I myself would like to draw attention to what Mr Koskinen said at that early stage, that these increases in the amending budget for Kela do not apply only to pensions. If this proposal is read in detail, it states that EUR 5 and a half million of the amending budget is due to decisions under the Government Programme to increase the number of small pensions and to ‘implement other decided benefit changes’ —toimplement other decided benefit changes. Many families are now waiting to see when these increases agreed on in the Government Programme, such as child allowances, are coming, and I hope that we will soon receive answers from the minister responsible. As far as the reform of family leave is concerned, I would like to say that the situation of families and equality in no way improves, for example, by undermining the interests of domestic mothers or fathers. For us in the centre, it is absolutely essential that family leave reform is an improvement and not a weakening of families. That is why we have in no way agreed to and will not agree to the plans of some of those who are not in the government to cut the allowance for home care or to shorten the parental leave period for mothers. Family leave reform must definitely be an improvement for families. The situation of housewives and fathers should be improved, for example, by granting a full pension benefit to a home nurse. Currently, domestic mothers and domestic fathers lose pension benefits during those times when they are at home caring for children, there is not enough pension accumulation. It would be a real equality and an improvement in the situation of families, so that child care work at home would be considered as valuable as in day care, for example. Home mothers and fathers are doing a very valuable and important job, and there is no need to start weakening their situation — and now the government programme says it is not weakening, it is a valuable thing. We, as a family party, are very pleased with this extension of the freedom of fathers as agreed in the Government Programme without shortening the leave of mothers. The family is a basic unit of society, and when the families are well, the whole of Finland is well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u147	Mr President! In the report by the Committee on Finance, we welcomed the fact that the government has given such an important amending budget at a truly brisk pace. The first amending budget of the new government makes real investments in the future. It invests in transport projects, among other things. In particular, it includes flood-looking railway projects. For example, the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main railway line is a very important project at national level. The main railway line is the bottleneck of Finnish train traffic. There's a way through. Helsinki is also home to the majority of regional long-distance trains. It is also a very difficult bottleneck for us living in Uusimaa for commuting to Helsinki. If you ever look at the number of passenger journeys per section of the track, there is the busiest and most congested section between Kerava and Helsinki. It is therefore very important to improve the operating conditions for commuter trains on the main track. Mr President! In addition, the government invests in vocational education and training to provide us with the new talent that business needs. These investments will help young people to find employment. During the period 2013-2018, a total of up to EUR 400 million was allocated to vocational education and training. As a result of the cuts made, the number of teachers and other teaching staff has been reduced, although the number of students has not decreased accordingly. The current number of teaching and guidance staff will no longer be able to secure adequate training and guidance for all young people who have completed basic education and have no qualifications. It is therefore very important that the additional EUR 20 million proposed by the government could be employed already during this year, i.e. in the autumn, with a maximum of 300 to 400 new teachers or other teaching staff. Mr President! Unfortunately, in today's earlier debate, poor pensioners and marginalised young people were confronted on the right side of the Chamber. That's harsh. That's cruel. Four years ago, the Coalition Party and also the Finns Party stood firmly behind the policy of freezing the indexes of national pensions and increasing the customer fees of health care and the self-responsibility of medical benefits. Fortunately, the present government understands better the right side of the hall that both young and low-income pensioners should be invested in.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u151	Mr President! I would now say to Mr Salmonkoski that it is worth listening carefully to the debate. Under no circumstances have the True Finns spoken against young people, children and the elderly. It has been a coalition that holds the speeches. There are several parties in the opposition, we are not one lump, we have different policies. Do not give the listeners the impression that we as basic Finns were against this. I would ask you to pay particular attention to the fact that there is no misunderstanding in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u152	Mr President! I addressed Mrs Zyskowicz at this point when I spoke about this contrast between pensioners and young people. But the representative The sea will hardly be able to deny that it was voting in favour of these cuts, which I explained in the next sentence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u153	Mr President! If we want more detailed arguments and clarification as to how, for example, increases in small pensions are to be made and in what extent, I do not think that this is a confrontation, but it is a genuine question of how the government intends to implement its plans. There is no point in putting words in our mouths when we ourselves have not said so. Of course, in the last period, decisions were also taken which this government does not have to take here because difficult decisions were also taken to improve employment, among other things. Not all of them are nice, but 140,000 new jobs now make it possible for our economy to turn to higher levels and also to increase spending somewhat. Of course, we will continue to reflect on the fact that the government's overall picture is based on a 75% employment rate, how you intend to do this, because we have not yet seen employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u154	Mr President! I admit that I have spoken earlier, to which Mr Lohikoski referred, in other words, I wonder where it is appropriate to put limited resources in any case. As far as the meeting is concerned, I think it has become quite clear in this debate that the key to the criticism of the coalition has been that, first of all, under the leadership of Prime Minister Rinte, the Social Democrats promised all pensioners who earn less than EUR 1400 a month an increase of EUR 100. Secondly, we said that half of this promise has already been omitted, since it has been said that the government is now working to give EUR 50 per month to those who earn less than EUR 1000 and the rest has been left in the internal arrangements of the earnings-related pension scheme — I wonder what they are. At the moment, we have expressed strong doubts as to whether it will suffice even for the EUR 180 million that has been promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u155	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u156	Mr President! Pensioners have high expectations for the regime that has begun. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised pensioners who were earning less than EUR 1,400 a 100-euro stand-up voucher. As has been heard here, it has already shrunk to EUR 50. And, as has been heard here, Mr Koskinen, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, said that the money will be sufficient if the number is limited to pensioners who receive less than EUR 1000. According to Kela’s main mathematician, this 180 million, which is earmarked for this, is not even enough for 50 euros. So what's left of this? We have not yet been given an answer here. [MariaGuzenina’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u172	Mr President! This happened very well that it was Mr Laiho who spoke first. It made me dig up the collection's own tax program, which the Coalition Party would have wanted. Yes, I was very surprised, and again I saw if it could be true,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, after every other speech we are not going to the debate. Just a moment ago, there was a good debut. Let's go to the list of speakers, Mr. Pirttahhti is already there waiting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the government for a rapid amending budget. In this breath, I must say right away that the Sipilä Government contributed very well to these road and bus projects, but we had a very thin budget for 2019 so that this supplementary budget came to an excellent place, complementing this continuity, that our network of roads was being developed. The great thing about this is, of course, that net borrowing will be reduced by around EUR 136 million, and the great thing still remains is that these many bus projects will improve the operating conditions of the business community — exports will be improved, rail and road traffic will be smooth. These projects, on the basis of which they have been selected, are in the order in which they were ready to take off immediately. Indeed, there are projects that have long been waiting for progress to be made, as in Pirkanmaa, it is very important that this passing of the Three Hämeenkyro is carried forward. Of course, in Pirkanmaa, as Mr Viitanen has said here, we have a number of projects. For example, the development of a ninetie, which is very dangerous, the development of a road from Tampere to Jyväskylä, and there are plans as well. Let us hope that funding will come to that too. As far as Pirkanmaa is concerned, when comparisons were made in the 10-year curve, it seems to have been in the 15-year curve that Pirkanmaa has received one third of the funding for these fairway projects in proportion to its population, even though these main routes in our region are excellently split. Mr Honkonen made a good point about these silent rail links. They will also be refurbished here. It is a very good thing that we also get the tree moving along the tracks. And for the first breath, it must also be said that the current government is also investing in the private road network and also in these forest cars. It comes through different funding, but this whole chain for timber transport can also be improved. What is also important is that even these silent rail connections are equipped with electrification money. It will then be possible to use the same equipment as the main rail networks, such as the rail link that is rising from Iisalm. I also hope that one day I will see the electrification between Orivesi and Seinäjoki, that we will also be able to use electric locomotives for freight transport there, and this will also be the case with climate change. The representative of Vehviläinen wondered what the name ‘main track’ is and why this is called. Of course, this historical basis is that the gap between Helsinki and Hämeenlinna has been the first, but when we look at these levels of track use, it was pointed out that there are about 6.5 million passengers in Tikkurila or even a little bit ahead, until Tampere we have 4.5 million passengers, and when we compare them anywhere in Finland, these are just top figures. I think this is where the province of the President-in-Office and then the Kotka freight traffic may go by with regard to these quantities of rail and tonnage, and it is an excellent thing in this plan that the Kotka-Kouvola rail link should be improved and also that of our strong port of export. But the main track and the main track plus — I see that the name is correct, and it is great that they start planning them. But as I said before, this is only a planning phase. First, was it this way that rail planning and then general planning, or the other way around? There may also be complaints, namely that these investments can only take about four years to come. I hope, of course, that this planning can be speeded up here, and can this Chamber also play a part in ensuring that this project is actually implemented? Mr President! As far as Pirkanmaa is concerned, it would also be important to build this roundwood terminal on Akaa, and then also to look at the funding of the Ely Centre for these quieter roads, which is promised. The Ely Centre has promised a release of approximately 12 million funding for these new coating improvements. These are absolutely excellent things. And briefly, because the government is aiming at this 75% employment rate, these projects are promoting it, and I think it is an excellent thing that this 20 million investment in vocational education and training is between the teachers who direct it and the business community. We are in the middle of a second-degree reform and this is a very important part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u181	Mr President! Personally, I would like to thank the government for having received funding for rail projects and for having also received additional funding for repairs. However, I am sad that, for example, when I have brought up Mäntsälä-Hanko- Hyvinkää-tie here on several occasions, it is on the list ‘always’. That is why I was delighted to see our Committee on Finance protest from the Finns of Peru. The Hanko- Hyvinkää road has been renovated, bottlenecks and things like this have been brought up well — and many more. I would like to remind you that the government's economy is based on a very high degree of economic growth and employment, and good transport connections are a and a. The network is second, the road is second. I myself do not put them against each other, because they both need the same amount. People travel by car to the train and then by car to work. This should be the case and will continue to be the case. Let me remind you, let's not forget these roads. Mr Lindtman, the representative of the SDP, spoke about the fact that when the reign began, there was no road budget. There was no money for anything back then. I remember when we began, the True Finns, a government match in 2015. We were almost on the verge of bankruptcy, and 100,000 new unemployed people had just arrived in Finland after the Social Democrats’ reign. It was a truly terrible situation, so be glad that this is not the same situation. I hope that 100,000 new unemployed people will not come, because very far this budget will be built up with the growth and employment of the economy. It is a pity that Mr Lindtman is no longer here when I have two supplementary budgets for the Hanko- Hyvinkää road and I would have liked him to be able to vote in favour of them tomorrow when he asked for them. I'm sure you can give him my best that he can get some more money here on Hanko- Hyvinkää road tomorrow if that's what he's looking at when he asked for them. The second thing Tavio, the Chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group, asked Minister Ohio about was reintroducing and what it means when money is being invested in it. When you look at yesterday's programme, there is talk of this in the EU programme that more work and resources should be directed towards the reintegration of returned immigrants. Minister Ohio replied that there were no return agreements with all countries. He talked about refunds, but it's not about refunds, it's about reintegration. Are we moving employment and social services to Africa or Iran or Iraq gradually? So the question is whether our official machinery and employment services are now expanding elsewhere. There was no response to this and then he left the Chamber so that the representative could: Unfortunately, Mr Tavio was unable to say whether you could answer the question. — — — — I can't see around the corner, but at least the Prime Minister is sitting there so they can answer the other questions if they know what this is. Of course, if you don’t know and you don’t know, so that it’s just a record, then it’s really hard to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u184	As I said before the last two speeches, not every other speaker will respond, but Mr Multala is already in the toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u185	Mr President! First of all, we need to clarify a little bit that when you take pieces from our election program, you should read the tax note in full. Our idea was precisely to shift the focus to the taxation of harm, especially the taxation of environmental damage, while at the same time reducing the tax burden on labour, thereby compensating the cost to consumers. However, Mr President, I would like to thank the government for the fact that the amending budget contains funding for many of the necessary items. Good employment developments will continue to make it possible to reallocate money within the budget and even put a little more money into transport projects, for example. Many of the necessary projects will be mobilised, such as money for planning the development of the main line and other very necessary targets that are currently bottlenecks. However, I hope that we will soon be able to move forward with regard to high-speed rail connections. The previous government set up a 100 % state-owned project company, Pohjolan Rautat Oy, which was transferred to a share capital of approximately EUR 100 million. Therefore, the planning of the lines could have been started with this capital right now. A large proportion of the cities in the railway sector have also made a commitment to join at least in the planning work, including, among other things, Minister of Transport Marin’s own hometown of Tampere. Track-specific project companies have yet to be set up, but there is money for planning, and only the decision to start planning is therefore lacking. If the government thinks that it will make all the towns along the track commit even before the planning begins, it may well be that we will wait for the planning to begin longer than this government will last. Hopefully this will not be the case, but the project companies will be allowed to do the planning work as soon as possible. Less attention has been paid to transport investments in vocational education and training. It is very good that money is now being allocated to the recruitment of teachers. However, I am still concerned that we have received very different answers to our question as to how long this funding is intended. In the past, Minister of Finance Lintilä said that the money would run out in 2023. Today, the same Finance Minister, Lintilä, said that the funding will be for five years. From this I cannot determine the way in which these two years are to be financed. Does this mean that these are part of the spending limits, which means that the money is not currently being shown in the government programme? On the other hand, Minister Andersson answered this question when we asked him. He also said that teachers would be hired for five years, and then he said that there would also be permanent funding for a second stage within the framework of the future budget. However, when I look at this ‘Finland of Knowledge, Education and Innovations’ section,in which these budget figures are broken down,thereisin this case a second rate of money,but it is intended to extend the teaching obligation. And, as we all know, especially those of us who have sat in the Committee on Education, the 107 million allocated to this will barely be enough for learning materials, i.e. not at all for teaching. In the previous debate, in which I did not receive the floor, I would have praised Mr Gustafsson, an education politician whom I appreciated, for admitting that all these contributions to the quality of primary school through the equal opportunities programme, the quality of early childhood education and the equality programme, continuous learning and so on are needed in order to benefit from the extension of compulsory education. I have wondered, however, why you are doing all the necessary things with temporary sales revenue and have not primarily prioritised them to form part of permanent financing. There is no doubt that extending compulsory education will not help young people who need help at the age of early childhood education or in the first classes of comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u186	As I said before Mr Multala, after every other speech, we will not start with a debatable round.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u187	Mr President! Now follows this kind of short, more positive speech. In fact, I would like to say a few words to thank the government for this draft amending budget. We have a future government that aims to build a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable Finland. Creating a sustainable basis for the future requires long-term investment and sustainable decisions. One of these conditions for a sustainable future is investing in education. The government's EUR 20 million contribution to the recruitment of vocational training teachers can therefore only be commended. Young people have a future. They should be given and not just taken from them. This investment is also significant at regional level. Many regions, such as my country, Satakunta, depend entirely on the availability of high-quality secondary education and therefore good skilled labour in different sectors. The fact that young people receive high-quality local education and good skills for working life is in everyone's interest. This investment is one that brings savings in the long run from elsewhere. Thanks have also been given to the Government's contribution to basic bus maintenance and the development of the fairway network, which is currently under discussion. As a representative of the Parliament, the pass lanes of Kasitien Mynämäki and Luvia and the highway 3 Hämeenkyrö bypass, all of which are relevant to the accessibility of Satakunta, warm up the mind. All right, remember, Satakunta is an export county. Despite our small size, our share of Finnish exports is 6.9 per cent. Good transport connections will allow companies to remain in Satakunta. We in Satakunta, as I am sure all the other provinces will continue to have projects to wait for, but we should be grateful at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u188	Mr President! On this point, it is easy to continue with the thanks of Mrs Viljanen. The amending budget is a very strong and strong effort and effort from the government towards a better future, towards a stronger future. In the amending budget, as has already been said here, there is a clear focus on both road transport and rail transport. Of the efforts made by road transport, I find great joy in measures such as the Hämeenkyrö bypass on Highway 3 — a very strong, strong freeway where the needs of industry, for example, are served with these improvements. One of the measures for road transport, which may still be waiting for the next time, relates to Highway 19 of Ostrobothnia, which is part of the regional and national basic bus network. For its part, it will need measures in the future, so that it will provide a strong service to South-South traffic. Measures for rail transport, for example, with regard to the main track, are necessary for Helsinki-Tampere, but I also welcome the numerous speeches made by government ministers that the main track is always seen as a whole from Helsinki towards the north, towards Oulu, and the Government is well aware of the dual railing needs of Tampere-Säinäjoki, for example. All these measures in the amending budget are a strong employment policy, they are a strong regional policy, they are a strong future policy. We must also remember the fact that, from 2020 onwards, a level increase of 300 million will be used to improve the basic route, which is also an excellent measure for the future. There has now been much discussion here about these measures for pensioners. Personally, I share the strong joy of the government’s pompous and tedious departure of smaller pensions to head for increases. We must also give thanks to the previous government, where, among other things, the Coalition Party and partly the Finns of Finland were involved, when guaranteed pensions were well raised. The government will continue this haughty policy. The investments in vocational education and training are also extremely smart and elegant education policies, which show the fact that the government sees the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u189	Mr President! It is good that all the key ministers are also here to listen to this important debate. The investments in rail projects are good. It is good that the focus is on the tracks. What I would like even more in the future would be more detailed about these projects and their content. Of course, this has been a matter of urgency for the moment, but I am sure that will be the case in the future. A great deal of strength for Minister Marin when these wishes come from different sides, that this assessment is based in some way on knowledge and research on what should be promoted, and, of course, on some kind of equity. These current projects, which have apparently been prepared in the previous parliamentary term, are many of which I asked for more information, they were said to be such business-like projects. I would therefore like us to remember, as we have just done in the programme of the Finnish Presidency yesterday, that our growth potential is closely linked to the functioning of the service sector, the development of the digital data-driven economy, innovation, new technologies and business models, and so on. In the long term, economic growth and jobs depend on industrial change towards the full deployment of the potential of digitalisation and so on. When it comes to business, we also think very carefully when it comes to corporate subsidies, who we serve and whether we have made the best cost-benefit assessment in society, just as we in the Committee on Finance also required in our own opinion that the benefits-cost effects, benefits-cost calculations and socio-economic impact be made very widely. There are good projects waiting for me, and I also got more information about them. Espoo’s urban railway is one of the things that is worth considering. Helsinki—Riihimäki is a long way off. The development of the Tampere passenger railway yard has also progressed, and Hanko- Hyvinkää has been mentioned. There's a lot of projects here. Then these main lines and project models are also very important, including the question of what this structure of our economy is and where we want to go and what kind of economy we are going to promote with our infrastructure projects. I hope that very well thought-out decisions will be made in the future. Oh, yes, a lot of wisdom for that minister. Just as you referred to in the previous debate, further clarification is needed on these decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u190	Mr President! The amending budget states that a temporary immigration and return expert will be placed in Iraq. During the last parliamentary term, we heard in the Administrative and Security Section that there are still thousands of Iraqis in Finland whose location, place, activities are neither known nor known at all. Well, it is obvious that a large number of these people, as if they were missing, have returned by themselves to Europe or possibly to their country of birth, but we do not know exactly how many of them are still here. That is why it is good that agreements and negotiations are being sought with Iraq, that they take back their own citizens. The problem is that we do not have a return agreement with Iraq, they are not willing to do so. Sweden has a return agreement, but it is practically meaningless because the Iraqis do not respect it. So, what has happened during the last parliamentary term? Foreign Minister Soini mentioned the PCA agreement, which will enable the EU to use a little more leverage in the negotiations, that EU support and these return issues will be lumped together so that Iraqis will then receive their own citizens. I ask — aha, Minister Ohio is not here, but perhaps the Minister of Finance or Prime Minister knows: Why is this temporary? Is this going to be all right in a year? And how do you see for yourself whether there should be such consideration? However, when we give humanitarian aid, reconstruction, education, tens of millions to Iraq, but they do not respond to their own citizens, should this be conditional, as it were, on our support, but we expect them to take back their own citizens and then use this PCA agreement, the EU lever rod, as much as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u191	Finally, let us give the ministers the opportunity to respond. — Mr Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u192	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Marin. In the Committee on Legal Affairs last season, I noticed that you are accomplishing a lot and a lot of things quickly, and now you have, thank you for that. But somehow it feels — all these transport projects are really important — that Uusimaa is now a little forgotten or, at least, expected. That is a bit disappointing here, but I know that you will, and I have a suggestion at the end of it for you about what will be done in the autumn. However, Uusimaa is an area where people pack up. We already have, you can say, a lot of people, and more will come, whether we like it or not, just come here. There's got to be a way around here. Hanko — Hyvinkää road — must now apparently say Hanko — Mäntsälä road — be put in order. It's dangerous and it's clogged. But these rail projects must also be brought forward. There has been a lot of talk here about the Espoo city track, and it is not enough to find out now. I've had enough of that cleared up. It is now ready to be implemented. It doesn’t matter now that a decision is made — from here in the capital region to the north, east or west, or if you make the tunnel from Espoo to that Tallinn, you still need the Espoo city track. It is needed because of the trajectory, because of the main track, because of the railway yard, because of the Turku hour train, and it would be ready to be implemented at the moment. This is a necessary railway project. When I know, Marin, that you really are a man, that you would get this track project started quickly, so that it would not be possible for this to happen in the autumn, now in September, to go to Kauklahti — the Espoo village of the year — and to put a shovel together, even if it is in the fine field of Kauklahti and to start this Espoo track. It's not ready for it. You will do things quickly again, as you do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u195	Mr President! I would like to raise a few points that have been covered in this debate. Mr Meri was very concerned about this reintegration, and I personally see it as important to invest in it too, because this will then prevent this so-called'return shopping' from happening again, but people genuinely have the conditions and conditions that they will also stay in their country of origin once they have returned from here. Moreover, in the Government Programme, I am very pleased that there is a commitment to conclude these new return agreements with the various countries. Mr Kiuru asked a good question here, which I also think is worth assessing: would it be appropriate, at a time when Finland is supporting the reconstruction of Iraq, to demand something from it for its own citizens, while ensuring that the fundamental and human rights of all are realised? These appropriations for Africa were also raised here by the Finns, and I am surprised to hear them. In its Government Programme, the Government is clearly committed to putting the focus on development cooperation at the expense of illegal migration from Africa, ensuring that the conditions in these countries of origin are such that there is no need to leave it, and that is an extremely good policy. I would also like to remind you that at the moment fewer asylum seekers arrive in Finland than ever in this millennium, about 2,400 last year, and the trend is falling. I believe that the guidelines of this government programme will also be able to maintain it and Finland will be able to fulfil its international obligations by preferring quota refugees, who certainly all have refugee status and are genuinely in need of help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u196	Mr President! Understandably, the debate on the amending budget has focused on these infrastructure projects, which have a lot of good and justified projects. The Government has announced its emphasis on regional policy, and this is reflected in the fact that these major high-speed rail links for the benefit of the whole of Finland, especially for the major cities, did not start at the speed that would have been possible. The most far-reaching of these projects has been the Turku hour train connection, for which it would be possible to proceed even as soon as the phase of the study is so advanced. I would have asked again, when Minister Marin is present, whether the emphasis on the amending budget included EU funding for CEF, for which it would have been possible to apply for EU funding for the launch of the Turku hour train, to a very significant extent, specifically for the Espoo urban track, which would now be ready to start. It would be possible to obtain up to 20-30% of this investment, and these are the timetables to be set by the Commission. Now this autumn's search would have been so fast that it would have been possible to start doing this already and to make use of this significant funding, which would be coming from the EU's direction. The Turku hour train would support the Government’s objectives from the climate perspective as well as from the employment perspective. That would be a great thing to do, which is just to get started. The Coalition Party proposed that EUR 6.5 million be allocated to the launch of this section of the Espoo urban railway line, which could be found without an increase in the total budget. This would be a rapid, very impressive climate and employment action that the government could, if it wished, put in place immediately. But I would like to ask you about this application schedule for the CEF money and how it will be taken into account when making these priorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u197	Mr President! The importance of rail investment has been questioned in this Chamber today. Roads and tracks have been set against each other. In my opinion, this confrontation is completely pointless and even strange when we know the challenges facing Finland in terms of increasing employment. By rail, we can influence working areas, extend them to employment and industrial environments. High-speed rail connections make it possible to receive work further and further, and one of the main obstacles to employment growth is the availability of skilled labour in Finland. Industrial investments are also directed to where connections are played and knowledge is widely available. Rail tracks are an effort to improve the Finnish economy. Rail tracks are critical for the success of Finland as a whole. Their initial investments are expensive, but they pay for themselves. It is for this reason that the railway companies are a sensible way to mobilise more large projects in the near future. Indeed, there are many projects in Finland, and it is good to make decisions on these large projects carefully, preparing and assessing their effectiveness. Rapid rail projects between urban areas in the south and in the north to improve the competitiveness of rail transport in the air transport sector are of the utmost importance when we are looking for carbon neutral Finland and carbon neutral transport. Even if we are able to move on to clean technology, which this government is also going to promote, then the condition of cities will not be sufficient for increasing passenger car traffic, that space will be needed for new residents. The need for the main track has also emerged today. The main railway line differs from other rail traffic in Finland because it is becoming part of the European TEN-T network, which makes it possible to obtain EU funding for its project. I would also like to remind you that 60% of Finnish residents and jobs are on the main track. Along the main railway line are three of the five largest cities in Finland and other major growth centres. Transverse traffic connected to the main track can indeed be talked about Finland’s most significant section of the track — the main line. With the refurbishment of the Kemi-Tornio link, which is included in the Government Programme, the main track will also be our connection with Sweden and Europe as a whole. Train connection to Europe enables sustainable tourism for both Finns and Europeans between Northern Finland and Europe. The improvement promoted by the Government in Tampere and Helsinki will speed up travel times throughout northern Finland. However, I would remind you that there is still only one track north of Ylivieska on the main track. The number of passengers between Oulu and Helsinki has increased sharply, and the traffic on one track is very vulnerable. I believe and hope that we will be able to improve this in the later budgetary rounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u198	Mr President! In its amending budget, the Government proposes to invest a new temporary immigration and return expert in Iraq. It is good if this means that the government is going to make an effective return to Iraq. After all, the courts will soon, hopefully, become a major final decision on asylum applications. The effective return of those who have received a negative decision will then be a matter of urgency. True, the Red - Green Government Programme raises concerns about the extent to which the government intends to make these returns. After all, before the elections, the aim of the SDP, the Greens and the Left to get the negative decision to stay in Finland with a work permit has already been recorded. There is a great risk that the snow market will be created as a bypass to the problem of living standards. Is this, Prime Minister Rinne, the government's objective? As Mr Kiuru said earlier, the problem is that Finland does not have a bilateral return agreement with Iraq. Mr Kiuru was already right yesterday to ask whether the PCA agreement with Iraq, which was concluded within the EU framework, works at all. There were no answers to this then. Without new means, problems with return should continue. It is unacceptable that, at a time when Iraq, for example, refuses to accept its own citizens effectively, Finland is good at giving Iraq money in the form of development aid. Development cooperation is at best important, even necessary, in order to address the root causes of living standards of living, as Mr Kärnä said there, but the recipient of aid must also be required to bear responsibility, to bear responsibility for his own citizens. Development aid should indeed be conditional on the reception of its own citizens. The pressure of migration to Europe will continue. The 2015 migration crisis must never happen again. It is undeniable that the current system of cross-border asylum seekers does not work. It is still at risk of uncontrolled immigration, of living standards of living. It's not fair to anyone. The asylum system must be refurbished and aid targeted at those genuinely in need of international protection. Contrary to what you sometimes hear, Finland needs an EU to manage immigration. For example, we know from the experiences of early 2016 that Finland is also at risk of uncontrolled immigration from the eastern border. We can't afford to be alone. The Coalition Party has presented European solutions: in particular, strong and secure external borders for the EU and an effective asylum and return system, including reception centres located outside EU borders. How does the government intend to work towards such an overall solution, the EU's asylum provisions when they do not work? I do not believe that the government has opened up the way in which it intends to correct this unworkable system. As the EU Presidency, this would now be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u199	Now let's give it to the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u200	Mr President! The representative Kivisaari asked earlier about the railway capacity of the Tampere-Säinäjoki railway section. That is a good point and a good question. Of course, we have also identified this need in the future. When talking about the number of passengers in Tampere-Säinäjoki, the number of passengers is as large as the number of passengers in Helsinki-Turku, for example. Otherwise, when we talk about the number of passengers on the main line, the passenger numbers are the highest, and especially the further south, the need for additional capacity is significant, that is, we need more capacity. From this point of view too, Pasila-Riihimäki, if you look only at the number of passengers, is probably the most acute. Representative Sirén asked about CEF funding. Of course, this is an important question. We have taken note of this. Now that we are talking about this CEF funding for the coming autumn, it is not a real search, it is an additional search. As far as planning is concerned, it is possible to receive up to 50% of CEF funding, but when we talk about implementation, it is more likely to be less than 20%, and even 20% of the funding — I understand — is already quite large. If you get it, it's very, very good. But, of course, this entity will be taken into account and evaluated as part of these big projects. Mr Tolvanen then asked about the situation in Uusimaa — thank you for the good question. Of course, for Uusimaa the Ring Track, the Western Metro have been major investments, in which the state has also been involved in a large part of it. As regards the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää railway section, the Government has already stated in its minutes that it will be implemented as part of the 2020 budget. From Espoo's urban track here you suggested that if we went to Kauklahti, we put the crash on the ground, and this would come true. Perhaps it will require more than the illegality of Minister Marin and Mr Tolvanen's hoe, that this project should come to fruition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u204	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned for group meetings and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u205	We shall now proceed to the second item of the order of business. — The general discussion will continue and we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u206	Madam President! By the way, I think it's my last speech this season. Little one must criticise government policy in this last speech. For example, EUR 208 million is being put into development aid in Africa. I read a headline here this spring. Under one of the medicine men's mattresses, EUR 130 million of European development aid was found. Well, there's probably another $78 million under the mattress. That's exactly the kind of place where this development aid money goes. I myself have been doing some work and I have seen how it works in Nicaragua in time. Well, the consultant had gone from Finland and taught there to sing the songs of the workers and wave red flags.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u212	Madam President! I'd like to continue with that comment by Mr. Teuvo. [of the fundamental Finnish group : RepresentativeHakkarainen!] Madam President! In the past, the government parties were very disapproving when we talked about the May Day Hundred here in the opposition. On this point, however, I would like to say a few words for myself. Before the preliminary vote on the parliamentary elections, Antti Rinne spoke of the Mayan centa, and he misled a very large number of low-income pensioners, low-income pensioners. That's how it's starting to look now. Those who voted for this party with this usual promise, the Mayan centenary, were apparently waiting for it at the last May. All of you representatives of the government parties know that this government has been cast on this centurion of May Day. The foundation of the government is this centenary of May Day. In the eyes of the people, however, it seems that the SDP has fallen into opposition within the government, because the hundred do not belong. I wanted to ask in that debat, I am the one who has this hundredth in the hands of these low-income pensioners. However, there are good things in this government programme: the road network is being improved, and it really needs to be improved, because the repair debt is quite high. I think that all the money that is being invested in it will improve the situation. But it may have to be even bigger, because the roads are really in bad shape and falling apart, which means that there should now be this money that is being given there, at least to be able to prioritise in such a way as to slow down this road decay. Then the teaching on the second degree is something for which money has been allocated. There, too, we need to give real priority to what the money is being spent on: not necessarily to hire new teachers, but to think very carefully about what it is being spent on there. At the moment there is such a situation that there are very few contact teaching lessons per week. This is unfortunate for the student, but it is also bad for the teacher, because the teacher’s salary depends on the number of hours of instruction. If the number of hours of instruction is low, it may not be possible to apply for a skilled teacher’s staff there. So I hope that we will also think carefully about where that money will be invested at the second level and consider how much local education should be given to students.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u213	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ohio, has just left the hall, but I thank him and the government for their clear policy with regard to the adults in the al-Hol camp, for Finland not taking active steps to help, let alone to get these adult women and men out of this al-Hol camp. This was an important message from Question Time to many Finns, and also from the point of view of our security. In fact, I would have liked to ask the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for the Interior, about this number of police officers in the area of internal security, because we already have a situation in Finland where police training is being pushed down or cut at the moment because this current government under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior, Ohio, is not fulfilling the promises that have been made in the police numbers, that is to say, 7850 police officers. That is not going to happen, and this is why police training is now being pushed down. I would have liked to have heard from Minister Ohio a reply to what led to a very different solution of this kind than that which parties were very much committed to before the elections. It would certainly also have been a good idea to have this supplementary budget for Parliament, and it seems that the Question Time before this debate was even more confusing and confusing this debate around the nurse’s dimension. The Minister has already said that it will be clarified, and he even suggested that it is not quite obvious whether there will be a full nurseship, and that there will be no response to it because it will be. Even in the spring, Minister Kiuru said that it was a matter of a few hours' work and one sentence in the law. Now it seems that this promise is also being betrayed. The question is, can this Rinte government be trusted any more? It seems that, in connection with this debate that we started during the day, the demars were going around this talk about pensions, but we want to talk about pensions now and what the Social Democrats promised. Antti Rinne promised in his famous May Day speech that all Finnish pensioners whose pension is less than EUR 1400 will receive EUR 100 in a clean hand. This changed during the government negotiations, it was halved, the rest was put in the hands of others, and now it seems that it is becoming apparent in the context of the discussion of this amending budget that that half also seems to be halved. Even though Prime Minister Rinne, when he was still here in the Chamber, suggested that this 183 million, which is now earmarked for this first increase, would be sufficient to raise the level of EUR 50, it was quite clear in the committee that that money would not be enough if this were to be done, as it must be done, i.e. without violating the current pension system, i.e. if we were not to create a new form of pension, a certain type of guarantee pension, then this money would not be enough. And when we heard that this 183 million also includes other expenses, money does not seem to be enough. The main mathematician of Kela, Tapio Isolankila, made it quite clear in Helsingin Sanomat that this money, 183 million, will not be enough for all Finnish pensioners with a pension of less than 1000 euros to receive 50 euros in a clean hand, but the truth is something between 20 and 30 euros. If Mrs Viitanen had been here, I would have asked her if she had been surprised at the market place in Tammela, for she has been well aware of the feelings these small pensioners are experiencing. And I am sure that many of those people now feel betrayed and will ask whether they can no longer rely on the word of the Social Democrats and on the promises made by Antti Rinte. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, about the 400,000 pensioners whose pension is between EUR 1000 and EUR 1400, that is, the fork to which current Prime Minister Antti Rinne also promised EUR 100 in a clean hand. They are not going to receive the euro with this Rinne government. They'll ask if this government can be trusted. Can you trust Antti Rinte's word? And I'll answer — can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u214	Madam President! It is, of course, wonderful that the government has taken swift action and that the draft amending budget, which the Committee on Budgets has quickly produced as a report, will enable us to take forward important, concrete projects. These transport projects are particularly good in that area of Inland Finland to promote investment in our forestry and economic activity in the export industry in general. These will also have a knock-on effect on the shift of heavy-duty traffic from rubber wheels to rail, and road safety will improve, the burden on roads will be reduced and so on, so we can welcome these investments as such. However, it is challenging for the government to promise many good things and to finance many good expenditure items as such. For example, one can pick up the fact that the extra effort needed in vocational education and training in itself is EUR 20 million, but it is now quite unclear here in Parliament whether these are permanent measures to which teachers and instructors in vocational education and training are then employed, or whether they are just such short-term tasks. This lack of clarity should not arise for Parliament. It is likely, and certainly justifiable in itself, that these will of course become permanent tasks, but then the government should also be honest with the fact that these are permanent expenditure increases, they will affect the balance of central government finances and, for example, the framework of central government finances in order to increase the sustainability gap. What is completely lacking in this draft amending budget is where we can get more of that revenue side. If this government is really doing this, as we heard in Question Time, for example, when Prime Minister Kiuru said that, as regards the reform of social services, it would be completely abandoned to the previous objectives of curbing expenditure growth — the idea during the previous term of government was that the growth in social expenditure would be curbed by EUR 3 billion, and now the government is saying at the Minister’s mouth that these spending control objectives will be completely abandoned — so if there are billions of this kind of increase in government spending here every week without any proposals on where the revenue comes from, then the big concern here is whether this government can rely on a stable Finland, our beloved country. It's a big worry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u215	Madam President! I am always so realistic about the amending budget that it is not intended to change the whole world yet, but, of course, the first amending budget of this government is of interest in what kind of matters are then first and most necessary to see increases in appropriations. I am pleased that we have started to launch these infrastructural projects and, on the other hand, to implement them quite properly. For example, in Upper Savo, the electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi section of the railway has been one of the things that I have been raising in this Chamber every year in the form of amending budget initiatives or actual budget initiatives, and in that sense it is extremely important that this electrification radiates to a much larger area, i.e. it will affect it all the way to Pietarsaari and then there in the North Savo region will affect the economic potential of the region. Such increases in the amending budget are extremely good and positive signals. But then, in the same breath, it must be said that this appropriation, which is being introduced into the Government's administration as additional wage costs, is particularly confusing. According to the news, we are about to appoint a section, 15 political secretaries and 69 special assistants. Of course, these amounts seem fierce, given the fact that there is an EU Presidency, and I do partly understand the need for an increase and also the fact that, last season, certain mixed portfolios for some ministers were extremely disproportionate. However, these are huge resource increases in the sense that these increases are around EUR 6 million per year on an annual basis and this year the increase is EUR 2.9 million. If we think otherwise that the government has tried to curb the increase in public expenditure, and wage costs have also been constantly trying to curb their growth, and if we are thinking here, too, of the Kiki agreement which has provoked debate on several occasions, how we tried to contain these wage costs, for example, then that is how I feel about this paragraph in this amending budget as something which I will vote against tomorrow. In that sense, it is unfortunate that the government is sending out such a signal at the outset that neither the cost of wages nor the increase in the number of staff is so important. I do not think that this is the right signal for Finns who are forced to pinch on many other issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u216	Mr President! The Government's amending budget includes funding for a number of transport infrastructure projects that are of major importance to business and general transport, traffic flow and safety. First aid also comes to upper secondary vocational education. There is a need for more teachers, for quality in vocational school. Face-to-face education can be increased already this year, and it is of course important when a skilled workforce is needed. With particular satisfaction, I thank the government, and in particular the Minister of Transport and Communications, Marin, for finally starting the Hämeenkyrö bypass. This bottleneck has been raised for decades, but it has not been quite windy until now. It's a good thing the government's working on that. Of course, there are similar bottlenecks and congestion places in many places in Finland, but safety above all is worth looking at when this traffic infrastructure is being developed. That security is, in fact, certainly the most important aspect. Main 9 from Tampere In the direction of Jyväskylä, there is one such area, especially Tampere-Orivesi, where there are problems related to this safety. It is a real mess at times other than rush hour, and it is also in dire need of additional lanes in the future. It is also a very important transport route for industry, and I hope that this will also be taken into account in the Ministry of Transport during this period. Earlier, when Mr Heinonen was concerned and asked questions as to why there has not already been a legal separation — for three weeks the government has been in place — Minister Kiuru said very clearly that it is still going to the opinion of the municipalities, for example, and I am sure that other statements are needed. It is based on good legislation, high quality. I understand that the meeting has had a need for rapid legislative action over the last period, and this has led to poor legislation and many projects being left unfinished, up to the point of war. The aim here is to move forward with quality. One of these is, of course, the taxi law, where the Finns and the National Coalition Party have also been restored. It was a real rhyme and bad legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u218	Mr President! As far as transport projects are concerned, I agree with the previous speaker that it is particularly important from the perspective of Pirkanmaa that the Hämeenkyro highway 3 should be bypassed. I also agree with Asell that the Tampere-Orivesi road, which is the busiest two lane in Finland, also needs improvement. In fact, I was thinking of talking about employment and about how credible or unbelievable this government policy is about it, but I can't wait to say something about today's topic of May Day. This centenary was a subject which was very widely discussed in the electoral fields. I was at the Toijala Market — I do not remember whether the current representative was there at the same time — and then a pensioner came to talk to me, and he said that he came from that demo tent and that he was promised EUR 100 more for his pension. I asked him how much his pension was. He said 1200 euros. Then he asked me how much you promised. I do not know whether there would have been a vote for me or for the assembly if I had said that EUR 150, but I said that I did not go into politics because I made such promises, which I already know is not possible. Instead, I gave him a business card and asked him to call me when the 100 euros came. I'm still waiting for that call. I am afraid that I will be able to wait a long time for that call, because it is not up to this person to probably not have the EUR 100 for his daily life, but unfortunately there is no money for this government and hardly the next government. Mr President! With regard to this employment issue, the economic policy base of the government as a whole has been calculated on the basis of 60,000 employed persons. So it is not 60,000 more, but it is over its basic career the 60,000, perhaps some 75,000 employed with all. It is estimated to balance central government finances with EUR 1.9 billion. In principle, this basic idea is all right if there is a realistic basis here for achieving this objective. At the time when Sipilä’s government was made, the main means of promoting employment were already written in the government programme. I myself was the negotiator in this particular area, and I remember it quite well. It has already been said that in order for new jobs to be created, both work and work should be better paid than in the past so that these jobs can be created. As we know, During the Sipilä government, 140,000 more were born. Now, nothing has been included in this government programme except to consult the social partners. Now that the first discussions with the social partners have been held, the STTK and the EK proposed a differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit, which would undoubtedly be a means of achieving significant progress towards this objective of employment, but was immediately defeated by the SAK. I understand the Prime Minister too. Rinne has said that unemployment benefit will not be affected during this parliamentary term, if I have understood correctly. Now the question is: where are the other means? SAK economist Ilkka Kaukoranta himself told Helsingin Sanomat that he could not prove that the measures proposed by SAK would have any impact on employment, and probably, even if they were good in the long run through education and the rest of the world, they would even increase the general government deficit in this parliamentary term rather than fill it. Now that this seems to be an empty target for employment, and it is not expected that the growth of the world economy will make this easier, and we also have very difficult labour market negotiations ahead of us, it is very likely that these jobs will not be created and that 1.9 billion of them will not be anywhere. And then, as Prime Minister Rinne has said before, the government should give up the expenditure that it has now added to the budget when the revenue side does not come true. Does that mean that the last 20 to 30 euros of the pensioner's extra money will go, or where will the money be taken from? I do not believe that the government is going to do so, but instead I fear that the end result of this parliamentary term will be that Finland's sovereign debt has risen by several billions, and I hope I am wrong in this prophecy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u219	Madam President! Today, several speakers have criticised Finland's development policy and development aid, most recently in Mr Hakkarainen's speech. Development policy is a very important part of Finland's foreign and security policy. With development cooperation, we seek to strengthen developing countries' own resources in such a way as to reduce dependency on development aid. After all, Finland's development policy aims to eradicate poverty and inequality, while at the same time investing in the stability of societies and thus in the root causes of refugee flows. Development cooperation is by no means a quick win, but requires long-term work and commitment, and the results are long-term and extend over generations. In particular, promoting equality between women and girls in developing countries and training in the profession will help the whole community and will bring social stability on a larger scale, which is extremely important when we want to tackle the root causes of refugee flows. Every additional year in school, according to Plan International, increases the girl’s life-long income by between 10% and 20%, while women invest 90% of their income back in favour of their families, men by 30-40%. And when one wants to break down generation-to-generation poverty, girls play a key role. The Finnish people also agree with the need for development cooperation. 88 per cent of Finns consider development cooperation to be important and 76 per cent of Finns believe that promoting the rights of women and girls is the best way to reduce global inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u220	Mr President! I may have expected too much from this first government amending budget as a new Member of Parliament, especially since I had read its government programme and there was so much positive emphasis on rail transport and investments in the environment-friendly way of moving. However, this amending budget did not provide funding for projects such as high-speed trains. I don't know why they left it there. And it also did not provide funding for, for example, this section of the main route to Tampere, which would therefore be a significant rail link to the airport from here in Southern Finland, the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, and it would also serve the needs of business and could bring quite a lot of growth and income to this region of Southern Finland. I was very surprised to see this really important objective excluded from this funding which, by the way, was allocated to that section of the line. The Pisara track, which is important for the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, has also been completely excluded from this amending budget. They would be very important targets to be achieved because rail transport is environmentally friendly and I would understand that it is also the aim of this current government, and it is also the aim of the coalition to promote environmentally friendly ways of moving. I hope that the government, in its future budgets, will then correct this inadequacy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u221	Mr President! I would like to add to my previous speech that, of course, these investments in the road infrastructure are also important safety factors. That is what Mr Asell spoke very well about. And, of course, it is important that we continue to invest in maintaining the roads in the future. Mr Satonen gave a good account of the concerns about the Government's programme and these practical measures now as to whether Finland will be able to afford it after the actions of this government — I will not go further. But I still wonder that the police budget did not really go up in this amending budget. But the police would have acute needs. And, indeed, when these infrastructure investments are rightly justified by these road safety improvements, it would also be important for more resources to be available for police traffic control, and not just as we have been investing in technical control of speeds in recent years. Of course, it is important for speeds to be monitored too, I am not saying that, but in order to get those most risky drivers out of there, we need the right traffic controllers. We are talking about drunk drivers, drug drivers, or otherwise irresponsible people in traffic. Another area where more police is absolutely needed is the control of heavy traffic. The wheels of the economy are spinning, transportation is increasing. There are also huge shipments of goods through Finland to Northern Norway, for example. These cars are often controlled by European freight forwarders, by transport companies, and they would need real police officers on the road, to be able to worry about, for example, proper equipment in winter conditions, proper equipment in traffic and not to create an unreasonable risk for other road users and not, for example, situations that, in the northernmost part of Finland, have been blocked by the only highway that breaks because a truck has driven into a ditch. An ambulance or a fire truck cannot reach the villages that will then remain on the side of the road to which help should be provided. In other words, I would like to see more input from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u222	Mr President! There has been quite a lot of talk over the last few years about export not being one of the sectors of the future, about the coming of the services sector and how tourism will enter our markets, and a lot of criticism, including the pulp and steel industry, began about ten years ago. However, it has now happened that this pulp is one of the raw materials of our future. Today, Mr Hoskonen gave a distinguished speech, which has been referred to many times today, and I would like to return to that. We do not now have those experts in the industry because of our ten-year speeches that exorcise industry out of Finland, whatever the export industry. In time, the media took it quite seriously, and young people did not seek out in these areas. That is why it is now difficult for us to find welders, machiners, factory workers, papermen, repairmen to work in any such area as the least technical, but these are areas for which we do not need a university degree, for example, and that is why it is good that we are now talking about vocational training and its future, and that is why we now need to invest fast in that vocational school so that we will have a quick workforce in these areas, whether young or adult, in future. We also have paper, pulp and steel factories in South Karelia, and now all we need is all the help we can get from this country so that we can somehow keep those areas of restructuring alive, so that we can have the strength and industry in the future as well as the means of getting jobs in Finland and, at the same time, so that we can participate in environmental projects in such a way that we can benefit ourselves. This is a question that I really hope will continue to be held up in this Chamber, that we will have these industries and that production will remain in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u223	Madam President! Over the course of the days, we have had a very complex and varied debate here on the draft amending budget. What I believe is quite incontrovertible about the amending budget is that its strong investments and strong earnings are particularly linked to transport infrastructure projects. I share the concern of the representatives of the Schoolman and the Car that there will certainly be points through each of our own constituencies to which possible measures would have been needed, but the world will not be completed through a single amending budget either. The merit of the amending budget is also linked, among other things, to the fact that it pays attention to the whole of Finland, to regional policy, also to employment policy, precisely to the employment measures that have been called for on the part of the opposition, for example. A few speeches have been made here, for example, on concerns about the situation of the police. According to the Government Programme, the number of police officers is also being increased, which is understandable pressure, as Mr Autto has also pointed out, will of course be made easier. With regard to the nurseship, I think that Mr Asell has made a good speech about wanting it to be carefully, intelligently and consistently prepared that we will be able to present a prepared proposal which, in a sensible way, will target the work of the carers. I am also extremely pleased that measures and additions to these small pensions are being made. It is also a very logical extension of the withdrawal of guarantee pensions from the previous government, and this government will continue to do so. Last but not least: the investments in vocational education and training are a very strong continuation of the concern that has been voiced about vocational education and training. Increase the number of teachers and, above all, increase the school days of students in vocational education so that they start Monday and end on Friday as classy and smart studies should go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u224	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u225	The first question, the Parliamentary Group of the Finns Party. Congressman Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u226	Mr President! During the past few weeks Finnish citizens have spoken to the Syrian al-Hol camp by Finnish citizens. This is about women and their children who voluntarily travel to Isis' Caliphate. The majority of women are known to have immigrant backgrounds, the rest of them proselytes in Finland. Under current legislation, Finnish citizens cannot be prevented from returning to their country of origin. The question is: Will the government actively promote the return of people in the camp to Finland? Will taxpayers’ money be spent on bringing back the bloodthirsty Islamic cult supporters to Finland? This goes against the Finnish sense of justice. The True Finns demanded a direct answer from the government. Surely the government is not going to support the return of female Isis terrorists to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u227	Mr President! Just as Mr Tavio said, unfortunately, contrary to all the instructions given, the Isis Caliphate has left Finland to support people, contrary to travel recommendations and in situations where Isis has been branded a terrorist organisation. We are now in a situation where the international community has achieved its goal of defeating ISIS, who committed a number of atrocities, and there are now two kinds of consequences. The second is that we obviously have these Isis fighters in prisons in about 7,000 regions and we must in some way support the countries and administrations in the region in order to get a fair trial for these fighters. At the same time, there are at least 10,000 women and children in the camps who have been supporting Isis. Of course, the government will find out what help might be needed in the case of such people. There are many children, small children, whose situation is extremely worrying, and if such people seek
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u229	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u230	Mr President! It is precisely for this that clear measures are now needed from the government as to what will be done if these women terrorists and their children return from there. True Finns feel that children should be taken into care immediately. That's the first thing. You have to ask yourself whether there is really something else to be done here, because yes, these returning terrorists are a clear threat to Finland's security, including the teenage children who are then placed in Finnish school classes. It must now be noted that no European country has actively sought to help its citizens to return from that Al-Hol, and therefore Finland must not actively help these terrorists return. The True Finns suggest that we change the law so that it becomes more difficult to obtain Finnish citizenship and that dual citizenship can be withdrawn if a person joins a terrorist organisation. Above all, the presence of Islamists here in Finland and access to Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u232	Mr President! I have said on many occasions to the public that this is an extremely difficult issue in many respects and that we must be able to combine, as the Minister for the Interior has just said, on the one hand, agreements that bind us and on the other hand, that it is safe to live in Finland. To reconcile these things, a solution is now being sought that will satisfy Finns from a purely moral and ethical point of view, but also from a safety point of view. This is something that probably requires a specific assessment of each person, not that there could be a general solution for all these people. I am also referring in a certain way to children in this respect. The evaluation must be carried out individually when these decisions will then be taken. You also have to remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u233	Madam President! Whether Isis wives are involved in actual crimes or whether their role was mainly to cook food and give birth to these terrorists, they support such an Islamic cult of death. The central goal of this cult is to kill the infidels and oppose the Western way of life. From these points, it is extremely risky to go to Finland to bring adults to Finland who have participated in terrorism. Mr President! I would have asked, when it is known that there are more than 200 Finnish citizens per year who are in distress abroad — many do not even get treatment and struggle for their lives, because there is no money to get to a doctor when there is somehow a failure in the plan there, as is the case at present in Thailand with a person who sends us many mail that he is going to die there when he does not receive treatment — how the human rights of those involved in terrorism are more important than those of these Finns who do not always necessarily get the help they need when they are in distress abroad. Is it more important for you to help these people who:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u234	Mr President! Mr Niikko, you are quite right: the longer a person is involved in jihadistic propaganda, the more it affects his psyche and his behaviour. That is why, as I said just now, this is a very difficult issue where we must be able to combine human rights, international agreements and then the safety of Finnish people living in Finland, and that is what we will do about it. We have no purpose in going out to do things where these people would go, for example, to bring them to Finland on the basis of the law on consular services. The Consul Service Act does not apply to these cases, at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u240	Mr President! In my opinion, the answers of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior were vague. There are very difficult technical issues here, such as how to identify, who are truly Finnish, who are not, what to do with people, if children come here, for example: their observation, child protection and anti-radicalisation activities. Then there are also purely principled choices, and that is why the previous government, in its preparation, clearly assumed that there were no grounds for conducting an exceptional evacuation operation against those who, as adults, travelled to the ranks of the terrorist organisation itself. This is a solution of principle that you should be able to make clear and quickly and then go out and sort out these technical issues. Are you behind this starting point made during the previous government, which was also confirmed by Prime Minister Rinne and, as I recall, by the party leader Haavisto before the European elections, or are you behind a vague line which continues to reflect on the fact that, on a case-by-case basis, there are also adults?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u242	Mr President! It is very important that those in the camps who have committed a great deal of bad deeds should also be held accountable for these acts and as effectively as possible. As the problem is common to several countries, it has been suggested that such an international court should be able to deal with them as if jointly and in accordance with the same principles. In what way has the government promoted or intends to promote the establishment of such a joint separate court?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u243	Mr President! An important question from Mr Kauma. Finland has supported this idea of setting up a hybrid court, which would mean that local courts in Iraq and Syria would form the basis for it but would then receive international support with all these documents and documents and evidence of guilt. In that area, of course, the weakness of the judiciary is, or is usually, a problem. After all, some of these administrations are separate Kurdish governments, which do not have very well established practices in this regard, and then there is the issue of the death penalty, which is probably difficult for the international community as well. But we have supported this idea of creating hybrid courts in that area, and of course these approximately 7,000 fighters who are imprisoned there deserve such a trial there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u244	Madam President! I'd like to ask the Minister in charge: What kind of line have you been thinking about with the Isis kids? Does the right to return apply to all under 18-year-olds, even if young people have committed terrorist acts?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u245	Mr President! Firstly, it has now been said several times in this debate that all these people were guilty of criminal acts. We don't know that. At the moment, no one knows whether or not everyone there has committed criminal acts. That is why I would avoid stigmatizing any person now in this situation before things are settled. But there is a risk that something has happened that requires criminal action, and it is very likely that at least some of these people have committed acts which, if evidence is available, are punishable. From this point of view, this affects everyone in Finland who is subject to criminal law, from 15 years up. People below it are covered by child protection measures — when they are under Finnish law. At the moment, they're not in that camp.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u246	Madam President! We are discussing whether or not some of these Isis wives have been involved in the punishable acts. But does not, in principle, going into the activities of a terrorist organisation go there to support maintenance measures, to prepare food, to be present there, to support terrorism? Isn't that participation in terrorist activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u249	Mr President! I say this in such a way that at least the government has no idea how these people who are now in the camp have participated. I would be involved in action or any other activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u250	Madam President! Yes, Finns have to wonder about the position of leading Finnish legal scientists in public when they claimed that the Finnish Government has a simple obligation to get these Finnish citizens out of there. If this is because of our international obligations, then I wonder whether the other countries that have signed the same agreements do not have the same obligation, because no EU country has applied for their own adults. Secondly, when reference is made to the rule of law: since when does the rule of law mean that adults have no responsibility for the consequences of their own actions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u251	Is Attorney General Henriksson responding?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u252	Mr President! In my opinion, the Prime Minister has already made it very clear that the government is not actively going to take these people away. That is another thing if people come here to Finland, of course we have a pre-trial investigation and so on, and of course then our authorities will act in such a way as to be able to deal with child protection measures, and we should come if these people come here. In my opinion, colleagues have responded here and the Prime Minister has answered this question very clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u253	Mr President! This is an important issue, and it is good that the government spends time in this debate because it wants to dispel the destabilization of Finnish security and to keep the message clear that Finland is considered safe and that there is no will to bring people here who are a danger to this society. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. It is good that the government does not actively use consular services and goes to Finland to pick them up, but will the government then use international organisations, for example, to bring them here? So does the government have any role in helping these people to come to Finland? This is an important point. And secondly, it is worth noting that consular services are also not available to more than 200 Finnish people who are in trouble every year abroad. They too have to cope on their own, but they are, for the most part, well-reputed citizens. In that sense, this would create a particular contradiction in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u254	Mr President! Perhaps first of all, this consular ride, when the consular service may seem to have the impression that all Finns are being helped in every way. It is a very limited way in which embassies can help Finns around the world. Of course, the possibility of returning to Finland against the commitment is offered in some cases where the money is exhausted and otherwise, but it will then be recovered by way of enforcement later on. This is how the systems work. There are no free consular rides, the world doesn't work that way anymore. We would be bankrupt if we started bringing people out of the world like this. But then to this question: the long-term maintenance of these camps is, of course, the task and work of international organisations at the moment, and these international organisations will be helped to do so. Of course, there must be a limit to how long these camps will exist there in northern Syria, and people will probably not live there for their whole lives. There is now an attempt to colonise areas such as Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u255	Mr President! I have listened carefully to the answers of the government, and they rightly emphasise the principles of international law and national law that these issues should be resolved individually. On these many issues, however, it is as if it were a presumtion, assuming that from here, 5,000 kilometres away, minors and parents can be judged for having been active fighters. I do not think there is such objective information about this. Reference was made to the rule of law — it is extremely far from the rule of law if Parliament leaves here to condemn individuals whose background is not sufficiently known for the past few years. With regard to these assumptions that none of these adults have gone against their will, it seems quite likely that this is the case, but it must also be individually investigated, interviewed, investigated, and then these decisions will be made. Let me ask you something.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u256	Mr President! Just as Foreign Minister Haavisto said a moment ago, so we currently have a debate in the European frame of reference as to whether this kind of international hybrid court could be set up in which these crimes caused by ISIS would be investigated, investigated and condemned, and that would not happen directly in the jurisdiction of Finland, but specifically in the jurisdiction of this kind of international court. So we have people who have been to that camp. We are currently preparing — very close to completion — how different authorities work together here in Finland in a way that guarantees the safety of Finnish people living in Finland in this situation but also respects human rights, international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u257	Madam President! It is practically impossible to solve Isis women's crimes at both national and international level, inter alia, because they all wear black robes. Many European countries have banned the use of these masked veils in public places — at least so far Denmark, Belgium, France, Austria and Latvia. It is ridiculous to defend Islamist dress by appealing to freedom of expression or individual freedom. Just as ridiculous would it be to defend the Nordic Resistance’s swastika flag march with the same principles. These black robes are uniforms that proclaim anti-human, violent ideology and are very flagrant in conflict with gender equality. In June 2017, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the prohibition of burka and niqab does not violate human rights. Does the government intend to take steps to ban masked veils by law, or does the government consider that Finland should be a haven of refuge for Islamic extremism and oppression of women?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u258	Mr President! This is an important question. So far in Finland it has been thought that it is up to people to think about how to dress every day when you go to work in the morning — or where you go now. But of course it is something that must be taken seriously if the situation were to be that by wearing such dress, where only eyes can be seen, things that are not desirable in our society can then be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u261	Mr President! Recently in Helsingin Sanomat, an anti-terrorism investigator said wisely, in my opinion, that terrorism seeks to break the principles of the rule of law and is being combated by protecting the principles of the rule of law, human rights. I believe that today has been a good example of how such a passionate attitude towards Islamists or these people who have left for one reason or another in this region has actually weakened our ability to see what is the rule of law, how people are treated so that everyone is equal in the face of justice. I think it has been a good thing that the government has strictly upheld the principles of the rule of law and Western values in the sense that it does not condemn anyone who cannot seem to have committed a crime, and even then they will be treated with respect for human rights. [The President : Question!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u262	Mr President! I referred earlier to the fact that there are now several international organisations in this camp, apparently some 30 different organisations. And of course the people who are there in the camps are totally dependent on food supply, water supply, hygiene, health services for the activities of these organisations. It is, of course, in line with the general human principle that the international community should ensure that these organisations — the UN organisations, the Red Cross — have the conditions for action. There are also medical services from the Nordic countries and a crisis tent like this, where births can then be treated and thus away. This is what I think refers to what Mr Biaudet referred to as the humane attempt to deal with even when people may have been guilty of such things, and the children are innocent of the situation that the parents have led them to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u263	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Rinte for his excellent answers. I hope it is also clear to the opposition that the government is not actively seeking anyone from the camps there. [ Hulls on the right] I am sure we all agree that this issue must be dealt with above the safety point. And like Mrs Zyskowicz, I am also surprised at the statements made by these legal scholars. They have been quite confusing. Under the Constitution or any other act, we are not obliged to actively assist such persons as are currently at the Al-Hol camp.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u264	Mr President! Representative Kärnä, we have our own legal order in Finland, which guides the way the government acts from the perspective of the people here, who belong and who come here, and cooperation between the Nordic countries is an important element, the European framework of reference is an important element. But if this debate, these issues that have now arisen, are being considered in the decision-making sense, it is quite clear that we in Finland will have to make decisions from an individual level to resolve these issues. This also means that we must clearly separate the role of this hall in Finnish society, the role of the government in Finnish society, the role of the authorities in Finnish society. You have to separate the use of jurisdiction, you have to distinguish clearly who are the investigative bodies in this kind of situation. With these principles in mind, it is my belief that the solutions are:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u265	And the last question, Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u269	In relation to this detention in general: Finland’s jurisdiction does not extend to al-Hol camp or any other international camps. Our law does not apply in these camps, but it applies the laws of those regions — if that happens to be the case — where these people are, that is, our provisions on custody do not extend to that area and to those children at all. They're not under our jurisdiction. But as I said, if the Finnish border is crossed or a person comes to the Finnish embassy, then we have clear rules of play, how to do it, and I said that we have prepared, under the leadership of the government, a package of measures, which will be introduced if this kind of situation comes, that is where a person comes within our borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u270	Next question, Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u271	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne, according to an evening-sanos poll, two out of three Finns think that your government programme has been built on unrealistic economic expectations. Government expenditure will be increased even if funding cannot be secured by any other than debt money. Prime Minister Rinne, the Finnish people do not believe in your government's programme, and neither do I. You're handing out money to the Finns that doesn't exist. You already knew this in the run-up to the election. Nevertheless, you gave promises to elderly people, pensioners, students, policemen, teachers and nurses that you cannot keep. You knew this in the government program negotiations. The best economic experts in the country came to you to tell you about this. However, you decided to sell a significant amount of government property, EUR 3 billion in common assets, so that you could get your government to buy up. What will happen to your fortress built on sand when the money runs out and employment does not improve?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u272	Mr President! This frustration of the assembly that you are outside the government, I have heard for quite a long time
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u277	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u278	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne, I am not frustrated. The assembly is not frustrated. We're worried. Two thirds of Finns are concerned about your economic policy and employment policy and whether you can keep the promises you have made. It's about trust. It is a question of whether your word, Prime Minister Rinne, can be trusted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u281	Mr President! I think you remember last term's holiday allowance cut when you talk like that. But from now on, if you look forward to the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u284	Mr President! If we are talking about the last parliamentary term, it is worth mentioning again this economic forecast of the VM two weeks ago and looking at the unemployment rate patterns on page 24 of it. By difficult means, yes, but historically, Finland’s unemployment rate In fact, during the Sipilä government, it was quickly reached close to the Swedish level. If you are really going to finance the 1.2 billion plus 3 billion that you have promised the Finnish people, which is why you doubt whether you will be able to keep this when you do not seem to dare to take the measures that actually work, and they are difficult. I would also like to return to the expenditure side in that, Minister of Finance Lintilä, in the debate on the amending budget, you referred to the fact that, by now, by August, the ministries have been asked to submit proposals for the expenditure which you have put on the one-off list, but which could last for more than three years and which, in some way, would still exist in 2023, without any burden on the spending framework, because that is something that you will no longer be able to carry in the balance of public finances. How is this magic trick possible? Are the teachers of vocational education and training working for the last two years on unpaid leave or unpaid work, since the salary is not in the budget,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u285	Madam President! It is true that this money from the so-called second investment basket is one-off. It's three years' money, and it'll end in that year 22.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u288	Mr President! The Government Programme includes a entry ‘a means of improving employment outside the review’ and good. As far as the government programme is concerned, I proposed a five-point list, which, if implemented, will increase employment: a more even distribution of the cost of family leave, a local agreement in all jobs, a reform of family leave without additional quotas, a bureaucratic examination of access, and a simple inclusive social security system that always encourages study or work rather than idleness. For example, which of these five employment-enhancing measures is the government prepared to take forward? What do you say, Prime Minister, Minister of Labour? Is the increase in employment, on which all the good wishes of the government rest, a genuine objective? Are you as long as a speech and a government program?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u289	Mr President! It is good that the representative raised this record of the government programme that no means are excluded. This is also the response to what Mr Mykkänen has said — I do not know at the moment that some means have been excluded, and I do not believe that it will then be the representative. Even the mute could know it's been ruled out. Preparation is under way and we will consider all possible ways that can lead to an increase in the employment rate. But if they mean that wages are being trampled on, working conditions are being reduced, they are personally excluded for me as ways to change the situation, and I do not think they will affect the fact that employment rates are starting to improve. The family leave system in a way that increases the employment conditions for young women, the development of working careers and wage developments is an important element in this as a whole. The same applies to social security reform. Welcome, Mr opposition, to prepare for social security reform. It's starting in the fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u290	Mr President! Thank you for the question. I believe that the 75% employment rate target is the one that everyone in this Chamber shares, and that is why all ideas are accepted. However, employment growth requires investment — private investment and also public investment — and in less than three weeks this government has proposed future investment in the rails, training and routes of the programme. This already in the short term will increase employment over a number of thousands of man-years, but the most important is the long-term impact which means that, thanks to fast, climate-friendly tracks, the workforce will find employment and ensure the availability of labour for Finnish employers. Furthermore, as the Prime Minister said there, a major programme has already been launched in the Ministry of Labour for increasing participation and skills in society, just as the title of the Government Programme states.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u291	Mr President! The employment situation — is the government really going to improve with these measures, what you have proposed? Nothing. Pensioners are deeply disappointed. The election vows for pensioners were huge. Now that famous centurion of May Day is in his 50s, maybe a few tens in the future. We Finns are often criticized for talking about cutting development aid. But let us say that we believe that development aid is not effective enough today. Indeed, if one thinks that the rights of children and women would improve, then other measures, more effective ones, will be needed and money saved. If these measures were more effective and development aid were reduced, we would have money and we would also be able to think and spend more money on those in need at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u292	Mr President! Development cooperation, as stated in the Government Programme, is part of Finland's foreign and security policy. Development cooperation and development policy are part of Finland's trade policy. Development cooperation is also part of the promotion of Finnish exports. In other words, we are talking about the whole package from which the government programme also starts, that Finland is bigger than it is in the world. Finland has a very well-known, good and respected history in development aid and development cooperation globally. Finland has been an important partner for the UN and also for the EU and globally for all organisations. It is a large part of the Finnish Maabrand, a large part of the global responsibility that Finland bears. Finland has also increased the consideration of development aid. At the same time, Finland requires respect for human rights and respect for international agreements. But it is quite clear that in the future we want to have an impact on development cooperation, and that is why the Government Programme also assumes that these effectiveness criteria will be reformed and developed over the period of the elections, and we will return to this during the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u293	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne, you received the Prime Minister's seat with a very large pension promise. That is a fact, and this pension promise, that is a hundred percent in a pensioner's wallet, is not going to happen. You will not get anywhere with such a stairway model or a periodic model — it is a promise that will not come true, period. [Group: Pension fraud! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u295	Madam President! Mr Häkkänen, I have a very clear answer for you: 1.4 billion have been added. In other words, all the 3 billion that are investment-like will be considered investment-like. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u299	Next question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u300	Mr President! Despite the changes in the size of nurses, we have a large lack of nurses in Finland and, in fact, a lack of nurses. Many Finnish nurses work in Sweden or Norway, and some have moved permanently. Why? Because in neighbouring countries wage levels are better and the workload is lighter. Some nurses also switch to another profession after a while, many because of burnout. Slipband work, minute schedules and detailed reporting and control create stress. Would it be appropriate to learn from President Paasikivi that the beginning of all wisdom is recognition of the facts? We need to get out of this problem by solving a nurse's shortage, and it's gonna cost us a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u301	Mr President! It's a very important question. Thank you, representative, for raising one of the biggest challenges facing Finland's social welfare and health care services, the working conditions we offer in this sector in order to provide services that are important to people. It can already be said that the crisis in care for the elderly, which we have been through,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u304	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u305	Madam Speaker! I would like to thank the Minister for thanking me as a questioner for the fact that this is an important question, but I did not find in your reply what I really wanted, that is to say, what is the government's plan. In other words, apart from changing the size of the carer, we know that in the next few years we will need thousands of new carers. How will we be able to attract them to the sector where wages are low and the workload is too high? If you could find an answer to this question, I too would be pleased and I would thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u306	Mr President! Yes, let's start by thanking you for asking for an answer, and I'm now trying to be more specific. I would therefore like to say at the outset that a minute will not pass until things are opened up any differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u307	Madam President! Now I'm really confused. Minister, you said 'can be improved'. For Christ's sake, first you, the government, have betrayed the businessmen, then you'll betray the people. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u310	Mr President! Let me say at the outset that there is no misconception between Mr Juvonen and others that a binding staffing is to be imposed. [Right: Treatment? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u315	Madam President! This has been a good conversation, and as a former trained nurse, but also as a teacher, I ask that when the government programme says ‘determination of staff’, the question of ‘dimension of skills’ is the question? Can you be trusted that it's a nurse's appointment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u316	President! This was a good question for Mrs Risiko, even because it seems that a dear child has many different names, and could you say that it is also a point of reference to this point of view that brings your question very well? It is intended that a nurse’s appointment should be made. It has been a long way for the country to go when, in fact, we actually look into the mirror and see that we have not always been able to talk about the nursing dimension. Who is the closest employee at the customer's interface, and how is it taken into account in the dimensioning? In this respect, there is room for improvement in the recommendations. Now let us assume that the binding dimension will come into the law, and that will now be the case, Mr Risikko. I believe that this is an important issue. You have been following this with me since 2012.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u317	Mr President! On behalf of the government, I now confirm that 0.7's carer size, i.e. trained carers within the scope of the rating, will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u323	The next question, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, Mr Kalliorinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u324	Mr President! There was widespread talk of underpaid under the elections, and there were terrible examples of Nepalese restaurants and many construction sites where collective agreements and the working time law were flagrantly violated. Sub-wage is a payment that is below the minimum wage, which is made knowingly by the employer. In practice, therefore, this is a breach of the contract and a theft of the employee's earnings. What matters now is that if an employer steals from an employee in the way mentioned above, there will be no sanctions at all, but if an employee steals from an employer, he will be fired and charged with crime. The Government Programme states that new means, such as administrative sanctions, will be explored to address deliberate or grossly negligent underpaid wages. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: how do you intend to move this government programme forward in order to curb unfair competition between companies and the dumping of workers' rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-27-ps-24.u325	Mr President! I thank the representative for his question. I understand it was your last in this Chamber — a good and valuable thing. Indeed, the government has decided to explore new ways of tackling deliberate or grossly negligent underpaid salaries, and this work is being prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. These sanctions mentioned in the Government Programme are one of the tools for tackling underpaid pay. In practice, there are often other offences, including trafficking in human beings, which are often associated with underpaid work discrimination, particularly in the case of workers with foreign background. In 2017, seven people and one person for trafficking in human beings were convicted of this type of work discrimination, but the problem is that these are very rarely known to the police. It is not just workers who suffer from this, including those companies that follow the rules, and small companies cannot compete in a sector where other people are dumping wages.
