ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. In today's first plenary session, the matter was put on the table at this plenary session. Now the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u2	Madam President! Today's debate has already highlighted the fact that the law on the introduction of light-duty vehicles was adopted in Parliament last winter with a unanimous approach and therefore very broad political support. The purpose of these light cars is to improve the road safety and accessibility of young people, especially where there is no public transport, in practice in the majority of Finland. Lightweight cars would be safer in use than mopeds or mopeds, and according to the feedback received by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, there is a lot of demand for these light cars. There is clearly a need. Today, in the Committee on Transport and Communications, we heard experts on the situation of light-duty vehicles, and today the chairman of the committee, Mr Kymäläinen, clearly explained what the situation is. If we do not postpone the entry into force of the light-duty car laws, the Commission may initiate a formal infringement procedure on the basis of an infringement of EU law. In that situation, the damage to citizens and businesses could be greater if our laws were subsequently repealed as a result of the infringement procedure. That is why we need this transfer now. In this legislative Parliament, are we not also obedient to the EU legislation that we are committed to? Yes, we are, and that is why we are now postponing this entry into force of the law and we are waiting — quite rightly, as has been said here — for swift action to be taken in order to make light cars available as soon as possible. But even in this case, it is not worth kicking against the radar so that, when the message is clear from the EU, we will now take the time but quickly to get things right so that we can get the light cars in place. From the citizens' point of view, it is extremely regrettable and truly regrettable that the entry into force of the law is now postponed. This isn't supposed to happen. That is why we must act without delay, and it is excellent that the Minister for Transport has taken action quickly, as he has done. Let us give this work full support. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that, although he was unable to attend today for a perfectly understandable reason, he sent a very broad overview to Parliament yesterday by e-mail. This issue must now be mobilised very quickly. I would like to say that the introduction of light-duty vehicles is also fully in line with the clear and clear policy of regional neutrality of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u5	Mr President! Light-duty cars have had extensive political support during the last period when this debate was held in this Chamber and things were taken forward, and I believe that light-duty cars still have broad political support so that this law can be passed on to Finland. It is a great pity that we are in this situation that we now have to postpone the entry into force of the law, but this is an EU issue. Thank you very much, Mr Harakka and Mrs Tuppurainen, for coming here on such an important matter. There was a wish in this Chamber this afternoon that there would be ministers here, and now there will be ministers here, if Mr Heinonen sees it too. Minister Harakka is a substitute for Minister Marin, who can also take matters forward and listen to wishes. Indeed, this government's proposal is based on the European Commission's comments and complaints made to it, which have gone to the European Commission in Finland and which risk that Finland may incur costs and disadvantages from initiating infringement proceedings against Finland. It is therefore important that we now have this debate and also try to find solutions to how the Light Car Act will also be implemented in Finland. The objective of transferring the entry into force, that is to say, the aim of this government's proposal, is to find out whether it would be possible to amend the laws on light-duty vehicles in such a way as to comply with European Union law. I personally believe and hope that it will be possible to bring them into line with the Commission's approval. I personally hope that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, too, will be able to start that work right after that, so that this issue can be brought forward. Now the only thing in this proposal is to have the entry into force postponed by one year. This is necessary in my opinion, and I hope that this will also be dealt with quickly, and I hope that this will not go any further than 1 November. We don't have a problem. This government proposal will also allow for the identification of solutions in cooperation with the Commission and the various stakeholders, and I hope and believe that this dialogue will take place, or has already taken place, but that dialogue will continue. I say now that the centre does want to, and I too want to do so, to have a light-duty vehicle legislation in Finland that the EU Commission can also adopt, and I hope and believe that the officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications will look for solutions to achieve this. The Centre also wants to be involved in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u6	Madam President! So we now have a project which has been very much discussed during the last parliamentary term, which has gained a clear majority of support in this Chamber. More than 160 MPs felt that light car legislation was a welcome proposal — including myself. This was well dealt with in the Committee on Transport and Communications, a rather wide-ranging consultation on this light-duty vehicle legislation overall. It was also accompanied by Mrs Torniainen, who spoke earlier. Now we are in a position to postpone the entry into force of the law on 1 November 2019 by one year, because the Commission has pointed us out, among other things, that the directive on light-duty vehicles does not comply with the EU Driving Licences Directive. On this point, it is worth noting why we are in a hurry on this issue: if the laws adopted during the last parliamentary term come into force, the possibilities of claims for damages to Finland may be realised. I doubt that anyone in this Chamber will hope for it. Now that, hopefully very quickly, these proposals for amendments will be dealt with by the majority with the European Commission and stakeholders, I really hope that a solution will be found – we will not be in a situation where the government will later have to abolish the law on light cars. I don't think that's what a lot of people in this room are hoping for either. A few words about environmental aspects that are very topical. Of course, they are also relevant to this legislation. With regard to the estimates that some young people will be diverted from public transport through the reform, I would like to remind you that there is certainly no chance of going to studies and hobbies in rural towns and rural areas in a smooth way, if at all, today, with public transport. From the climate point of view, we must also take into account the fact that some mopeds and mopeds will be replaced by light cars, which in itself is also better for the environment. In addition, the improvement of young people's independent mobility will in practice reduce parents' access to studies, hobbies and friends. In short, I hope that this light-duty vehicle legislation will be brought forward after the transitional period of this year, which is now planned, because, in the view that I have, a clear majority in this House is in favour of this issue itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u7	Madam President! Indeed, it is a pity that the law on these so-called light-duty vehicles, which was passed by a large majority in the previous Parliament, has now suddenly come face to face with such a headwind on the part of the EU. And, Mr President, it is good that both Mr Tuppurainen and Mr Harakka are here to answer, because I, too, have questions for both of them on this subject which they may be able to answer as well-known ministers. Indeed, Mr President, the main argument behind this law has been the fact that when young people have a need to move and this need for movement has been taken care of by these so-called mopeds, which may indeed have been transported by young people with a tractor card or a moped card, it has in practice been found that they are extremely unsafe on the road. And the safety of young people is certainly the first thing in this Chamber that we all want to take care of. This is precisely why we wanted to create this category of light-duty vehicles, which these young people — and perhaps not also the elderly, who no longer feel natural and safe to use at the speed of the road — could safely be used in that traffic. These vehicles would be safe, not only for their drivers but also for other traffic. It is, of course, a particular pity that this suspicion has now come from the EU and that the government is now going to postpone or propose to postpone this entry into force of the legislation. I do not think that this is quite a story, at least in the form that has been presented. Mr President! It is quite clear that driving is an essential part of Finnish everyday life. When I had spent my youth in that northern part of the country near the Swedish border, Swedish young people had access to these — at least we called them EPA tractors back then — light cars in their own movement. For young people, it must have been primarily a hobby and business where you could even cross the border. In fact, I do not know whether Swedish young people were wrong to come to Finland with these vehicles without a driving licence. I would like to ask Mr Tuppurainen how it can be that in Sweden this matter has been dealt with for some time now, but in Finland we would not be able to fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u10	Madam President! In fact, there has been an exceptionally large amount of political support for light cars, the culmination of which was the adoption of a bill in Parliament last winter, almost unanimously. The European Commission regrets, however, that light-duty cars are not subject to the definition of the agricultural and forestry tractor in the Driving Licence Directive but to the definition of a motor vehicle. In such cases, the requirements for the AM category and the minimum age of 15 years cannot be laid down nationally. So there was gravel in the wheel of light cars. We are in a situation where, within a one-year transitional period, we should consider ways of integrating legislation into EU legal frameworks. I believe that this is a question that can be resolved and common sense prevails. The starting point for light cars is a very worthwhile idea. Lightweight cars are a safer alternative to mopeds. In mopeds, the structure, the durability of the bodywork and the brake performance are lower than in passenger cars and therefore also in light cars. Thus, light cars are passenger cars with a maximum speed of 60 km/h. Similarly, for reasons of road safety, the maximum permissible mass would be 1500 kg, so the possibility of conversion does not apply, for example, to so-called SUVs. In practice, the conversion into a light car would take place by installing a speed limiter in the car, and accordingly a light car could always be converted back into a passenger car. That's very sensible and very convenient. The mopeds serve the same purpose for both young and old, but they are perceived as unsafe, and that is unfortunately what they are — eggs that are very fragile. In addition, mopeds have been a large and expensive investment in temporary mobility. Lightweight cars would be much more versatile in their convenience. In 2010, there were about 4,300 mopeds in traffic use, while in 2017 the corresponding figure was 8,100. So in less than ten years the number of mopeds has doubled. It has also meant that there will be more and more people on the road with totally non-existent body armor. It is therefore extremely regrettable and contrary to all reasonableness that these indisputable security aspects have come across a bureaucratic counterwind. Once again, the facts need to be forged for those who do not understand the issue with regard to the EU: when the entry into force of the light-duty car laws is postponed, as now seems to be the case, proposals for amendments to the laws should be prepared immediately in close cooperation with stakeholders and the EU Commission. I believe that even more complex issues have been resolved. Light-duty cars and legislation permitting them are a safety issue, and there must be ability and will to solve it. Mr President! Uncertainty about the entry into force of the light-duty car laws is unfortunate and embarrassing for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u11	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here on this proposal, and I personally agree that it is rare for a proposal to be adopted in Parliament with the same broad consensus as that on which this light-duty vehicle law was adopted last season. I further interpret that a strong majority of this house continues to support this proposal and wants a law to be passed in Finland to make safer light cars available to our young people. In the regions in particular, there is a great need to improve access for young people, because there is no functioning public transport. I believe that all of us, or at least almost all of us in this Chamber, share this assessment as well. There's a big need for the law anyway. I consider the starting points of the Light Trucks Act to be good and highly supported. Well, now that the Commission has made a comment to Finland on this legislation, I would like to stress that it is worth maintaining restraint at this point and there is no reason to rush or run in every direction. In fact, this comment is largely the same as what Finland received a year ago when this legislation was being prepared. It may therefore be said that this has not come as a big surprise either to the ministry or to this house. I would also like to say that, in this autumn, when speeches have also been made about the fact that this law cannot be put into effect, I do not see it that way. This proposal to move forward with the adoption of this law, during which time we would seek solutions to the concerns raised by the Commission, seems to me to be justified, and we must give a strong political signal and support that the ministry and the Minister for Transport must seek solutions that will bring light-duty vehicle legislation into force and then bring it to Parliament. The Press Release of the Ministry of Transport and Communications states: ‘The Commission’s observations do not provide for the entry into force of the law but may not be complied with as ‘Voice to lead’ is not supported in this This is not the first time that the Commission has had a debate with a Member State. It is now important to make only changes on a reasonable timetable and put the law into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u12	Mr President! Mr Marttinen has just said that the points raised in the Commission's letter to Finland were already known when this law was adopted. In other words, when this law was enacted, it was already known that it was incompatible with EU law. Even then, we should have pushed the stop button and left the light-duty car law out of place. But not only because this law is in conflict with EU law in many respects — the points are clearly stated in the explanatory statement of this Government’s proposal — I do not think that the light car law should have been introduced in the first place. The basic thing that should not have been regulated is road safety. It has already been stated that the name ‘light - car law’ is, in fact, misleading. It would be more accurate to talk about the slow car driver, because this is about ordinary cars, whose speed has only been slowed down. They're no lighter than that. Lighter is only the driving lessons, which are called. In accordance with the light-duty car law, you need to visit in order to obtain a driving licence for these so-called. light cars. In the so-called light cars are justified by the safety of young people; only the safety of the driver of the car has been considered, not by those who are on board the car and not by other road users — and the safety of the driver of the car from a very narrow point of view. Indeed, the effect on other road users has been completely ignored, but also what the lightness of driving instruction will affect the safety of all road users, passengers in the car and also the driver of the car. I myself have received engineering training at the University of Technology in Otaniemi, but even school physics tells me that the motion energy of the song and also of the car is proportional to its mass and also to the square of speed. I have noticed that for many people who do not have scientific or technical training, this is a difficult matter to understand. It is not clear to humans from intuition that when speed increases, the braking distance increases even more, because the braking distance is proportional to the motion energy. For example, if the vehicle speed increases from 45 to 60 km/h, the braking distance increases by almost 80 percent. Another example of this phenomenon is that if two cars of the same kind, on the same road, in the same weather, run off to brake, one at a speed of 100, the other at a speed of 80, then at the point where the car that left eight to brake has already stopped, the one that left 100 to brake is still 60. And now that the speed increase from 45 to 60 increases the motor vehicle's motion energy by almost 80 percent, then there is the fact that compared to the mopeds these are. light cars can be up to three times the weight. This means that the motion energy that determines the damage caused by collisions is more than five times that. Those who have justified these so-called light cars for car driver safety, the argument is based on the fact that these modern, real cars have better brakes, better safety systems and so on. All these new technical refinements can only partially compensate for the risk of increasing commercial energy. The fact that as the allowed speed increases, the braking distance increases even more — it means more collisions with the same attention. Increased motion energy means greater damage with the same driving skills. I really think that the idea that normal cars are given to younger people than those who can obtain a normal driving licence and on the basis of a much lighter driving instruction is, in principle, irresponsible. In addition to these considerations, the Commission has stated in its letter that these so-called light-duty cars or the driving licence with which the so-called Under the light car law, a normal car with this speed limiter could be allowed to drive, so these so-called. light-duty vehicles do not comply with the provisions of the categories of vehicles that are covered by EU driving licence legislation, that the type of contraption may be carried with this type of driving licence. In addition, the Commission draws attention to an issue which I do not remember at all being dealt with during the last parliamentary term. The law on light cars was discussed, i.e. that there may also be many passengers in the ordinary car. We all know that every year there are tragic traffic accidents in Finland, including ordinary cars with a normal driver's licence, which he received at a young age, and there are young people on board. If this is so-called The Light Car Act would enter into force, which would increase the likelihood of this type of tragic accident on Finland's roads. That is why I believe that this whole light-duty vehicle law could have been repealed, but the second most sensible solution is to postpone its entry into force in the manner envisaged by the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u13	Madam President! Light-duty car, moped and driver’s license matters for young people have been part of my family’s daily life for the past five years. I own a moped myself, where my older daughter drove about two years before she received a special license for a car when she was 17. Right now, my younger 15-year-old daughter is driving the same moped. From experience, the moped has brought a great deal of substance to our young people's lives. It has made it possible for young people to go to hobbies, and being involved in transport has taught them responsibility. There's already about 30,000 miles in our family's moped truck. However, with my family’s experience in mopeds, I can imagine how unsafe and dangerous a moped is in the event of an accident. Madam President! Rural mopeds and possible light cars are also driven among other traffic in 100 and 80 km/h speed zones. The vast majority of the kilometres of our family's moped car have accumulated during the Juva-Mikkeli route, which has speed limits of 100 and 80 km. Of course, in terms of safety, a light car is more safe in construction than a moped, but even with a speed-limited light car, there is no danger outside the agglomeration. Mr President! I would like to see discussions on light cars transferred to driving licences. I believe that the minimum age for driving licences B could be reduced to 17 years of age for the EU and that it would be possible to start discussing driving licences for B licences for 16-year-olds. What I have just said would significantly reduce the need for light cars and, over time, reduce the fleets of mopeds. Now, a lot of 17-year-olds are driving safely with a B card and a normal passenger car. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u14	Mr President! As has been said here in a number of speeches, it really makes sense to allow light cars. This is about improving road safety. Current mopeds are a safety risk and they are also expensive. In less populated areas, the mobility of young people needs to be organised more securely and cost-effectively. Here's the answer to the light cars. Light cars really make sense, like a representative. Kivisaari well said in his speech. I think it is absolutely essential that a solution is found to allow light cars in Finland and to introduce the whole of the light-duty vehicle legislation. As Mr Marttinen said, the Ministry has also stated that the Commission's comment may lead to an infringement action but does not, as such, prevent the law from coming into force — that is to say, it can actually lead to an infringement action, it certainly does not. The Commission has not found that infringement proceedings are being initiated. If the necessary changes can be made despite the entry into force, then the entry into force of the law will not be a problem. I would like to raise the question at all as to whether we are too frightened in Finland by the Commission's comments of this kind. It must also be borne in mind that the Commission is not even the body in the EU that ultimately determines what is in line with EU law and what is not. [MikkoSavolan intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u15	Madam President! I personally understand that this debate on the postponement of the light-duty car law is justified because, as a Member of the European Union, we should, of course, be content with the legal system of the European Union and therefore move it forward in such a way as to make it legal and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u26	Let us now give the Ministers the answers. Minister Tuppurainen, five minutes, then the Magpie.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u27	Madam President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate here today, for the speeches made earlier today in this sitting. Together with Mr Harakka, we have listened to all these speeches and raised questions, and we will come back to those we do not answer right now. Sanna Marin, the Minister for Transport and Communications responsible for this matter, is, as we know, currently on a mission together with the President of the Republic and is therefore prevented from attending this sitting, so as a European minister on behalf of the Government, I am now responding to some of the concerns and wishes expressed here. This proposal is important for road safety, it is important for the safety of our young people, and it should be stressed that we in Parliament have supported this objective very widely. It is now a question of how we can best achieve this will state within the framework of EU law, which, however, binds us. Why do we have to take this timeout? Well, the European Commission considers that light cars are not eligible for the definition of agricultural or forestry tractors in the Driving Licence Directive, but for the definition of motor vehicle. That's what this is all about. They therefore fall within the scope of the Driving Licences Directive and cannot therefore be subject to a national minimum age requirement for the category of AM driving licences and 15 years for their transport. The entry into force of the current law is 1. 1 November 2019. So by the beginning of November it will not be possible to determine whether it would be possible to amend the legislation on light-duty vehicles in such a way as to comply with European Union law, or to prepare and deal with any proposed amendments to the law on light-duty vehicles and their use. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is best to postpone the entry into force of the laws. We have to move them. And according to the Attorney General's statement, it is possible to postpone the entry into force of the laws in EU legislation in order to find a solution. And when we come back to the time before, it was considered — even then — that the application of the Driving Licences Directive was open to interpretation, since tractors have previously been approved as vehicles whose primary purpose can be considered to be the carriage of passengers or goods. The Commission's position was already known at the drafting stage, but informal discussions assumed that the Commission would not take action if it were not necessary. And now a number of complaints have been made to the Commission about the laws, to which the Commission must react if the laws come into force. That is what this is all about, which increases the risk of initiating infringement proceedings. If the entry into force of the light car laws is postponed, proposals for amendments to the laws will be prepared in close cooperation with the various stakeholders and the EU Commission. It is now intended to examine as soon as possible whether a solution under the Driving Licences Directive can be found — to the satisfaction of the Commission. Discussions with the Commission have been continued at the level of officials and Commission officials have indicated that they are prepared to discuss Finland's possible amendments, if any. So there is a dialogue and we are active in this. It will certainly also clarify whether the Swedish model is somehow applicable in such a way that the desired objectives are met. And all the other options in this report, President-in-Office, we will certainly go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u28	And Minister Harakka, three minutes. You can like your place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u29	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this debate. I myself have then voted in favour of this law in the previous Parliament, as was the case with a large majority, but it was already known at the time and when the government took a decision almost a year ago at the Council of State, that the EU Commission had already made a remark, and it was known, as the government has suggested, that such a risk exists. As sometimes happens with risks, so now it has become reality. The Chancellor of Justice has recommended that legislation contrary to EU law should not be sought. This is quite in line with the decisions made by the previous government. For example, we remember the sweet tax, which was abolished because it involved complaints. Its fiscal importance was great, we talked about the size of EUR 100 million, but still with regard to the risk that we would have been subject to compensation procedures and, to some extent understandably, with regard to political responsibility, it was considered necessary to give it up. On the contrary, the previous government has also acted, for example, when the EU Commission pointed out energy certificates, although most Finns experienced, I dare say that the energy certificate for garages is not in any way necessary. The previous government then decided to react to this remark from the EU Commission and passed such a law. So this line of caution is followed, whether in the government or in the opposition. There is not much to add to Mr Tuppurainen's report. From a human point of view, as has already been much called for here, the reports, the feelings, the experience of what kind of needs this light-duty vehicle has been thought necessary, it is certainly a shame for those young people — some of them — who have already completed this category of AM121 card, that it is not now suitable for light-duty cars by this knowledge. In any event, such a card entitles the carriage of light quadricycles, such as mopeds and tractors of category T3, so that it may not be just an expense item. Of course, a passenger car intended to be converted into a light car in advance can be used as a passenger car, but if there is no need for a passenger car and it is to be sold, then of course the potential damage will be
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u30	Madam President! It is really great that there is a European Minister Tuppurainen in this debate, and his report on this situation just now seems to me to be a very good illustration of the situation. It is also great that the Minister for Labour, Minister Harakka, who is deputising for the Minister for Transport, is here and we have also heard your views on this matter. If we take this history quickly, this has now fallen into the hands of this government through the EU, on the basis of the decisions taken in the last period, insofar as we must try to ensure that the last 176 representatives of Parliament have the will of national light legislation in accordance with our will. However, the EU's comments must be answered, and it is therefore responsible that the Ministry should be able to prepare a proposal to respond to these EU comments. Well, what has changed with regard to the decision of that year is the Ombudsman's assessment of whether this law can now, at the beginning of November, be implemented. In practice, then, we have three options: the fact that the law will come into force on 1 November 19, which is the most irresponsible of all, insofar as it involves the greatest risk that this legislative amendment will not succeed and we will have to withdraw it. This would also be the worst option for consumers. There is a risk that we would be subject to infringement proceedings or, for example, could we require officials to be subject to government regulations and the provision of Traficom against the advice of the Ombudsman. Then, of course, we have an alternative to completely abolishing this law. And we have chosen in the government this easiest and possible way of getting national legislation, i.e. postponing this entry into force of the law, so that we have time to respond to these issues. The fact that there has been opposition here to this postponement of the year is sad because I also feel, on the basis of today's discussions, that the state of will is quite unanimous. It is therefore appropriate to respond to the willingness of young people to ensure, in the case of these light-duty vehicles, that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u31	Madam President! After a lively debate, I decided to take part in this debate on light cars myself. I think this light car is a good thing. It should be promoted as quickly as possible, and I believe that we should adopt it as decided in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u36	Mr President! The debate has now gone so far as to raise a few perhaps unpopulist aspects of this issue. [Department :Oh! ] To take a stand on this substance: there has been a lot of talk here about the negative or perceived features of mopeds, but now we are not banning mopeds, but we are creating a new category of vehicles, a light-duty vehicle that is, admittedly, more speed-limited. Of course it is lighter, it has a certain weight limit, but basically it is the speed limit. And it is also quite true that this safety, which is achieved here, applies more to persons travelling within its light-duty vehicle than to those who are excluded from it. It should be noted that mopeds also have ABS brakes and other safety systems in modern times. So technically, all the facts that have been presented in the debate are not quite true. But so much for the substance. I personally do not like to be humbled in front of the EU either, and it is awfully nice that the Coalition Party has also gone on the lines of the Finns, which is why I did not hear so much of the people of the United States last season calling for an end to the subservience in front of the EU, but this is also the beginning. [Jukka Kopra’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u37	Madam President! It is nothing more than that this is the revenge of the moped lobby in the corridors of Brussels. When Finland started to make this legislation, sales statistics began to go down, and at the same time lobbyists also woke up and have influenced the EU Commission to the point that we also received such a note. The Minister for European Affairs gave good reasons for what has happened here. This opened up the problem that the EU Commission has now reached us on this issue. There is no doubt that the majority of these light cars are not supported here — that is quite clear. I personally support those and the arguments that have been mentioned on several occasions, i.e. safety factors, which are in a way also cost factors in this matter — safety factors for the driver inside the car, for pedestrians as well as for the Finnish transport and mobility in general, which we naturally want to allow our young people here. Finland is a country of long distances, and I too know how important it is to move ten kilometres from the centre of Ähtär. When I was young, I was able to move on a moped myself, but if I was thinking about my own children, who at some point come to the age of going by motor vehicles to their hobbies and school, then I would rather have a lighter car like this for them, i.e. a light car, than a tin case like that, which is very unsafe, i.e. a moped. In my opinion, there has been a good reflection in this debate on the fact that, first of all, we must now have those discussions with the European Commission and try to get this law into force as quickly as possible, so that we can also have light cars in our hands, as planned. In that respect, this time-out must now be taken. But if this does not blow the wind and perhaps even the other way around — I think it came from the people of Peru, whether Mrs Turtiainen or who raised it — we could calculate the age of driving licences in this country, and if we did, we would also have earlier conditions to go to receive both proper training, a driving licence and then the conditions to improve mobility for young people. Certainly many of us who grew up on land have been able to try motor vehicles at a very young age and drive them at a young age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u40	Mr President! Three points. For one thing, would it make sense to give the so - called. the law on light cars will enter into force, although it is obvious that it is incompatible with EU law. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! It is quite clear that this matter would go to the European Court of Justice, and the contradiction of this law with EU law is so clear that the outcome is also quite clear. Finland would have to withdraw this law afterwards. Point two: What this would mean for families who have planned what is known as “the Bible. ” Getting a light car? That would mean that they would feel cheated. They would have gotten a car that might not be useful at all. And even if it were useful, I would draw attention to the Commission’s remark in the explanatory statement of the government’s proposal that the manufacturer of the original vehicle would no longer be responsible from the moment the vehicle was converted into a light-duty vehicle — not even if it was returned to its original state. In other words, families would have cars that have been converted into light cars and then returned to normal cars, but the car manufacturer would no longer be responsible for the car as the car manufacturer normally is. In other words, if we were to allow this light-duty vehicle law to come into force now, this would be putting people in a really bad situation in terms of consumer protection. And on road safety: I see that many of the speeches that have been made here have not at all understood the aspects of road safety raised in the Commission's letter, which has been referred to in the government's proposal, and which I myself mentioned in my speech. However, I will not repeat them, but I will quote some information from the Transport Safety website. Traffic safety indicates that the risk of young men dying in traffic as a passenger car driver is higher than for other age groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u45	Madam President! Mr Hassi has made some interesting contributions here, and I think that, on the one hand, the fundamental consideration here was in relation to this security, to which I shall return shortly, but in particular in relation to this European Court of Justice. So, how about excluding the fact that if the law comes into force, then after the entry into force, we go on to make the necessary amendments to the law in order to comply with this EU legislation? It would then avoid that European Court of Justice. These vehicles have now been acquired by families, taking into account the fact that legislation is now coming into force at the beginning of next month. This has been widely accepted by Parliament, and the President of the Republic has already confirmed the law. How, then, would it be worse to allow the law to come into force and to allow young people to get on the road safely this winter? Those young people who, for example, are actually on the highways, whose families have already wanted to invest in safety by acquiring these light cars, would be able to use them and then make the changes where it is quite obvious that the government is going to present them in any event when it now proposes to postpone the implementation of this legislation by one year. One year is lost in the important road safety work that has been sought in this way. And indeed it is quite clear that the safety of mopeds, for example, in these tests by the Euro NCAP, has proved to be absolutely nonexistent, while all these light-duty cars will have to meet the criteria for passenger cars. And when these light cars for young people would be new, they would certainly be safer than these mopeds are. And, of course, Mr Hassi had interesting points of view on the theory of physics. I would recall that these were already taught in the upper secondary schools, so there is no need to resort to the physics of high school.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u50	Madam President! We have had a good debate on this government proposal, and I personally hope that this can now move forward as it is. What is the cause of this unfortunate situation, the one-year transition period? This is because of the letter from the EU Commission and the comment that has come and, in fact, when reference has already been made to that letter from the EU Commission, it is available on the website of the MinTC, although it is a copy, and it is in English there, i.e. it is in a very understandable form and readable. Then reference has been made to Sweden to why there is no legislation similar to that of Sweden on light cars. In Sweden, they are very different cars, they are tractors in practice, they are allowed to drive up to 30 kilometres per hour, they are not allowed to have a back seat, they are allowed up to 1 to 2 people in front of the driver. It is a very different solution, there are many other solutions that are different than in Finland. We have tried to make a Finnish version of this, and now we have received a comment from the Commission about it and we may be subject to sanctions, and it is important that we now have the discussions with the Commission on how to get the Finnish model to this in Finland. The government is certainly not taking this issue under consideration, but once we get this thing moving forward, we will get to the next stage and put the officials of the MinTC to work and find solutions. The Centre also wants to be, because we are the Government Party, together with all the parties, in search of those solutions in order to achieve this goal. A light car is also a climate action in practice, because public transport, for example, does not work anywhere in Finland. Here in the capital region, public transport works, but it does not have to go very far to my own province, so public transport does not work there. Light cars also allow young people access to hobbies, which is a good thing, and a light car can also be a solution for elderly people in the future when it can then be converted back into a family car. I personally believe that it is also the future. So we are looking for solutions, not using it all year, which is now, but finding them together in a faster time frame.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u51	Madam President! Just as Mrs Torniainen said in her excellent speech: this issue must be taken through with a full sense of common ground, so that the European Union's decision-making system also gives us the blessing that is obviously needed for this. At this stage, I would like to thank the worthy ministers for having, despite their very busy schedules, been able to get here and come. It is great that Mr Tuppurainen gave an excellent analytical speech and explained what this is all about. It is an important increase in Parliament's authority and it is of great value to us to have direct information directly from the EU. There is one more thing that has not been said and that is the general mood: how do we experience the European Union in this matter or in any other matter? Do we feel that it is a terrible oasis of bureaucracy that defuses decisions or regulations that make no sense? It would now be a place for us to do this in style — to get this thing over with as quickly as possible and to make our young people safe on the roads. You have to remember that those cars, those light cars, Volkswagen Golfs, and so on, they're extremely good cars. For example, the lighting in them today is absolutely brilliant. For example, a five - year - old Golf has such good lights today that there is no 10 percent light in mopeds. Visibility is excellent, safety is good, it is warm in winter and, above all, it is extremely safe for the driver. Measured by all instruments, it's safe. I would like us in Parliament to have so much common spirit and reason that we can get this thing through with a reasonable, fast timetable. And if it were to happen now that — the European Commission has apparently been given relatively good feeds on something, so to speak, to gargle it a bit, as the deputies say — then this could be done by dropping the driving licence age on it for 17 years. Someone will say this after I have spoken that these young people are driving wildly. We've all been young once. We used to ride our moped a little bit, how do I put it, even speeds that might not have been quite legal. But 99.9% of our young people are certainly responsible. There are always a few exceptions, which are just spoken of and labelled irresponsible by the whole group of young people. Our young people are good, responsible young people who want to build a sensible Finland. That message from us must leave this house, that we trust them and give them the opportunity to move safely. That is the least we can do for them in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u52	Mr President! Both during this period and during the previous period, I have had a lot of time in the large committee to deal with these various proposals from the European Union. As everyone here knows, I am a strong supporter of the European Union and, in most cases, I think it makes sense to put forward the proposals that come out of it, but I must say now that this Commission statement does not make any sense. And all the arguments here: there is only one reasonable argument here — and it is in the government’s proposal — and that is that the market is being distorted, as it were, because the market opportunities for mopeds are being weakened when they are European manufacturers, that is to say, the Commission’s proposal does not mean anything more than that the position of manufacturers and those who sell mopeds is not being undermined. This has nothing to do with road safety. This has touched the locality from which I come, Sastamala, very much, because we had the unfortunate accident where a drunk driver drove two 17-year-old mopeds over. It may be that a normal car would not have helped in that crash, but it has been a truly shocking experience. And it hasn't stopped. There are still mopeds driving, because there are many people in such a rural community who live so far from the city centre — and when public transport does not work — that young people practically have no choice but to get started with this famous moped. And when it is said here that some young men may not be able to control that traffic, at least if you have friends involved, that is probably true and that is their problem, but it does apply to those driving a moped in the same way as those driving a light-duty car.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u55	Mr President! This debate has also raised an important issue regarding the conditions for obtaining a driving licence. After all, in 2018 we reduced the conditions for obtaining a B licence with an exemption, and since then some 10,000 of them have been issued. There is certainly a need to look at this issue. This debate has made it very clear that this time, too, we are almost in agreement that this law on light cars must be put into effect as soon as possible so that it is acceptable to the EU Commission. Road safety has also been raised as an important issue. Now, in my opinion, we in the Government Programme have good guidelines for a significant improvement in road safety, and, for example, in the renovation of the corridors, the question is precisely that we are also strengthening safety, and when you drive those light cars, it is safer when the roads are in order. In 2010 we had some 4,300 mopeds in traffic, when after seven years the number was almost doubled: in 2017, we had already 8100 mopeds in use. As we have heard well in this debate and have been well described, it is clear that such a light-duty car is much safer than such a moped. When the need is so clear, this light-duty vehicle law must be taken forward quickly, and one can say that we must do everything in our power to bring this law into force and light-duty cars into that traffic, because it is in the interests of our young people and of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u56	Madam President! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! The Coalition Party strongly supports making light cars available to our young people, and so does the Finnish people. This presentation has had strong support from Finns, and I do not think there is any reason to delay this year. If corrections were to be made, it would have been possible to make them considerably faster and to bring this law into force this year. Unfortunately, when I listen to this debate, it seems that the government does not really know what the government wants here. The government's ranks have become very critical of the issue of light cars, and it seems that anything can happen here. Will light cars for Finnish young people no longer be available during this government, where the greens seem to be waving the baton, remain to be seen. Ladies and gentlemen of the center! Yes, young people and families in rural areas are now waiting for you to be here for them and for them to be safe. [Parliament : We are! ] Mr President! I would like to thank the ministers, Mrs Tuppurainen and Mrs Haraka for being here and for taking the floor on this matter. Personally, I think it is important for ministers to take part in these discussions, and although, as Minister of Transport, Mr Marin has a good reason today to be out of this debate and that previous debate, I wonder why this legislation was put on this day when the government had the information that Mr Marin was not taking part. Now it is actually happening that the Minister of Transport is not taking part in this public debate in any way when the information indicates that tomorrow this is going through the Committee on Transport and Communications. In other words, we are having a referral debate today and we have already heard a few experts today, and there is no more time for additional experts. Tomorrow this will be pushed through by a government proposal from the committee, and it seems that Minister Marin is not taking part in this public debate. This is the criticism we have in connection with this debate. Mr President! Property protection is guaranteed by the Constitution for Finns. When I looked at the statements made in this second round, the time came to stop, for example, the one-Pro operator with Lite-On, Meta System, Auto-Amics and subcontractors, telling me that they have trusted that the vast majority of Parliament and the President's reinforcement of the law have guaranteed that they have already invested nearly EUR 3 million in this lightweight car package. They say in their own statement that by the spring of 2020 total investment will reach around 6 million. Well, probably now they put a stop to these investments. And, by the way, Mr Harakka, we are talking about quite a significant contribution to employment that has been put into this. In their own statement, Pirela Oy tells about the VMS lite version and they say that they too have been confident that this type of country can rely on the legislation adopted by Parliament and adopted by the President to come into force after the end of the transition period. They say they've acquired limiters for about 150,000 euros. In their own statement, they say that this amount has increased even more in terms of other labour inputs. In these statements, the father of three children, Tuukka Turunen, points out that this should not be unduly delayed. I agree with the father of the three children. And Jari Vaittinen, the father of a 15-year-old youth, also raises his concerns in these statements. In other words, just ordinary Finnish people have been concerned and have pointed out that they are waiting for their own young people to use these safer light cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u57	Mr President! I am not surprised in itself, but I find it a little sad that the majority of the participants in this debate want to ignore these basic aspects of road safety, which I have raised and which are also reflected in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, in the reference points raised by the European Commission. When it was argued in this debate that the so-called light cars would also be an environmental improvement, and I quote from the explanatory statement of the government's proposal the Commission's aspect of emissions. The Commission notes that such a speed restricted car would mainly be driven within a speed range for which it is not designed. There is no information on the actual emissions of that car. In other words, there would be no guarantee that these cars, in the actual use they have to, would correspond to the emission limits required by EU legislation. With regard to whether it would have been possible to correct this legislation quickly, I would just like to remind you that the Sipilä Government, which of course could have taken up that job, was acting as the Editorial Council for its last month. The actual political government was only received in June, and almost all of this time the government has also held the presidency of the EU. In other words, the fact that it could have been clarified with the Commission now before the beginning of November whether it would be possible to find it here. Some version of a light-duty car that would not be so flagrantly incompatible with EU legislation is, however, a total waste of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u58	Madam President! A couple of points of view: Indeed, Mrs Torniainen knows this very well and widely, and she knows Swedish legislation too, and rightly described that these EPA tractors used by Swedish young people are very different from what the Finnish light-duty vehicle legislation would now mean, but all the more so, I ask: if Sweden has the possibility of creating such derogations that are appropriate to its own circumstances, why would Finland not have the opportunity to create legislation that is appropriate to its own circumstances, which may differ from the European mainstream but which we have justification for? If, in fact, Mr Harakka, the Minister for Transport, was able to open this up in greater detail. However, Mr President, perhaps the most fundamental aspect here is also the constitutional aspect that Mr Heinonen described well. Indeed, many businesses, but also many families, have already invested in the introduction of such new legislation, and I think that it would be appropriate for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider in more detail whether such investments have been justified in this way. On the other hand, I also think that the important point of view of the Constitution is that, according to Article 7 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to security and, if we as a parliament are at the forefront of a legislative change, we could increase security — in this case the safety of young people — then I think it is a place for serious reflection if we do not make this legislation that increases security possible. In this sense too, perhaps the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could take a look at this. And I think one aspect is the responsibility for the environment. In my opinion, with such understanding of elementary school and high school physics, these would be more environmentally friendly than mopeds, but perhaps here too the Constitutional Committee could consult experts on the subject. In other words, Mr President, I support Mr Heinonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u59	Madam President! I personally see that this government proposal must be concluded as soon as possible. However, we have the 1st of November approaching, and I hope that the deadline will not be exceeded. During the transitional period of this government proposal, Finland will certainly seek, together with the Commission, solutions on how to enforce light car legislation in Finland. I myself hope so and I believe so. As Mr Tuppurainen has already pointed out in his own speech, the Commission is also prepared to look for and discuss the matter, and I hope that this will also be done. In his own speech, Mr Heinonen called for the centre's position on this matter in practice. I have already said several times, in several speeches, that the Centre wants to have light-duty vehicle legislation in Finland, together with the European Commission, in such a way that it also meets all the requirements. Mr Autto also doubted whether we could have legislation similar to that in Sweden. Personally, I see that it does not have to be exactly like Sweden. I personally hope that we have legislation that meets the conditions of Finland and takes them forward. Finland is a country of long distances, and public transport does not work anywhere in Finland. We need different options for young people's mobility, and the light car option is one of them. It is safer in my opinion than a moped, but this light-duty legislation does not exclude the existence of mopeds in Finland, and it is important to take this issue into account. We'll find those solutions together. Personally, I believe that when you go through and everyone goes through that EU Commission statement and what is required there, you will find those solutions. Amongst other things, there is an intervention in limiting the speed of the controls, whether they are mechanical or electronic — it can certainly be ascertained. I personally believe that there is also a solution. Is the speed that was decided over the last period, 60 kilometers per hour, or can it be a little lower? I personally hope that it does not go to what it is in Sweden, 30 kilometres per hour. Last season, the government's proposal was 50 miles an hour. Let's think about that, too. That's one option. It is also necessary to consider whether these are the weight limits for light cars, but safety above all. Safety above all
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u60	Mr President! At the end of my previous speech, I would like to correct the sales volume of mopeds, so that the correct figure remains in the Minutes: it was in a normal situation, that is, before this legislation was adopted, about 600 cars and not smaller, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u61	Mr President! One corrigendum to that earlier speech, in which it appeared that a moped could be driven by a T-card, that is to say by a tractor card: that is by no means true. At the very beginning, when these mopeds started coming to Finland, they were delivered to the adult, older population by assuming that a person born before 85 could drive a moped without any right to drive. This distortion may also be due to the fact that the main countries are France, Italy and Spain, where these are used by the older population and where they are allowed to drive without any right to drive. Yes, I am strongly of the opinion that, as Mr Hassi said, a light-duty car or a slow-down car would be much safer for our young people than this so-called moped car.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u62	Mr President! Just one thing: when there is a great deal of evidence here that the Commission's position is the result of lobbying the manufacturers of mopeds, I would just like to ask whose positions are the result of lobbying by car dealers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u63	Mr President! When Hassi talked about this motion energy and other things: If you think about this moped car issue with that logic, then maybe Hassi could pretend that the car has a weight limit, so that at 18 you can only drive 900 kilos and then at 25 years of age you can drive 1200 kilos and then at 30 years of age you can drive 1500 kilos. That this energy and mass has nothing to do with it. We have 18 - year - old professional drivers who drive 60,000 pounds [60,000 kg] of cars. I would just like to see that we should get this thing started as a matter of urgency. In my office, I heard that some companies have invested and bought some restrictions on storage — it is quite incomprehensible that the law that is coming into force is being amended at this stage. Finland is a nation state — I believe — and we are not supposed to take instructions into our own legislation from anywhere above. Keep the country independent and make independent decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u64	The Minister would like to speak again. Is that enough for a minute?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-42.u65	Mr President! I continue to thank you for the debate. Now, at the end of this period, this protection of property was raised, so it is perhaps important to emphasise here that the law has not been repealed and that the law is not being changed, but that the law is being postponed. Of course, if someone feels that this is a financial disadvantage, it is possible to apply for damages, which will ultimately be decided by the court. But it is worth noting that the weighing that has been carried out here is also a significant increase in the risk that the European Commission will initiate an infringement procedure, which could eventually result in Finnish individuals and companies suffering greater financial damage and loss of property, not to mention the conscious abandonment of the former precautionary principle by the Finnish State.
