ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Future, on the basis of the report TuVM 1/2018 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on the Future, Stefan Wallin, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! At the moment, the near future, i.e. the next six weeks, seems to be of greater interest to both politicians and the public word than eternity. Politics is a direct broadcast, and often the old saying “in a better wash than on a branch of ten ” serves as the guiding principle of practical life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u3	Mr President! Work is diversifying and the need for more flexible forms of work is growing. In the future, the most important skill in working life is the ability to transform. In the center, we trust a person. Each generation faces new challenges, but each generation also manages to solve them in its own way. We rely on lifelong learning. It is referred to both in the report and in the committee report. In the centre, the basis for lifelong learning is created through equality in education and training. The small children’s school is our model, where the development of basic skills of a child is considered already in the second grade of the school. The necessary support should ensure that every school student is adequately equipped for the future. According to our model, the entire doctrines must be flexible and modified. The right to study — not compulsory education — must last until the age of 18, so that each young person has a degree in either upper secondary school or vocational education and training. Nor do we rule out the fact that a degree cannot also be completed using the paths of free civilised work. Mr President! The transition from education to work needs to develop in a much more diverse direction. This requires smooth interfaces from education to work and vice versa. By clinging to old structures, practices and attitudes, the inevitable change will become not only slower but also more painful. Intersectoral thinking is needed, in which education, learning, the rules of working life, employment and entrepreneurship need to be seamlessly interlinked. Even when we are in the midst of family and loved ones, work is already giving us more attention. But attention and help must also be given to loved ones when they need it. This is more important than ever. Soon all of us will have elderly parents or other loved ones whose need for help will increase over the years. A good workplace and working community are flexible for the benefit of families, as it also increases the well-being of employees. Mr President! The job needs the person who did it, and the person who did it deserves the job. In the future, there must be an increasing number of experts. Part-time people who are able to work part-time, ageing or re-educated are a huge resource. If the capacity is not sufficient, the necessary support must be provided at every stage of the learning and work path. This is also the way to prevent exclusion most effectively. Changes in the attitudes of working communities are needed for the employment of special groups. Training or rehabilitation is of no benefit to anyone if they are separated from the genuine working environment. As the boundaries of the industries fall, the work is structured in a new way. The employee no longer gives his time but his knowledge and accomplishment. The platform economy offers unlimited new opportunities that create new services, jobs and vitality. New means are needed to enable people and the labour market to adapt to this. Therefore, social security must also continue to be an integral part of a strong basic security system that gives place to entrepreneurship, cooperatives and cooperation. Technological solutions and new forms of work also provide us with the tools to meet our biggest global challenge, climate change. More and more jobs are independent of where the work is physically carried out. Platforms and connections will bring our country, our continent and our world to the terminal when we want. Through Juha Sipilä’s Government’s leading project, we have debureaucratised hundreds of different regulations during this parliamentary term. I think the best thing about all this is that in an increasing number of organisations, developers and managers have changed their thinking. Many civil servants have wanted to turn from an inspector to a coach: when there is an error in the inspection, it will be solved and corrected together. This reflects the idea and attitude that can be changed. Such thinking is also called for by the Parliament Group of the Centre Party to face up to the change in work. Mr President! Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has suggested that, in the future, the Parliamentary Committee on the Future would be involved in preparing these long-term visions beyond the parliamentary term for Finland. We in the Central Parliamentary Group warmly support this idea. The future is too broad a concept to shrink for only one parliamentary term. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Centre Group, I would like to thank the Committee on the Future, the Chairman and the Members, for a good debate and for this report. Thank you, too, to our excellent committee advisers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u4	Mr President! This is the ‘superworker’ of the future. “ ‘In the event of an artificial intelligencereform, five In recent years, there has been a lot of headlines like this about the break-in. It is true that working life will revolutionise in the coming decades with robotisation and digitalisation. However, this should not be seen as a threat, but as opportunities. A new need and form for human work has always been found, which is why obstructing development is the wrong way to deal with change. Of course, you have to be prepared for a break-in in advance. This must be taken into account especially in education, but it will also have an impact on the reform of family leave, business subsidies, pensions and, of course, taxation. Mr President! The job doesn't stop. The job changes. The question is whether education will keep pace with changing work content and tasks. In the future, knowledge grows older and faster. That is why we need a system of education that provides us with good basic skills to embrace new ones. The focus must be on skills, not qualifications. A variety of shorter, module-shaped trainings are needed in addition to qualifications, so that you do not always have to start a degree from the beginning. The focus of education must therefore be increasingly shifted to theoretical basic skills and meta-skills, which are transformed in the context of technological development. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party will propose to Finland a reform of continuous learning for the upcoming Government term. The forms of work and employment relationships also become more diverse, which requires changes in legislation and social security, for example. One key change is the platform economy. Finland has great potential to be the promised land of the platform economy. Services provided digitally can be implemented on a global scale. This, if anything, opens up opportunities for Finnish competence. However, the functioning of the platform economy requires effective rules of play. The rules of the game must be set in such a way that services and taxation are at the same level, regardless of who offers and how. Mr President! The change in work also results in the need to reform social support networks. More and more people are blurring their work interfaces: you are between entrepreneurs, employers, employees, unemployed, part-time employed and so on. The flexibility of the labour market and working life will increase and the questions of livelihood will be highlighted. That is why we need a wide-ranging debate on social security. The general support model proposed by the Assembly would combine different forms of social security and reduce red tape traps, which would always make it worthwhile to accept work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u7	Mr President! The foresight reports are entitled “The Future of Workbreak Finnish Work”. I would like to point out right away that the report recognizes the future perspective of the transformation of work. It is less aware of the change in work that has already taken place, and future policy solutions should take a stand without delay. Perhaps the biggest change in work has taken place over the last 30 years, when the number of primary jobs has halved twice. You don't work just for primary school anymore. Upper secondary school or vocational qualification has become basic education of our time. At present, however, one in six young people still lack secondary education, i.e. no basic education. Mr President! The current key question for the future in relation to the transformation of work is whether education prepares young people for the world in which they will live. For years, therefore, the SDP has been pushing for an extension of compulsory education and genuine secondary freedom. It is important for the future of young people that this should progress. Mr President! The foresight report, on the other hand, highlights the need for the development of a continuous learning model in response to the transformation of work. That's good. In the opinion of the SDP, a broad, human-driven model of continuous learning, along with secondary education, has emerged from the need to reform our education system as a result of a change in work. Furthermore, there is, of course, the need to strengthen, for example, comprehensive school and its equality. And as this report shows, we are getting busy with these educational reforms. Mr President! With today's reforms, we will determine what the future will be. The 2030s are as far away as 2008 and by then, for example, the world should be able to halve its CO2 emissions in order to overcome the climate crisis. In terms of change in work, experts believe in three changes that digitalisation, robotization and artificial intelligence produce. Modern work disappears, new work is created, and the content requirements of current occupations change. Mr President! During the discussion of this report, the Prime Minister has raised the question: Finland would need a long-term vision of the post-election period. The SDP has taken up the challenge of the future for the past year and a half. We have built a broad future line based on the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, the 2030 Agenda vision. Based on the UN vision, the future of the SDP is based on sustainability in everything: the economy, our everyday lives and the environment. Over a year and a half, some four and a half hundred volunteers have built the future line, and we have specifically built the targets for the 2030s and then for the coming parliamentary term. The work does not end in the elections but continues over the parliamentary term. Mr President! The SDP is therefore ready and willing to give a future perspective to parliamentary work and its management. We believe that long-term work, for example, in reforming social security in the direction of universal security, will increase people's confidence in everyday justice and that society will also endure and support when people need support: the sick have the courage to be sick, the unemployed have the courage to train themselves and the shredded worker or the sole entrepreneur will accept new work. Mr President! “The future of work and work in Finland” In committee, we decided to increase the level of ambition by asking experts what they think is missing or what has not been dealt with. Those statements, as a whole, are of enormous value and I recommend that they be read to all the fellow Members. The answers we received in the committee's report are grouped under two headings: 'Ethic 'and 'Humanity'. Ethic is primarily related to platform work and artificial intelligence. In the ‘humanity’ package,the One of the most beautiful promises in Finland has been the promise of equality: the background does not determine what a person can become. The future of society depends on our ability to fulfill this promise, which is not being fulfilled at the moment. In the future, we must be able to prevent exclusion and analyse things from the perspective of the whole. We can't afford to fall in the future. In addition to ethics and humanity, I would like to make a specific point of view, which was specifically mentioned by the expert. Jenni Tuominen, Executive Director of Monika-Women, stressed that the expertise and competence potential of those who moved abroad, already living in Finland, is now being overlooked in the report. We're gonna lose these experts. You should give them a chance. It is also worth picking up the climate expert Tuuli Kaskinen’s perspective on how we would focus our attention on companies and their challenge of turning into 1.5-degree global companies, how we would support the right kind of action and, on the other hand, make possible transitions. Mr President! I will conclude by referring to the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which emphasises Finland's strengths and the whole chain in the education system when we talk about the transformation of work. The message can be summed up in this way: fear away, the world has never progressed by fear, we will come up with solutions. Finally, I would like to thank the committee advisers and the committee as a whole for their excellent and long-term work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u8	Madam President! The second part of the Government Report on the Future was in this Chamber in a referral debate at the end of October and has now returned to the Chamber. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy have delivered an opinion in consultation with experts, and we have received a unanimous, high-quality report from the Committee on the Future. The report contains ten ways to anticipate and exploit the challenges of the future of the transformation of work. Mr President! Globalisation and technological development, such as digitalisation and artificial intelligence, are key issues and concepts in the transformation of work, but also climate and demographic change. As a result of technological developments, jobs and whole occupations will disappear and new ones will emerge. New forms of work related to the transformation of work are often close to entrepreneurship and can take place in different networks and platforms. We already have many examples of this. Continuous lifelong learning is a way to keep all people involved in this transformation. Retraining and support for learning different technologies are also important. Conversion training, which Mr Lindström, the Minister for Labour, has spoken about a great deal, is a particularly important part of this. Mr President! The change in work is globally reducing middle-income full-time work, which has weakened the stability of societies. Blues are not in favour of opening up cheap labour markets to Finland by dismantling the needs of foreign labour. It is not only an economic issue, it is a matter of the labour market, it is also a matter of security. Social stability is important. Key areas of labour shortages have already been exempted from needs testing and permit processes can be further facilitated. It is in Finland's interest to have immigrants who are skilled in the labour market in Finland, but it should not be pursued at all costs. Companies exploiting the fossil economy are currently facing a major challenge. The dismantling of the administrative burden on the small entrepreneur and the modernisation of tax practices would also support these entrepreneurs in a new one. Everything requires ideas and precise planning. The parties have an important role to play here, and a good example of this is the Finnish plastic road map prepared by the Government. The fight against environmental damage and climate change will create business, and there is an order for companies that enable sustainable development. Mr President! Working and our common environment are both values that are important to blue people. The taxation of low- and middle-income workers must continue to be reduced in the next period. The transition from labour taxation to harmful taxation is in line with sustainable development and climate strategy. We want to avoid increasing barriers to work by increasing the tax burden on motor vehicles. Driving in a country with long distances is absolutely necessary. Blues want to invest in the corridors and the car tax to be phased out. By improving the transport system, we can increase the competitiveness of our country and the vitality of our regions. I saw examples of this when I visited Kainuu this weekend. The investments in the transport infrastructure pay for themselves as a cleaner environment, increased economic growth and also increased satisfaction among Finns. Mr President! We also attach importance to the incentives of society for families with children, because the low birth rate increases the sustainability gap, which is a problem for many Western countries in the future. With the ageing of the population and the low birth rate, the dependency ratio in Finland is also threatening to deteriorate in the next few decades. We therefore believe that, for example, home care support should be increased next season. In the run-up to the elections, we would only be talking about cuts if the current government had not determinedly improved incentives to work in particular, resulting in more than 130,000 jobs. This needs to be continued, clarified and improved, not withdrawn. Mr President! In the midst of this transformation, blue people want to secure Finnish jobs and stability in society. At the same time, the environment can also be taken care of. The transformation of work has a profound impact on how our society will be built in the future and whether citizens have jobs, livelihoods and, above all, security. The most important thing is to ensure public safety. The Finnish welfare society has always been based on having everything in the same boat and on equality of opportunity. That's what blue people want to hold onto in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u9	Mr President! The work has been and will continue to be an important part of our lives. The work was used to raise our country from a poor agricultural society to an industrial state, to obtain bread for the table and to finance the Finnish welfare state. But the job changes. Less and less things are done from start to finish with just hands. Information technology and robotics take over the industry and replace manual handicrafts. This development has been continuous and will continue. The fundamental question for us Finns is how well we as a nation are prepared to accept new ways of working. How well can our legislation, education and society adopt new ways of working? Finnish society is no longer just a so-called eight-to-four society in one permanent workplace or a job of a lifetime, but in more and more cases open 24 hours a day, we do telework and our employers change every few years. Mr President! There are ten important statements in the report of the Committee on the Future, and I would like to highlight three of them separately: The first statement requires the Government to create alternative scenarios and operating models, also in view of the fact that the change in the global operating system is permanent or very long-term. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the Government also needs to analyse more widely scenarios where the development of international cooperation is not desirable. For example, a more complex world policy and the difficult decision-making of the EU require preparation under Plan B. For example, how would we act if the Russian export boycott extended to all Finnish export products? What will we do when the leadership of the European Union becomes incapable of leading and complying with its own rules? We have already seen this in the context of the asylum-seekers crisis in 2015 and in the EU's silence and attitude towards the Catalan people's desire for freedom in 2017. Mr President! The second statement in the report is also very important. As stated in the statement, we must ensure that the lifelong learning model is developed taking into account the updating of skills already in employment. In addition, we must ensure that we get a large number of young adults without secondary qualifications involved in education. The importance of this statement is that, as work and society continue to change, knowledge must also change. We talk a lot about competitiveness here in the Chamber. Competitiveness consists of many things, one of which is the competence of our workforce and the number of people of all working age. Have we done enough in Finland to promote continuous education and thus increase our workforce reserves? I'm afraid we're not. Mr President! As a final statement, I would like to make the eighth statement. In the statement, the Government is required to examine the impact of platform economy, blockchain technology and cryptocurrency on the economy and to promote international cooperation between the Tax Administration to promote platform economy surveillance and develop new platform economy services. Behind the somewhat cryptic words of this statement is genuine concern about how the foundations of the economy of Finnish citizens and the Finnish state will change and how we will be able to prevent the economy from turning into a wild west. For example, will there be any more traditional banks in the future when blockchain technology transfers each individual's data on mortgages and bank account balances to one database, which is basically open to all? Does the lending business thus turn into separate virtual credit institutions and money into a virtual one, which does not require a bank office? Are we prepared to have everything behind one or two major databases? Who manages it and why? And to what extent will Finland as a country and a Finnish human being be subordinate to the global economy in the future? These are all issues that the Finns of Finland believe need to be considered with particular care and which must also be taken more seriously into account in political decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u10	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about a job break-in. The report on the future and our report on it have focused on how work is changing and on the social implications of this change. The structural changes in work are a reality, and the technological transformation is strong, but the work itself is not disappearing. As I have said before, robots, for example, do not basically take up work but change it. Moreover, working life is no longer one track from education to occupation and then retirement, but more and more careers appear as a network of crossing paths where opportunities and conditions live and change in time. The division of people into, for example, the unemployed, entrepreneurs and employees is no longer today, not to mention tomorrow and the future. Responding to the insecurity of working life and the transformation of work in general requires many ways. One of these is the overall reform of social security, which must be launched immediately during the next parliamentary term. In the context of the reform, steps should be taken towards a basic income that makes it more meaningful to accept work and provides security in changes. Basic income would increase the predictability and planning of life and encourage even accepting occasional work. Unfortunately, the initial income test carried out back then was too limited in sample size, and in the next phase the experiment should be extended to entrepreneurs and self-employed people, for example. Mr President! Another important way to respond to the transformation of work is through education. The role of lifelong learning and education is growing. Learning to learn is becoming more important. As part of this work, learning and re-training must continue to be facilitated. Nor should individuals be punished if their choices do not go far into the future. In the midst of all this, one aspect that should also be considered much more broadly is the relationship between technological change and civilisation. For example, when professional competence in working life requires ever more specific expertise, there is a risk that the foundations of general education, for example, will be undermined in education. In Finland, too, there have been billion-class cuts in education at a time when technological change would require a very special investment in education. Without a solid educational base, it is not only difficult to create new innovations but also impossible to manage and act as an open society over a long period of time. Mr President! We need a broader and also ethical debate on what we really want from technology. Schools, for example, do talk about digital leaps, but progress is still often geared up, without a deeper understanding of what technology wants. The tablet in hand is just a tool, and there is no innovation generated when you blink your cell phone. On the contrary, you can even scratch our ability to concentrate and think. For example, the power of algorithms is already so great that teaching algorithmic thinking and increasing understanding should be seen as civic skills that should be managed to some extent by all. Also of particular importance are the diverse media literacy skills that enable us to protect ourselves from, for example, all kinds of fake information that artificial intelligence and new technologies bring new ways of spreading. Technology policy must also be based not only on ultra-optimistic expectations, but also on a broad analysis of the drawbacks. Even in the foresight report, technology is viewed in places naively, imagining that it solves questions as it does itself. The report completely ignored ethical challenges such as the use of human data. Or, for example, climate change: with technology we may be able to contain it, but technology itself is subject to extensive environmental concerns, and the means to combat climate change are already in place. There is no point in being lulled into the sudden zeroing of emissions through technologies. It is about solutions for us, for people, and how and what technologies we use. We could also make better use of technology in the future when measuring well-being and sustainability. It would be good to replace GDP with other, more comprehensive indicators for assessing society’s success and well-being. So it is not only technology that should be done before politics, but work must be done for the good of the planet and man. Environmentally and socially sustainable solutions must be sought for the transformation of work. This is an existential matter. The major trends in society, technological development, climate change and the transformation of work, will also challenge our understanding of success, well-being, livelihood and work in the future. We must prepare ourselves to think about these issues in a very fundamental way again in the coming years. This is also stated in many different ways in the excellent report by the Committee on the Future. Humanity, ethics and the safeguarding of the environment must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u11	Mr President! When many things change at the same time, it is difficult to see far. That is why the policy of puberty is often conservative. Politicians stop and wait for the fog to disappear just when decisions are most needed. This is the biggest weakness of the Government's report on the future. We do not dare or know how to take concrete strong initiatives, because everything can go quite differently after all. The same timidity also plagues the report by the Committee on the Future as such, which is worthy and thorough. Mr President! The report identifies the transition from a wage-labour society to a world where work is done in varying ways, in varying contractual relationships and in varying durations. Although the share of the current full-time relationships in wage work has remained unchanged, this stable core is growing around the status of a vague crop of fragmentation, work placement, groundwork, self-employment, unpaid work, light entrepreneurship, grey work and zero-contract work, where nearly one million Finns are already suffering as a result. The fact that a number of developments are taking place, which we do not yet know how important they are, makes the labour market even more obscure. Only time will show how digitalisation, artificial intelligence and other new technologies affect the organization of work. Another challenge is that of changing more and more of the work past the official monetary economy, e.g. virtual currency or direct return services. In the middle of all this, the report's proposals remain very lukewarm. The report by the Committee on the Future will venture a little further, among other things, when it proposes to bring together all the legislation relating to the income generated and the benefits linked to it under a single income cycle. The idea of a income cycle is based on the bold observation that the livelihood of almost all Finns consists of various incomes and income transfers. It is certainly more sensible to harmonise their legal treatment and taxation, for example, than to fragment them. However, the income cycle would only be the first step towards the reforms that we need to make in the labour market change, to basic income or, at the very least, to change the paradigm of labour market policies in which unemployment benefits are abandoned and the active model. When participation in labour market policy measures is voluntary, they must also justify their usefulness to the unemployed themselves. Resources released from control bureaucracy could, for example, implement a subjective right to study guidance to facilitate lifelong learning. The change in working life also requires amendments to the backboards: collective bargaining rights for self-employed workers, minimum pay and criminalisation of underpaid work. Mr President! The great task of our generation of decision-makers is climate change. The question is how to organise work in such a way that it produces sufficient income and well-being while at the same time reducing the carbon footprint. The work of a carbon-neutral society will be different in many ways from the working life that we fossil capitalists are used to. It is up to us to decide what is produced in general and how production and consumption should be developed in order to make our society more self-sufficient, more carbon-efficient and more ready to change as a result of global warming. One thing is certain: there is no need to worry about the end of work in the face of this task. We need to raise Finland to the tracks, strengthen the structures of shared use and ownership, renew energy production, renovate the building stock, restore the bog and increase the carbon sequestration of arable land. There must be a preference for durable consumption, remote work, vegetable proteins and local food. We must reduce environmentally harmful business subsidies with a strong hand and increase the budget for research and development. Mr President! Again, the future needs us politicians to align, regulate and lead. If there is no certainty, the best estimates are satisfactory. If there is no clear overall vision, at least the steps that have already been identified must be taken. We know what needs to be done to keep the ball viable and worth the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u12	Värderade Talman! Förändringarna i arbetslivet är en av de absolut mest centrala frågorna just nu. Framtidsutskottet kommer med en viktig analysis om vad som pågård i vårt samhalle. Som utskottet constaterar får vi både nya, otraditionella sätt att arbeta och fler anstalllningsformer. Det förutsätter förändringar i lagstiftningen, i socialskyddet, men också i våra attityder. Jag lyfter fram fem politiska åtgärder, eller startkare utryckt reformer, som är nädvändiga i den snabba utveckling som pågård.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u13	Madam President! The Government report examines the break-in of work in which we are currently living. Technological developments bring great opportunities that must be exploited. At the same time, development brings challenges that need to be addressed. Work is becoming increasingly fragmented and uncertainty about the future has increased. The earnings development of young generations is weaker than before. For the first time in recent history, today’s young people will earn less on average during their working lives than their parents. The Christian Democratic Parliament will sign a report on 18 draft measures. In particular, we emphasise three measures which we consider to be of prime importance and which should be promoted during the next parliamentary term: First of all, using artificial intelligence so that instead of artificial intelligence, we can talk about real support intelligence. Support intelligence can help improve functions and find optimal solutions, but so that they serve people and take account of individual needs. Secondly, there is a need for a broad and open debate on the reform of social security. Our parliamentary group has highlighted the need to reform the social security system and has developed its own supportive basic security model. The system should improve the profitability of working while providing security in the unexpected changes in life. When social security starts to be reformed, we need to find a common vision of the direction in which it is being developed. The objectives must be clear and the system must serve the individual and the community. Thirdly, there is a need for investments in well-being at work and the maintenance of working capacity. The current situation, where people are increasingly being burdened with demands and pressures that are not sustainable. There is also a need for a wider range of people in working life. We need to find models for those who are able to work part-time for meaningful work. We need to make better use of the expertise and abilities of seniors. We can no longer afford age discrimination. The skills of pensioners must also be utilised by enabling flexible and profitable work for pensioners who wish to work. And the importance of good family policy as a correction of the age structure of the population should not be underestimated. Mr President! The Future Committee has done a good and worthy job. The Committee's report stresses the importance of continuous learning. It is particularly important to take into account those young people who are at risk of being excluded from society and working life just because they have not been able to find a suitable educational path and have therefore been deprived of secondary school. The committee also stresses the fight against climate change and the resulting problems. We need practical solutions on the impact of environmental and climate issues on workers, businesses and regions. This theme must also be put at the centre during the forthcoming presidency of the EU. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament stresses the importance of the final proposal for a position in the report of the Committee on the Future. It is important that we are able to develop an ethical assessment of technology and an assessment of the social impact of technology. We must be able to identify and resolve ethical and accountability issues related to artificial intelligence and digitalisation. Similarly, health impact assessments will need more attention in the future. Change should not be an end in itself, but an opportunity to do things better. While digitalisation and teleworking, for example, are increasing, the importance of genuine encounters and the support of the working community for well-being and the relevance of work in the future should be borne in mind. Artificial intelligence will never replace human and human encounters. Technology must be harnessed to support man and to the benefit of the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u14	Thank you. Now we have heard the group speeches, and now we have Minister Lindström's next speech. There will then be replies for a while, and then we will also have Mr Väyryse's speech there after the replies. — Here you are, Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for this debate and for the group speeches. Actually, I tried to put up these themes that arose here. Let us start with this lifelong learning and then with the availability of labour, which is currently one of the main obstacles to growth. This report, on the one hand, and on the other hand, has, in my opinion, given the right thing to do. Many times, when this debate is followed, it bothers me a little bit, that as if one way is the way we solve things, some silver bullet with which we can move things forward. I don't think so myself. We need numerous means to meet this challenge, which we will have in the future when we are actually in the middle of a break-in. I have also experienced the break-in of work during my own career and, in a way, I have seen it — not just in a sense but in practice — how the work changes, how the population decreases and production increases when technology has evolved. I admit that sometimes, perhaps just over ten years ago, I thought that robots come and take our jobs and that we are so smart that we find ourselves unemployed. Now that you've been around Finland on this mission, and you've been to quite a few companies with robots, I've actually noticed that without those robots, there wouldn't be those jobs. So we need to see this as an opportunity rather than a threat. Smartly done, the Finns will be fine. I believe that we must be at the forefront of its development in making change and not in the flow. We have a lot of potential for part-time workers, which has been raised here, for work-related immigration, as long as this is done smartly, and I would argue that the fact that the employment rate is now 72.6 also forces us to finally pay attention to these groups where the potential exists. There's a lot of work to be done there. With regard to those who are able to work parttime, it might be thought that, when we used to think about how a person could get out of work as quickly as possible, we now turn this thinking in such a way that how that person could continue working with the abilities — functional ability, ability to work — what he has left. I say that there is a great deal of potential there, and then we will be talking about a five-digit figure in terms of the number of jobs in this area. On the other hand, this learning and, above all, this kind of fast learning needs to get more action. Conversion training was raised here, but I am still calling for the apprenticeship market in Finland. We need an apprenticeship, for example, to train young people and, above all, to provide jobs in the SME sector. There's a lot of potential there. I was pleased to hear this statement by Mr Rehn-Kive. He said that the RKP believes that universality is all right, but that should not be a reason not to reform working life — I quite agree. Then we will actually come to the central issue that Mr Torsti also called for: the vision of the post-election period. I believe that we are at that point in this country, as if the bottoms of the laurel have been dug. This government has probably done the right things but also the wrong things, and I think the wrong thing is this: so that we can reform them really, really difficult things, it is not the way that we go to the table with the finished paper, but we invite everyone to the table and say that there is a figure — it is 75 or 80 — that is going to be resolved. First, we tie the crew to it and then we do it. I believe that Finns are able to settle even difficult matters, but not that they feel that they have not themselves influenced the way in which it is done. If this can be resolved, I would argue that we are going much further in terms of the change in work and are responding to the challenge we face as a country. Then we will also come to all kinds of legislative issues. We have tried to do things during this parliamentary term in such a way as to make legislation possible. For example, the Working Time Act, which is in Parliament: Its idea is precisely to meet the needs of the 2020s and 2030s. It is flexible, but it is not understood only unilaterally, it is flexible in both directions. Then it'll be balanced. It makes it possible not only to reconcile work and leisure but also to give the entrepreneur, for example, a job when he or she needs it. We're here on a big deal. In my opinion, this report is excellent and these measures must only be put on the feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u16	Thank you. — Let us now go to the replies, the one-minute speeches. First of all, I would like to admit to those who made a group statement and then to the others. And, as I said, finally, there is Mrs Väyrynen's group statement, five minutes, but now one minute of replies. Congressman Pirttäähti will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u17	Madam President! Indeed, good group contributions. After all, in this report itself we have 18 points and then we have a good stance on this. In many of these 18 points, the Centre's working life policy has also taken a stand. I would like to make a point here, which the Minister has also mentioned here, namely this lifelong learning. If we look at the children born this year, they are basically in the final part of this vision, then in 15 to 20 years' time the working age and just going to work. So in what way do we take into account, for example, the development of young people's learning skills and especially of learning skills? So this second pontificate is very strong, which is what's involved. I see that this should be strengthened, lifelong learning, but also that it would be possible for entrepreneurs, for example in the context of this second-degree reform, to direct these young people even more into this career.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u18	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank our committee secretariat for the excellent work that has just been carried out, which has not been mentioned in that group speech. This is what I would ask the ministers: For example, in Finland we now have a huge shortage of codes, and actually that question is based on the fact that we have any kind of instance in Finland, which could possibly predict such things in the future. Why did we not have anyone who spoke five to six to seven years ago about the fact that we soon need coders? I think we lack this kind of entity completely from society, and it should be created as quickly as possible. The second is that when the vision of 2030 says this, we should have half of our students with higher education. It means that one sixth of the working-age population will do the rest of the work. Is this possible? Or do we need in any way work-related immigration, possibly dismantling the availability exercise, because we will run out of hands if we come to this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u19	Mr President! First of all, in that group speech, I did not discuss the important point which the SDP group can easily relate to, i.e. a more diverse perspective on work, working ability, partial ability to work, something that the minister there very well opened up, that hopefully there will be a strong consensus. The point I would like to ask the Minister about now relates to this debate on work-related immigration, which was also referred to in several group speeches. I myself referred to Jenni Tuominen, the Executive Director of Monika-Women, in consultation with our committee, whose very strong and clear message was that all this debate is constantly forgetting the immigrants who are already living here, whose unemployment is very high. This is a knowledge potential that is not being used and, instead, we are talking about future reforms, as it were. I would like to ask the Minister what you are doing at the moment to promote this issue, both at the level of concrete employment and at the level of attitudes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u20	Madam President! As short-term jobs become more common, more and more Finns find themselves in a situation where wage income and social support need to be combined as food for life. A number of groups have already expressed their views on what is highlighted in this report on the future, namely this reform of social security, the debate on it. Blues are not in favour of basic income free of charge, but they are in favour of basic security for consideration, that you can then receive basic security on top of a small salary until a certain monthly income, that at all times it would be worthwhile to take up work, because at least for me, the young people's feedback has been that there are high rents, high housing costs, social security, not to go to work, not enough wage income. We need to change this. But I would like to ask the Minister for Employment that, given, for example, my hometown of Espoo, where 70 per cent of the new residents are foreign-language speakers — they, of course, also need jobs, as has been pointed out here — what you see as the most important challenges for them at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his proper answer. We in Finland have been talking for years about how the population is ageing and how the demographic dependency ratio is deteriorating. This is undeniably a major challenge for Finnish society in many ways and also from the point of view of work. In some countries, such as Japan, efforts have been made to address this challenge of demographic dependency, in particular by strengthening technology and automation, including in the public sector. After all, Japan has not opened its borders to cheap foreign labour, for example, not to mention humanitarian immigration. Mr President! It is clear that robots will not be able to replace all human work in the future, so I would ask the minister concerned: Do you see that we in Finland have so far been able to make the best use of the possibilities offered by technology, especially in the public sector? And if you do not see it this way, how strongly do you believe that technology can bring more benefits in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u22	Mr President! There have been several speeches about basic income free of charge and free of charge. In my opinion, the support for basic security for consideration relies on a wrong analysis of the situation in relation to our labour market. It relies on the assumption that the greatest friction factor in our labour market would be that the current basic income transfer system would not financially encourage work. This is not the case for others except for income support. Unemployment benefit does encourage work economically. Even in the case of income support, the fact that it is used so much and so many are involved in it is precisely because of the consideration when it comes down when it comes to carcities and active models and so on. What is essential in our current social security system for employment is the red tape, the arbitrariness and difficulty and unpredictability associated with it, and it is only solved by basic income or similar systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u23	Mr President! Finland has been working for decades on education, and students from abroad come here, many of whom settle permanently in Finland. In contrast, we have many young people in Finland who go abroad to study and who also decide to stay abroad. There are many reasons for this. It may be that a young person has not received a study place in Finland. It may be that after tax, the amount of work left in hand abroad is more than in Finland. It may be difficult for a family living abroad to find affordable housing here in the capital region, when returning to Finland is a risk. It may be that a Finnish life partner living abroad does not receive a residence permit from Finland. We should do everything we can to ensure that the educated and skilled Finns return to Finland and are involved in developing this country. How can we prevent this brain drain in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u24	Mr President! It is good that Mrs Rehn-Kivi raised the issue of family leave reform in her speech. After all, in November the Family Federation published a family barometer showing that Finns do not want quotas for family leave, but want to decide for themselves who to care for their children at any time. And I now draw attention to the fact that most parties, including the RKP, have introduced compulsory quotas for family leave reform, and the pressure to reduce home care support is also strong. That was already in the last parliamentary term. It is important to increase the employment rate, but we should also see the value of the work that is done in homes when children are raised and cared for. It's a real future work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u25	Then the chairman of the committee, Mrs Wallin, Stefan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u26	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent contributions and thank you for the good work we have done at this stage, too, for our excellent secretariat, who is sitting there in the gallery. President! Life and politics are, in a way, live broadcasts. They are also hand-to-mouth activities. But when we talk about the future, it can't be like this. The parliamentary term for future policy cannot be four years. It is perhaps 40 or 400 years, or even more, and when we talk about sustainable development and climate change, that is exactly how it is. Of course, certain deadlines can be set for these phenomena in the 2030 climate policy, mainly within the framework of contractual regulations. But in practice and ultimately, everything depends on us being able to keep up with very extensive and deep evidence. When considering the future, the development of technology is at the centre and robotisation, automation and digitalisation are such phenomena. Of course, these phenomena deprive the labour market of traditional jobs, revolutionise the labour market, but also create a lot of new work, especially with the help of technology. However, it seems that it may not always be understood, recognised and accepted that this will happen. These phenomena are still seen as a lot of threats. Of course, some thought is given to the possibilities, but in surprising circles too. What does the Minister think of this technological development cluster: digitalisation, robotisation, automation, artificial intelligence? Isn't this a huge opportunity more than a threat?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u27	Mr President! When we talk about the work of the future, it is important that we link it to the challenges of sustainable development. And here we need better policy coherence. This has not been consistently taken into account in all decision-making. Climate change and more broadly sustainable development have a significant impact on the transformation of work and the work of the future. Indeed, our challenge is to bring about a green change in production at the same time and to solve the challenge of securing a sustainable livelihood. It's a big challenge, but it's possible. Climate change forces us to think about completely new technological solutions, and this is a great opportunity for Finland. Technology can stop some jobs and occupations, but at the same time it also creates new jobs. So the work is not running out, even though such threats are heard. But that job does change its shape. It's a completely different job tomorrow than it is today. This has always happened in history, and when technology develops, this is only a natural development.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u28	Madam President! When we talk about the future, the path of lifelong learning, as has been highlighted here in many speeches, is one of the most important elements, so that everyone has equal opportunities to move forward on both the learning path and the working life. Of course, we must also talk about possible discriminatory structures: structures that prevent, direct or place people in a unequal position. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report, which was discussed last week in the Chamber, highlighted the fact that the experience of discrimination relating to people's origin and ethnic background is still an element which will be the most frequently reported to the Office. A large study has recently been carried out in Sweden to investigate this discrimination. Among other things, it showed that there was not really a difference between whether a person was born in Finland or elsewhere, but that the experiences of discrimination were significant and very similar, both in terms of education and pay and in terms of access to employment. We would also need the same type of research in Finland and through it a concrete programme to prevent discrimination in education and working life. What does the Minister think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u29	Madam President! The fact that we have small and medium-sized enterprises, all in all our business life, in a way that they are able to employ, is particularly important in terms of employment and employment in the future. Even today, some 140,000 jobs that have come during this parliamentary term make up the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises. But how, then, is it considered to be safe there for a bad day? Yes, it is necessary to be able to raise pension and receive social security from entrepreneurship if you are caught by illness or unemployment if you simply do not have those jobs. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have a more entrepreneurial mindset in this society, and entrepreneurship education is a key factor in this, the fact that children, young people are already being taught self-care, bringing the education closer to business life and showing what is concrete about entrepreneurship. Not everyone is going to be entrepreneurs, but a lot of people might be, and that's what's driving this society forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u30	Madam President! Thank you for an excellent report. I used to read general history as a major, and I think about a lot of things in the timeline. It is great to look back and it is great to live in the present, but it is also necessary to look to the future. Atypical employment relationships have been mentioned here, and I myself spent ten years as an athlete and in very atypical employment relationships, where incomes were fragmented around the world, as it turned out, and there was, of course, constant uncertainty about income. There was a lack of clarity about how to deal with pension matters and how to deal with taxation properly, that everything will be well-managed. Much progress has been made in this regard, but I am happy to hear whether the Minister has any ideas on how to limit success in sport in Finland and how, on the cultural side, it can limit success if compared to the control countries of Norway or Sweden. On that side I believe that such co-ordinating factors could have much to offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u31	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for a good report. Building a climate-proof society is likely to create a lot of new work, and it is a transformation and a task comparable to building a welfare state. It's one big construction site. There's a lot of work to be done, and old jobs change. However, the work also disappears, and the content of the third effort in the committee deals with this. It says that mechanisms should be developed to compensate companies, people and regions most affected by climate change mitigation measures for the costs of adaptation. The pony is very important. According to the Left Alliance, Finland needs a fair climate change programme suitable for Finland's conditions, which takes into account the impact of combating climate change on work and employment. The programme should identify the sectors and areas in need of change support and define how a climate-friendly society is built in a socially just way and how people are supported by change. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see the need for this type of programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u32	Madam President! There are many things in this response to the transformation of work, but there are a few points of view: This effort, which talks about knowledge and its further improvement: Secondary education must be treated as a basic level for everyone and, on the other hand, the need for continuous learning must be the top priority in the development of knowledge. I would have asked the Minister what I could not find: once we have a regional change of work here too, and one answer has been to say that there is a multi-spatial situation, that is, a job and a place of residence could be different places of work, then, of course, there is a requirement for telecommunications to work, just as the rest of the transport infrastructure, so that it is possible. But digital services are also a prerequisite for the possibility of living in different parts of Finland in terms of services from where the actual job is. This is not what I found in your report, and I would like to see a joint position on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u33	Mr President! The Future Committee is a unique system in the world, and how would I describe it, so the visionaries and propelli heads of the future will be able to tell the decision-makers where they think they are going and we decision-makers will then get a little groundwork and think about that decision-making. When it comes to work, robot cars are one thing that will change passenger traffic to some extent. Some people are afraid of their jobs, but I say that taxi drivers are still needed for service, to lift a suitcase and to take a walker into the car, that job will change. How can we respond to this by changing the education system, precisely to the future needs we will see? Is this continuing training the key to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u34	Mr President! The Committee on the Future really has an inspiring and important role to play in directing this decision-making of ours in the long term, further into the future than these are our periods of action. This is precisely what the study of the future, which I myself have studied, is about how strategic issues will be considered in the long term as part of decision-making. One thing I would like to highlight — and this is also stated in the report — is that when it comes to the future of working life, the issue of equality must be raised, and in the next period and beyond, for example, the reform of family leave is an essential element. But I would actually like to ask the Minister for Employment about the various forms of entrepreneurship. One big thing about a change in working life is that entrepreneurship is diversifying: there are different tax cards, different forms of light entrepreneurship and so on, and our system does not really recognise the different forms of entrepreneurship yet. What do you want me to do with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u35	Let me give you the answers: representatives Hänninen, Talja and Mäkipää.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u36	Mr President! A lot of thought came up on your own. In other words, 20 years ago, when I was a young student on an internship in Prisma in Raahe, these employment relationships were mainly permanent and full-time, but 20 years from now on, so more and more are fixed-term and part-time, and working life is fragmented to a very large extent, and in that sense too, this question of livelihood and incentive is central to considering what the potential and future of this change in working life is. But at the same time, of course, the transformation of education must also be taken seriously, that is to say, the conversion training and the fact that education meets the opportunities of today's working life. Family leave reform will be necessary in the next parliamentary term, and it will not force anyone to do anything, but will increase the choice of families. Mr President! I would have asked the Minister if you were in favour of a robot tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u37	And then there are three speeches: Mrs Talja, Mr Mäkipää and Mr Jarva.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u38	Madam President! We have heard that the work is changing. Two thirds of the work is currently carried out in permanent employment relationships. The number of short-term jobs will increase and the platform on which they are carried out will become more complex and it is unclear whether they are working as an employee or as an entrepreneur, the various insurance premiums involved — i.e. genuine insurance premiums — social security, pension insurance contributions. At the same time, we also come into a more complex system of taxation. We must lay down rules on how to apply tax treatment to entrepreneurs. But for that product, it is even more important to consider how VAT will be developed in the future and how in practice taxes will be collected and collected when the seller is not located in Finland. I would like to ask how, at European, world level, we are developing tax assessment, harmonisation. It is precisely the products of the platform economy. The Amazon is operating in a multinational way somewhere in the world. How can the Finnish State recover the taxes on Finns from there correctly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u39	Mr President! Firstly, the basic pillar of society is work and work. That's how we get the chance to live. It has been said here that job descriptions and changes in working life can be drastic in the future. Digitalization and technology are already familiar since 1980, and at least young people have been on the edge of this time, and they were prepared for it. But it is also mentioned that traditional jobs are being lost. If you think of sellers, accountants, cleaners, cashiers, things like this, that will lead us to prepare for a long future with which we will replace these. Not all wisdom is in the ministry, but one should develop such a long, common future. Of course, when entrepreneurs have knowledge of what they need workers for, and then they are trained on the educational side, there should be common awareness in companies, in education, in universities, to be able to respond to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u40	One more reply, Mr Jarva. Then Mr Väyrynen's actual speech and then the Minister's reply will be a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u41	Mr President! There has been a good debate so far. Working life will indeed change, and in the next period we will be forced to undertake an overall reform of social security, including family leave, in order to combine and de-bureaucratise work, entrepreneurship, study, family, leisure and everyday life in a meaningful way, and to encourage the possibility of starting a family at any age and stage of the family, that society does not direct work as a priority, but that family association is certainly what many expect. But more work needs to be done and more participation in the work needs to be done. However, I have to return to that speech by Mr Immonen so much that we went to Japan with the Committee on Education and Culture, as I recall, the other year. On the other hand, it was noted what the change in work has done when immigrants are not accepted and concentration takes place. Japan has said nationally that concentration is excessive, urbanisation is excessive, and they are really having problems now getting enough workers across the country. There will be big solutions there, and Finland will have to look at the model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u42	Thank you. — Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u43	Mr President! I believe that the first step in this report by the Committee on the Future is by far the most important. It requires the Government to create alternative scenarios and operating models also in case the change in the global operating system is permanent or very long-term. Unfortunately, this is the most important issue that the committee did not have time to address at all. After all, we are living in a world and a Europe of deep change. Let's move on to a new era. After the end of the Cold War period, a period of uncontrolled globalisation and supranational integration began. It has now reached the end of its path. It has created a global labour market, huge income differentials worldwide in different countries, huge differences in wealth. There has been major unemployment and related problems in the old industrialised countries. People have a sad feeling that it is no longer possible to influence matters when so much power has been transferred to market forces and supranational decision-making. Against this, the nations are now reacting. The presidential elections in the United States were a great example of this, and the upheavals in Europe bring out this same discontent. We do not know where all this is going, but I believe that four conclusions can be drawn: The first is that the status of nation states will be strengthened. Too advanced supranationalism in the European and global system will be dismantled and nation states will be strengthened. The second conclusion is that new rules will come into trade policy. The various countries seek to produce their goods rather in their own country. After all, US trade policy leads to this, and others are forced to follow. The third change is that the attitude towards people's mobility is changing not only at global level but also within the European Union. Among other things, the UN Convention on Migration is clearly out of date and should be reformed as soon as it has been put into effect. And the fourth point where the change will be seen is that the value of mankind’s policy will increase. Efforts will be made to address the problems posed by globalisation. Towards sustainable development on the basis of Agenda 2030. It is only now that this Agenda 2030 is also partly out of date. It was built on the conditions of the world that existed before this global transformation. It is a great pity that the committee was unable to deal with this global transformation. This is an issue which will then remain under consideration in the next Parliament and in the next Committee on the Future. Now I don't know what I've been talking about when the clock looks like crazy times, but I've said what I have to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u50	And then, Minister, please. Is that enough for five minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u54	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to the committee and the secretariat for a very good process of doing things together. In the Committee on the Future, we are a good example of future foresight – not predicting but predicting – but we are also a good example of the skills of doing things together. The purpose of the foresight report is to identify issues that are important for decision-making, especially those that will require attention in the future, and in this period the report is indeed about the transformation of work and the future of Finnish work. For the first time, this report was in two parts and has made it possible to have a more extensive and in-depth debate on this important subject. This has been a very effective way and I hope that we will continue to do so. Although the foresight report and the follow-up to the Sustainable Development Agenda — both of which are key tasks of the Committee on the Future — have interfaces, I do not think that it makes sense to combine these two issues, since both clearly have their own role to play in the debate on the future. Such a two-part procedure would be suitable for both reports. This report is extensive — it is almost 30 pages — so I will only raise a few points that I think are important and important: As I have already said in my debate, technological development is a very good thing because it creates new work, but technological development and development also involves the need to have a broad ethical debate in society on the benefits and disadvantages of technology. An example of this is the strong but invisible value choices made in the design of artificial intelligence solutions. In an online environment regulated by algorithms, the user does not know how the algorithm controls and what data and recommendations are displayed to him. The use of information requires the transformation of material into larger entities and the ranking of these entities by principles that may not be known to the user. In the future, this adaptation will be carried out by learning algorithms as a fast and automatic process involving an increased risk of discriminatory practices. If a person does not know how and why a machine does something, the machine may use a person rather than a human machine. If this is not to happen and the AI really remains a support intelligence, we must ensure that the division of labour between man and machine and the boundaries of automated decision-making are constantly monitored. The management and control of the digital world require visions and prospects of what needs to be pursued as a common good, and in this context the principles of the organisation of ethical aspects and data need to be continuously assessed and coordinated. This should be done in a multi-functional way, including through cooperation between engineers, social scientists and humanists. At the moment, we work too much in our own foxholes. At the practical level, the design of technology and related operating practices is needed jointly between technology developers and users, be it health care, education technology, taxation or any public service. The decision-makers must be aware of the continuing need for ethical judgement in reconciling and regulating the boundaries between citizens' privacy, the freedom of business and the efficiency of the public sector. A warning example is an automatic scoring system based on data collected from citizens in China during the piloting phase, which affects their social benefits and insurance conditions. I do not believe that this is an ethical and correct development. We also need a constantly maintained contingency plan for the crisis in the technology society. In its statement, the Committee on the Future proposes the development of an ethical assessment of technology, e.g. through a network or centre bringing together different actors. Technology ethics and the assessment of the social impact of technology must be made the leading know-how of Finnish society. Mr President! Just a little bit more to the other important thing: The challenge of securing a sustainable livelihood also forces us to reflect on well-being and its measurement in new ways, and the Committee on the Future has repeatedly pointed out that sustainable development also includes the welfare economy and that we need parallel indicators of the welfare economy for GDP. The indicator of national accounts, GDP, is a measure of economic activity that does not measure well-being or sustainable development directly. That is why we have taken note of the commitment to this issue, in which we expect the Government to complement the government's estimates of revenue and expenditure with satellite accounts and combined indicators that better assess the consumption of natural resources and the level of well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u55	Mr President! Climate change, over-consumption of natural resources and the collapse of biodiversity are the fates of our time. Our responses to these challenges will determine the framework for the lives and work of future generations. Controlling climate change and making our way of life compatible with natural conditions means a major social change. Our way of producing, consuming, moving, living and eating must change quickly. Production and work also need to change. For over 150 years, cheap and easily accessible fossil energy has formed the material basis of our economic and social system and has shaped production systems, consumption patterns, habitats, power structures and social relations. The capitalist market economy as we know it would not have existed without non-renewable energy. Economic growth has always meant increasing use of natural resources, and a large part of the work is also linked to the fossil economy. Now this order must change quickly and comprehensively. Mr President! It is a task comparable to that of a welfare state in its size. We can talk about the ecological reconstruction of society as a whole. In addition to cultural change, it requires, among other things, much more stringent, binding environmental regulation, the pricing of externalities in line with real disadvantages, for example through taxation, as well as major investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge. Climate change and the necessary climate action are often discussed through threats and fear of job losses. However, in the big picture, the construction of a climate and eco-sustainable society is a huge construction site. We have to build tracks, we have to have new energy systems, we have to increase recycling, we have to repair products, we have to invest in sustainable production. Instead of goods, we need to focus on services; we need to invest in quality rather than quantity. Mr President! All of this creates new and new kinds of work and activity. However, it is also clear that the construction of a climate-proof society means the disappearance or reduction of certain tasks, occupations and whole sectors. Major structural changes are never without problems. When an old job loses, not everyone can find someone to take in their skills. In this context, social policy must meet so that as few people as possible get into involuntary unemployment and income difficulties and so that as many people as possible find a new task. Such a so-called fair transition requires, for example, that the structures and content of education and training be adapted to new needs and that those in employment be able to update their skills. The need for further and retraining is increasing. Everyone must be given a genuine opportunity to do so, and it also requires that the income be secured during the transition period when a person is studying new things. Companies must also be supported when they are reforming their production and operating methods to be environmentally sustainable and looking for new markets. Funding for research, product development and innovation is essential here. Mr President! The next government should create a just transition programme for Finland, which will define the areas and areas that need change support and determine how a climate-friendly society is built in a socially just way and how people are supported in change. The programme should include mechanisms to replace increases in emissions-based contributions and taxes for low and medium incomes. It should identify and define the means by which companies are encouraged to reform and how to support continuous learning and retraining. The programme must also identify areas where new jobs are created and where new opportunities are opened up for Finland. A fair transition programme should be drawn up in cooperation with civil society sectors and trade unions. Mr President! One recent example of how social justice can be taken into account in the dismantling of the fossil energy industry is the closure of Spanish coal mines. In Spain, the government and the trade union movement agreed that the effects of mine closures will be compensated by public investment in mining sites by providing retraining and enabling early retirement for miners, with millions and even billions of euros promised. Mr President! Peat is in a similar position in Finland to coal in many other countries. The use of peat for energy also causes more greenhouse gas emissions from coal, and the achievement of climate targets requires that peat power be reduced and abandoned by the 2030s. In certain places, the peat industry has an important economic and employment impact, and in order to minimise the impact of the cessation of peat energy use on the local community, workers and businesses, a fair transition programme must be designed, such as the creation of replacement work and the organisation of regional energy supply, support for the transformation of people and businesses. Mr President! The next government should draw up a programme for a fair climate change. Climate policy and reflection on the future of work are essential under the same heading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u56	Madam President! I took a few withdrawals from this report, which in a positive way took hold when I read it. First of all, this issue of digitalisation. The report goes on to say: ‘In society, it will also maintain the potential for non-Digitalisation-free areas of life. “ It is said:‘Continued flooding reduces the need for brainstorms, which, according to The report also draws attention to the fact that people's readiness and ability to read and interpret and produce longer texts themselves has been very rapidly and severely weakened. I believe, as this report suggests, that it has a strong connection with reading, how many children are read, how many books are read and how much my native language develops through it. Surely the importance of literacy is never overemphasized. By reading, empathy, the ability to understand weak signals, the feelings of others, and, as it were, to see deeper back, and also to reflect on the future, improves both in children and adults. This literacy is something you should stick to. After all, it has now been observed in education that unfortunately there are students who, at the time of completion of comprehensive school, have difficulty in understanding what has been read, so that they are already hindering further education and normal life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u57	Mr President! As has been said, this debate is indeed very inspiring and I would think it would be a good idea, as the Minister has suggested, to consider in the future ways in which the role of the Committee on the Future and its work, this visionary work, could be used more in our decision-making. Such a sustainable, future-oriented decision-making requires that things are seen in a long perspective, which is always longer than one or two parliamentary terms. Mr President! As Mrs Wallinheimo said in that group statement of the Assembly, the Coalition Party will present Finland with a reform of continuous learning during the forthcoming government term in response and as one part of the solution to this transition in working life and work. Ongoing learning and lifelong learning are indeed at the very heart of these issues, and the way in which cooperation between the various actors will be pursued will also be central. As the report also says, we must look at the division of labour between the various actors in relation to continuous learning, responsibilities and, for example, financing models, not only for employees and job seekers, but also for employers. It is also quite clear that cooperation between the various ministries must be stepped up on these issues. As far as education and training are concerned, I should like to mention something that came up in previous speeches and also in the report, namely these inappropriate digital solutions in school education. One example that we talked a lot about in the Committee on Culture in the early part of the year was this digitalisation and its use as part of education. Indeed, we are going to go completely backwards if we start by getting students, for example, tablets for schools, when there are no ways of using them, there are not yet any content and no real knowledge, but it is appropriate that digitalisation brings added value and adds something to that teaching. Well, as already mentioned in the first part of the report on the future, this was an effort to make better use of and take into account the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Operational Programmes in relation to the work of the future, and the objectives of sustainable development must indeed be assessed as part of all the decision-making that we are doing. One good example of this period, which I would like to highlight, is that, under the leadership of Minister Orpo, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has been introduced into the state budget. The next step could be to start developing different indicators alongside gross domestic product, which would also take into account welfare considerations and, for example, environmental and climate impacts. This reflection is very important in view of the challenges we face from the welfare point of view, such as the exclusion of young people, mental health problems and the poverty of families with children. Such a combination of indicators would certainly bring new information and a set of indicators that could be taken into account in decision-making, although, as the report states, they are not entirely unproblematic and it can be challenging to do so. I would also like to highlight the creative sectors as part of this break-in of work. We know that there is a huge potential for growth in the creative sectors and that cultural activities, for example, bring a great deal of value to our society, but this potential for growth and these opportunities are not quite in line with what is the position of artists, for example. I think that the idea raised that creative operators should be one such clear target group when we look at new social security, industrial policy, taxation and this whole in the coming period would be a good idea. And you can't talk about the future unless you mention our climate challenge and 1.5 degrees. This must be borne in mind in every decision-making process that we do, that we owe to future generations. One aspect is capital committed to companies. In the future, we will have to target investments in sustainable targets and, for example, state subsidies for businesses only in areas where there is no fossil basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u58	Mr President! When you think about the future of work and the break-in, you can’t help but think of a social media photo with such a granny phone of my childhood, a thick telephone that everyone remembers how it was answered, and then there are two cell phones in the same room, a smart cell phone that screams when you see this phone, ‘Grandma’. It is an image which, in my opinion, well illustrates the change in work that has taken place in us through technology. So, on the one hand, things happen in such a way that you do not really notice them, and on the other hand, when you look back, you see the big change in how technology has changed the way it works. For example, how our very everyday tools, the telephone, have changed and what it can be used for today, in my opinion, is a good chain for technological change. It has brought a lot of efficiency, but it has also brought a lot of challenges to us in our ability to survive in a working community that is completely different from when the phones remained on the run. But if you think about this report, the work is changing and it is very different in different areas. And that is probably something we should recognize and remember when we, especially in this Chamber, are talking about that change because people experience that change in very different ways. Technology has evolved, the time and location of the work is reduced, the work is fragmented, but at the same time the technology is being used very inconspicuously. And one of the big challenges in Finnish society is that we do not remember to give time to study the use of its technology, but we often have new and new programs that are then not fully utilised, because no one has ever remembered to teach or take time to learn that they can be used. Well, the report recognizes these things and we all know them. But if you compare the first with the second, you have to say that I was very excited about the first, but I was a little disappointed with the second, because the challenges we should be facing are so great that perhaps they were not really overtaken in this second report, which means that it was somewhat short. But, on the other hand, it may be that no one has any ready and certain objections. The SDP has carried out a 2030 programme in its own work, which partly revolves around these same themes, and I think it has well brought us the picture of what the future holds and what questions we need to find answers to. But we should be able to do that as a whole in Finland. In fact, it is quite easy and the need for reform is that we know that the level of skills needs to be raised, that we need to secure livelihoods in the labour market of the future, that we need legislative reforms, whether it be taxation, social security, family leave or many other things. But we also need to know better how to link employment policy and climate policy, because I believe that climate policy has a lot of fears in which people are experiencing uncertainty, and many people think that this will be the big new change, that when work has already changed and fragmented and perhaps often brought about that uncertainty, then climate change will be the next thing to be answered, and it will become like the same kind of thing. But Finland is a country of high technology. We are also a country of high knowledge. And that is why I believe that we have good means to combine these two issues in such a way that at the same time we are making a stronger employment policy and a better climate policy. Well, the transition in work certainly requires an increase in the level of competence, and here we may have the most challenges. We have talked about the reform of secondary education, the extension of compulsory education, the reparation of education. All these things are essential and require the development of education at all levels — from early childhood education to the highest level of education, perhaps with the whole chain going to the doctoral hat. The change in work is already present. We're not just talking about the future. If we are thinking at the moment, we will have more than 200,000 jobs created and killed on an annual basis. And if you think about it on an annual basis, we have almost a million people in a new job, in a new job within a year due to graduation, retirement, and this simultaneous change in the background here is. Half a million Finns are a huge number of people, and it tells of the speed with which changes take place. The World Economic Forum noted that 65% of young people today are employed in jobs that do not yet exist. Maybe that's another way to describe the pace of change. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about learning and the whole idea of education policy. If we think about what kind of world young people come into at work, people who are currently in primary school may still be in work in the 2070s, so that young people have to learn to read the future. You have to learn to perceive more complex entities. And perhaps the most important task of education is to be able to motivate people into this lifelong learning, no matter what name they call it. Phenomenon-based learning is one of the tools that could provide solutions here. It is strongly research-based, and in it the student plans and implements his or her own learning and, in a way, owns a portfolio, for example, in a particular profession. But this must not mean learning alone, as it has currently meant, for example, as a result of professional reform, but must play a strong role as a mentor in moving the process forward and in actually learning. And the key to phenomenal learning is the creation of motivation. Feelings of autonomy, permanence and cohesion are often those that help us to create that motivation, and they are precisely the skills that are needed in working life. — Time seems to be running, and perhaps thank you, Mr President, this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u59	It would have been a few more seconds, but let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u60	Mr President! The transformation of work and technology is certainly something that challenges society as a whole in all its areas, and it is also extremely fast. It may be that the visions we are discussing here today will be obsolete in a few years' time. But this report has sought 18 measures to respond to these challenges, and perhaps it could mention at least three of them, which I myself would like to take up: firstly, this learning, which came up very well in Mr Filatov's speech, then, on the one hand, the way in which the questions of livelihood are resolved in the context of technological change, and, on the other hand, the ethical issues relating to the processing of information and its ownership and further processing. Just a few words about each of these. For one thing, such transitions in work easily divide people into success and loss. There are those who are able to pay attention to the moment and, as it were, raise it to their own level and find their own paths, and then those who do not have enough education and who feel that it is also difficult for them to adapt to new technologies. In that sense, emphasising lifelong learning and, for example, investing in it during the coming term of government is extremely important for Finnish society as a whole. Of course, the educational path must be focused on it at every point, and in particular we have had a lot of discussion on how to take this joint stage forward for those moving from primary to secondary school. At the same time, we must ensure that we do not have a group of people out of society. The reform of social security is what we need if we really want to get those who are part-time able to work better, and on the other hand we need the development of the intermediate labour market. That is absolutely essential, and we must courageously look to the rest of Europe, where the intermediate labour market is much better off. Italy, Great Britain, shows the way in which social enterprises, social enterprises, can be used here. Then we also need a social security reform for those people whose work today consists of different pieces, that is to say, there may be work done as an entrepreneur, there may be work done as an assignment and then there may be work done with a pay card. This whole piece of shrapnel work is challenging in terms of social security, it is challenging in terms of pension security. Ethical questions related to artificial intelligence will be brief. We need to be able to determine who owns this information about us. It needs to be limited and, on the other hand, it needs to be possible to combine information from different sources and to process new information. Is there a point where the original source of information can say that the information collected about him can no longer be used as a source of new databases? I believe that these ethical restrictions are extremely important and that we should also pursue legislation on these issues. It can't be that technology takes these before.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u61	Mr President! I would like to continue for a moment with the welfare economy and the welfare indicators, which the Committee on the Future has emphasised from the very beginning. After all, the welfare economy is part of sustainable development and the implementation of the welfare economy requires the introduction of new indicators alongside GDP. And in our report to the Committee on the Future, the piloting of the GPI, the genuine development indicator, has been recommended in particular, and I hope that the next government will take over. In addition, new tools for assessing the impact of policy decisions need to be developed in the context of the 2030 Agenda. The impact on well-being must be assessed in all decision-making. In order to assess the effectiveness of policy measures, qualitative indicators also need to be developed. In addition, the Committee on the Future emphasises the further development of phenomena-based budgeting so that budgeting is targeted at a phenomenon that endangers well-being in the long term in society, such as the exclusion of young people or the exploitation of part-time work capacity or well-being at work. Sustainable development as a whole is too broad for the use of phenomenon-based budgeting. Mr President! In the welfare state, measures to prevent nausea and measures to enable good and healthy life in different population groups should always be seen as well-being investments and not as expense items. Therefore, investing in children and young people is always a future investment. Investments in early childhood education, education, science and research are returning many times as much to society. And one of the elements involved in this whole issue is also the employment of those who are able to work part-time, which has been mentioned here today. We have been talking about the employment of those who are able to work for many years, for decades, in my opinion, and it is still a bad thing to do. And the report on the future is very brief. By investing in service structures and operating models that effectively support the ability to function, increase skills and combat exclusion, we can in the long term find ourselves in a situation where even rapid changes in work and working life do not create major problems at individual level or in society. While investing in support of people in the short term may cost money, such as public employment, long-term welfare benefits make investments economically viable. If investments in people’s well-being are not made, it is bound to be reflected in society’s disadvantages, exclusion and costs. In the welfare economy, it is important to be able to estimate and calculate the price of these alternative costs. One useful option would be to create long-term jobs in organisations. There is a lot of socially important and important work being done in the organisations, for example, as the home aid of the elderly, which no other body in society is doing. Carrying trees, shopping and snowing enable older people to stay at home longer. Moreover, from the employee’s point of view, even a small amount of work improves well-being and increases the experience of being part of society. Participation alone is rewarding and empowering, but its benefits are often weakened if it does not lead to sufficient income. And in order to achieve this, we urgently need a social security reform that takes flexible account of people's different situations. Work, social activity and social benefits paid for different reasons must be better combined, thus ensuring people's livelihood at all times. Flexibility in basic security must ensure that people do not become incomeless or bureaucratic traps that prevent work and participation. Mr President, to this end, I would like to raise one more key message for the future of Finland, which the committee wanted to raise in its report. Finland’s success is a story about how small, poor country becomes a society where the starting points do not define what a person can become. This reconstruction story is our strength for as long as it is true. The committee shared the common view that we decision-makers and future decision-makers should commit themselves to keeping this story true and do everything possible to eliminate inequalities. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u62	Mr President! It is easy to agree that inequality is certainly the big challenge we face. If we do not control its development, we will fail in many other areas. What I wanted to ask briefly for is the adequacy of the skilled workforce. We talk a lot about what we do in education and what we need to know, but we actually have a lot less tools to get those who are able to work better into the labour market. In my opinion, Mr Essayah described the importance of the intermediate labour market here, but we usually always think that people need to get used to those existing jobs, and this is the only way forward. Personally, I believe that when we start to have a shortage of certain professionals and when the development of working life has been constantly moving in the direction that one person needs to know more and more and more, we have to go back to the old and those multi-dimensional jobs in a certain way, because not all the knowledge can be found in one person. That is why we should develop the methods used to split up jobs in order to create the necessary skills — but in the same way so that those who are able to work part-time can also do the work that is in this society, so that we are not always expected to have the 120 % worker. It could almost be suggested that the Oivo and Collector report could be integrated into this foresight report as one of the tools for better access to the labour market for part-time workers. The second point relates to this digitisation: Finland is, in that sense, a state-of-the-art country, and I do not disapprove of it at all. It is the one that drives us forward, but we really need to remember that we have a million people with limited digital skills. So if our society moves more and more in services, education and everything else into the digital world, then there must be a completely different amount of effort than there has been so far to keep people involved, and that development has to go from that kid to Grandma. It is not enough for us to think about those young schoolchildren. I don't know if you noticed — it's been a few months now — when there was news about a British place with these Facebook robots watching what's on Facebook. There two robots had to be shut down because these robots had developed their own language and started talking to each other. So they were checking their own stuff on Facebook, and the person who had put them there to monitor the content no longer knew what they were discussing, and that was why they had to be turned off. I think this is a good example of the fact that the ethical considerations relating to technology and artificial intelligence should already be here and not in the future, and in that sense it is good that the committee has also drawn attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u63	Mr President! Just a few more words about those who are able to work part-time. In other words, it is extremely important that we develop legislation which will enable a person who is really not 100% capable of working to be able to participate in the labour market and, on the other hand, that his social security can also be used as part of the support that will enable him to be included in the labour market. In other words, part of the wage subsidy must be able to combine elements of his social security. In that sense, when there are a huge number of disabled people, for example, who have a pension, who would like to leave it to rest and who would like to make their contribution to working life, we should be able to make this possible. For some, it needs a very special form of enterprise, some are those who can manage in the workplace if they have, for example, a job counselor with them, but these are the means we need to find, because otherwise we will not be able to reach 75 % first and then as much as 80 % in the future. Everyone who is capable of so-called nails must be included in the labour market, and most often it is the case that those who are able to work part-time today have a huge desire to be in employment, and this must be possible for society. Then maybe to this social security. In other words, the Christian Democrats' model of encouraging basic security is based on the fact that social security and work can be coordinated in a way that encourages the acceptance of work and does not create red tape and delays traps that may cause people to stay, as is the case today, for several weeks without coming from any direction. On the other hand, the number of these studies is quite unreasonable in view of the fact that a person wants to take short-term employment or a fixed-term employment relationship. In that sense, our real-time income register, which has gone off to traffic this year, provides a good basis for us to be able to get a wage income in the same register and also social security, and then, when it comes to the taxpayer's share, then, in real time, the combination of social security and work is one that does not leave him in a worse position than if he had not taken the job at all. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen on equality in Finnish society: education is definitely the way. Our concern for equality in education is the way that has enabled us in Finland to have no class society of that kind in the true sense of the word, as is the case in many countries. We have the saying that not a small, not doctoral, cottage not so small for a master's degree, and that is what we must hold onto in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u64	Mr President! In fact, one of our experts from the Committee on the Future, who told me about the current situation in the school — this is now a direct quote — about this development of inequality: ‘In our school apart children are spectacular and child-conscious. Some are brought to the school yard with hundreds of tons of cars, others take care of their clothes and eating themselves from first grade onwards. Some go on vacation diving with their parents, some spend the whole holiday alone at home. These children are aware of borders, they stay with their own families, and the weaker people think that they never have the same opportunities as others. ‘I know there is no place in this world’,a picture of the situation with children. “ So this is the reality of today in which our children are, and this was indeed a direct quote from our expert opinion. In my opinion, this Parliament is the place where it is our job to ensure that every child and young person in this society has that place. We are taking the decisions here that will make this possible or that will become impossible. The future will not come upon us, it will be done together, and policy measures are the things that will build that future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u65	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u66	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Citizenship Act in such a way that the offender could lose his or her Finnish citizenship. As a result, the proposal also proposes to amend certain other laws. These crimes would have been committed against Finland’s vital interests by treason, treason and terrorist offences, which would have been the most severe punishment for at least eight years in prison and would have been sentenced to at least five years in prison or a combined sentence. On the other hand, serious crimes in themselves could not be laid down as grounds for losing citizenship. It is important to say this in the light of public debate as to whether, for example, a double citizen convicted of gross sexual offences could lose Finnish citizenship, which is not how it was possible to do so. The loss of nationality could only apply to persons who would also have the nationality of another country, i.e. so-called dual citizens, and who would have sufficient real ties with their country of nationality. At present, a decision on the loss of citizenship can only be taken within a five-year period if it emerges ex post that there were no grounds for the provision of Finnish citizenship in accordance with the Citizenship Act. Thus, for these powerful reasons, this presentation of crimes that could lead to the loss of Finnish citizenship by a double citizen is a motion of principle. The Finnish Immigration Service would decide on the loss of citizenship, and the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service could be appealed to the Administrative Court. You could apply to the Supreme Administrative Court for an appeal against a decision of the Administrative Court. It is also important to note that under the Convention on Citizenship, children could not lose Finnish citizenship because their parents lose their citizenship because of the offence. This too is significant to note. In the view of the government, there are no constitutional obstacles to the adoption of the bill and this could be taken forward in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has adopted its own report on this law and considers the government's proposal to be carefully prepared and the order of business set out therein to be largely appropriate. According to Article 5(2) of the Constitution, Finnish citizenship can only be exempted under the conditions and criteria laid down by the Act if the person has or receives citizenship from another State. Our Constitution in this regard is therefore very clear. A person cannot be left uncitizened, nor would the law presented do so. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the need to monitor the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states that the European Court of Human Rights is currently considering five complaints against France concerning the abolition of French citizenship of persons sentenced to participate in the preparation of terrorist offences. However, the Court of Human Rights is also examining these complaints from the point of view of whether France has violated the prohibition of prosecution and punishment twice. This is important to note in this case of the Court of Human Rights. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the fact that, on the basis of statistical data from the government's proposal, the loss of citizenship in accordance with the draft law would have been at most a few times in this decade. The committee is absolutely right. At least in the case of the Finnish State, there is a very limited group of people who could lose Finnish citizenship because of such crimes, but on the other hand, after what has happened in Syria and Iraq since 2014 and after the increase in the so-called foreign fighter phenomenon, when thousands of European citizens have gone to these countries, in particular as fighters of the Isis organisation, there are doubts that the number of such cases could increase. As I said, the regulation provided for in the draft law is particularly important in principle. In numerical terms, there can be no mention of a large group at the moment, but the fundamental change in Finnish citizenship law that citizenship can be lost in general, unlike in the past, on the grounds of committing such crimes, is significant. Indeed, in the past, the loss of citizenship was only on the grounds that a person should not have been legally granted citizenship in the first place. Mr President! Finally, I would like to comment on the current situation with regard to this proposal in part. We know that US President Donald Trump has proposed to Finland and many other European countries that we should take the suspected Isis fighters captured by them, the United States and their allies, into Europe, our Member States, and possibly then condemn them here in accordance with our trial. I believe that the Swedish Government has acted wisely here when it clearly stated that there is no starting point for Sweden to accept these fighters, and I would see that it would be justified for Finland to do the same. Looks like there's a little bit of a cross-play here. France, for example, has said that it will accept these people. In other words, unfortunately, there does not seem to be a completely common line between European countries in this respect. But this bill is also an important signal in principle that such crimes, such as terrorist offences, are also being taken very seriously. They are most likely to be contrary to our fundamental values, especially in the case of organisations such as Isis. When we have talked a lot about and within the Member States of the European Union about how important it is to take care of the fundamental values of Europe, then we must stick to them in this respect too. Finally, Mr President, I say the same thing as Mr Soini, that these people who have gone to the ISIS line to fight in Finland and elsewhere in Europe do not have sympathy and are not wanted back in Europe. The Swedish Minister rightly said that they should be judged there or judged here, but in any case the case law must act and those people should receive the appropriate judgment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u67	Mr President! The reason for the loss of citizenship must be a serious crime, as has been pointed out in this government proposal, and one can say, as Mrs Elo said above, that there is certainly a need for this legislation, especially for these foreign fighters with dual citizenship of this kind, to return to Finland as well. Fraud or terrorist offences with a minimum sentence of at least eight years are certainly serious crimes to which citizenship can be deprived. And just as we have heard above, dual citizenship is, however, a criterion, which means that even in the light of international agreements, people cannot be left without citizenship. After all, this discussion took place at the same time as these sexual crimes in Oulu arose, and I do not know whether it was intentional or unintentional, but somehow the communication suggested that this legislation could have been used in these cases, and apparently it was given a signal from the Ministry of Justice or was there a signal from the Ministry of the Interior that this was going to be investigated. I do not know whether the people who have been involved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have any information on whether or not this issue was going to be taken forward in any way in the debates there, but, in that communicational situation, it came up quite strongly and, in that sense, it would of course be interesting to hear whether there was a debate in the committee on this issue. Mr President! Perhaps I would still draw attention to the fact that, once these foreign fighters have been mentioned, it has been said that at the same time these people may have been paid Finnish social security in Finland, and I find this quite incomprehensible. If this is indeed the case, that Finnish social security has been paid to people who are in action that we are judged in accordance with the heaviest possible way, then I would like to see, at this point in time, that Kela's contributors will be able to look a little at where Kela's benefits are properly paid in the world and, on the other hand, the recovery of these benefits should also be quite self-evident.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u68	Mr President! Mr Essayah is right that public debate on the question of whether, for example, such measures could: In cases like Oulu, dual citizens convicted of gross sexual offences are expelled. My view of this legislative development was that it is not possible for us to do this in accordance with both the Constitution and, I believe, in accordance with international agreements. A terrorist offence or treason or treason are serious crimes that can lead to the abolition of citizenship, but I believe that in this process it was concluded that a serious sexual offence, as serious as it may be from the citizen's point of view and from my point of view, would not, however, fulfil the conditions attached to the loss of citizenship. This is, of course, an unusual situation in the sense that, in fact, parliamentaryly among all the parliamentary groups when negotiations were held after Oulu on the actions related to sexual offences legislation, this also emerged. I remember that, for example, Mr Lindtman of the Social Democrats rightly said that this too should be done, but unfortunately I have to say that this is not possible. It must also be added that the decision to lose citizenship would, of course, only be taken on the basis of a final criminal conviction, that is to say, only a crime committed after the entry into force of this proposed law. In other words, the debate I referred to earlier, about those who have already gone to fight for Isis: of course, that crime should have taken place since the entry into force of this law. Of course, retroactive legislation, the punishment, is not being proposed here; it is a question of future cases which will come to our attention and to the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u69	Mr President! For a long time, Finland has had a very naive approach to immigration, and it is, of course, right that we want to believe things in the best possible way, as they say. But now that the facts have begun to come out and there is more and more and more of this crime and are becoming more serious, it is good that we are dealing with such a proposal, and of course the loss of citizenship is certainly the hardest way out of these methods that can be applied here. Now that such a serious and burdensome procedure is being decided, it is also important to follow carefully the consequences of this and the kind of cases we are facing in practice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 39/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u71	Mr President! Finnish households have more debt than ever. There may also be more economic and debt problems than ever. Easily received aggressively marketed and expensive unsecured consumer credit, i.e. quick buys, is one of the key causes of debt problems. At the end of 2018, more than 380,000 people had a default mark — in Finnish they had lost their credit information. Last year there were nearly 580,000 debtors. The debt to be recovered has also grown rapidly. These are huge numbers, with a wide range of problems, passed-out dreams and anxiety. This is the background in which the report was drawn up in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and it is also the reference framework for this debate. Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a good and unanimous report. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy saw the need to put brittle on the quick-lease business. The government's proposal to limit the interest and other costs of quick-leases was necessary and in the right direction. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy tightened the government's proposal considerably, limiting the interest rate cap from 30% to 20%. Thank you to the committee for your courage. Up to now, the annual interest rates for some quickys may have been hundreds of percent, which means that the limit is considerable. The restrictions now agreed are not a perfect but a big step for the better. Much remains to be done for the next Parliament and the government, and the report makes provision for further work. Mr President! The Left Alliance and many representatives of other parties have long called for a restriction on the market for speed levers. This is part of the thrust of the report, in which Parliament obliges the next government to clarify the restriction of advertising. According to the pons, further clarifications must also be made on the reduction of the time for payment disruption data to be removed, on the improvement of access to social credit, and on the strengthening of the supervision and punishment of fast-start firms. In addition, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy calls on the government to assess the system of protection of enforcement and whether the person in the debt arrangement should remain more in the hands to cover the necessary cost of living. Of course, it can be said that the measures we have agreed on are not sufficient to mitigate the damage caused by the quick motion. I'm willing to go further myself. However, also for those who are prepared to blow up the whole quick-widow, the committee's report gives hope. It requires the Government to draw up an in-depth report on the need and appropriateness of the rapid-width system and, on the basis of this study, to take the necessary legislative and other measures. The statements adopted by Parliament are binding, so the next government must act accordingly. We can therefore be confident that the regulation of harmful quick-lease business will continue to be tightened up. Mr President! Restrictions on interest-bearing and aggressive marketing, i.e. regulation of supply alone, are not enough, and demand must also be addressed, i.e. the reasons behind the quick-up. For example, in 2017, more than 350,000 customer fees for social welfare and health services ended up in enforcement. So people could not afford to pay for the necessary treatment. Some have resorted to a quick visit to finance a health center visit or a medicine. This cannot continue. Health centre fees need to be abolished and payment reductions need to be increased. It must be ensured that social and health care, early childhood education, housing, study, medicines or other essential things do not unduly pay and push people into debt spirals. Basic security needs to be improved, as well as the lowest wages, which are often difficult to live in today's major cities in particular. Efforts must also be made to improve people's ability to manage their economies and to understand the real costs of speed levers. There is also a contribution from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which stresses the importance of economic education. Even in comprehensive school, everyone should be provided with basic information on the management of their own economy and understanding of the problems of quick-movement. Adults also need support and advice on economic governance, which is why debt counselling needs to be increased. Mr President! A person may have a sudden and pressing need for money, for example, when a car breaks down or to cover the deposit. In this case, a person may resort to a costly quickie if no better alternatives are available. The availability of social credit should therefore be improved. This is also important because restricting the quick-lease business does not create a basis for criminal lending. At a more basic level, the problem is also our consumer-centred culture of advertising, where status, appreciation and life content are sought through consumer choices and which drives many people to life over their means. It is therefore more difficult to intervene in this matter by the means at hand in this Parliament. Mr President! Even good laws won't help if they're not monitored. It is therefore important that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be given the means to intervene in the activities of high-visit companies. The police must also be awake in order to put those involved in illegal borrowings under control and be held accountable. Mr President! Thank you again to the committee and to Parliament as a whole for making progress on this important issue. And hopefully fewer will resort to these speed levers in the future and these disproportionate borrowing terms would be history.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u72	Mr President! I am pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy took a very firm position on this. In the context of the referral debate, I particularly hoped that this ceiling would be addressed and looked at carefully, and that it would be reduced from the 30% that has been proposed. It seems that the quick-wipe business is becoming a Trojan horse in the money world, secretly coming in, conquering the life of its takers and taking control of it. I do not believe that this attractiveness and the possibility of taking speed levers, even this legislation, will lead to the so-called 'good control' that these disadvantages will be completely removed from society. I believe that, in the coming parliamentary term, if I continue my work here, this is one of the things that, according to these positions, will certainly have to be re-examined and thought about restricting advertising and the ease of access. I have even wondered for myself whether it would be a good thing to have such a quick-wipe register that if a person already has two quick-wipes, he would no longer have a third until the two have been paid off. This would oblige all fast-track companies to be registered and then they would have to follow this. This would be kind of like customer supervision, internal control, which would bring this matter under control once and for all. This could be one good method, but indeed congratulations on making this even stricter than the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u73	Mr President! I would say to Mr Laukkanen that the most important thing in this unanimous report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was just to drop the ceiling on the government proposal, which was 30%, to 20%. Of course, we also discussed the lower part of the committee, but we said that it is now possible to achieve this with a good consensus and yet it is a significant improvement on the current situation. The reason is, of course, that the creditor now has to assess and investigate the applicant's ability to pay more precisely, since the considerable interest rates are no longer sufficient to compensate for those credit losses in the same way that he has previously been able to do. That is why this drop from 30% to 20% was important, the most important proposals of this unanimous report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy therefore made six statements, within which there is also a question of supervision, which has already been mentioned here, that the preparation of the Financial Supervisory Authority, as soon as possible, would give sufficient and effective powers to monitor and sanction the rules of the game in this area as well. The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is therefore important, as Mr Sarkkinen has already referred to and which I will read once again: ‘The Council of State requires that a reasoned report be prepared by the Council of State on the need for and relevance to the legal and other measures required on the basis of the report. “ In that way, it is a rather important guideline for future work. When this proposal has otherwise been presented so thoroughly here, I would just like to end by saying something which is not, of course, related to the report, that it would be interesting to look at the links between these fast-track companies, for example, with the collection agencies, what kind of ownership structure it might have to deal with. There is room for investigative journalism here, and perhaps the Competition and Consumer Authority could do some research on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u74	Mr President! I remember that, after the quick-jump market came to Finland, on several occasions in this Chamber, Parliament has tried somehow to keep up with the next and the next stage, and probably ten years ago, for the first time, there was a bill in the form of a bill, where quick-vips and this marketing would have been banned altogether. And we are still fighting with these small steps in order to somehow keep the situation under control, and it seems that these companies will always come up with some sort of trick-or-treater or some kind of crooked way to sideline the legislation that we have decided on, so that the action can still continue with fame and success, with success. This has already been the case in the past, for example, by prohibiting the granting of nighttime quick-leases, so that not in the middle of the night, for example, when you come from a restaurant like this you can now take out a loan but that in any case it came into practice until the next day. This was still the idea that it was only for adults, not minors. At some point it was possible to regulate the interest rate so that it had to be disclosed, the total interest rate, for a year — when this market started, there was no need to tell anything, no cost or total interest. In other words, these small steps have been taken and I am therefore pleased that, contrary to the wishes of the ministry, the committee has also reduced the ceiling to 20% now and, at the same time, paid attention to these other costs, which must be clarified at the same time. It cannot be that the interest rate is 18% and then all other costs will be paid to the borrower for the same amount. The next steps, which, in part, have already been written down in this committee's report, are of course the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority. I do recall that the Financial Supervisory Authority has not been in any way keen in its own activities to have these ‘non-existent’ firms monitored for its own control,because there is a particularly wild market in addition to its normal banking and insurance activities. When there is no licence for that activity, other than a business license, i.e. they do not have a normal banking licence, it would require a larger renovation. Nevertheless, I strongly believe that this is what should be done. If a loan is given and people take interest, it is a banking activity, and the Financial Supervisory Authority should at least be able to monitor this activity. The other one that was also being paid attention in this debate is that there would be some sort of register or someone else who would be able to assess the total loan pool of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u79	Mr President! Indeed, these loans, known as quick loans, are one of the unimaginable peculiarities of Finnish lending, which, in my opinion, draws closer to the limits of lawlessness in many ways. The fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted a unanimous report on this issue, and the fact that the ceiling on interest rates is set at 20%, is an excellent thing. The committee was unanimous, and these positions of the committee, which have been well mentioned in the previous speeches, are quite proper and very worthy of support. When you look at this matter of quick vip at a slightly more general level, this must be addressed by the Finnish Parliament. This Parliament will no longer be able to do this any more than it is now. This report, which is now on this table, is a very good one, but a much harder one must be able to do so. These quick-juvenile companies are taking advantage of the situation, the position of a person in need. When on a computer at night or at night, at any time, he can take money from a quick-juvenile firm, is this person in a legal condition at the time of borrowing, or is there a situation in which this mental or physical situation of a person is brutally exploited by selling him a product whose size and quality he does not understand? This is something that Finland's laws must be able to address. Last week I was called by a son’s father, who himself apparently had to pay or help this young person to move forward in life when he had strayed into the quick - moving path. These quick-juvenile companies are brutally exploiting enforcement in this area, so they are, in a way, doing legal action in the grey area of the law, which then leads to the pathetic position of the debtor, a position that he will certainly not be able to cope with, and then this same quick-juvenile company is using the means of enforcement set up by society in the legal order to drive this person into even greater problems. This is not equal justice in any sense. This father told me that he had also been told by an enforcement officer that an easy solution to this issue would be to remove the possibility for these fast-track companies to claim these debts by way of enforcement. Of course, you can borrow money from another person whenever you want, and this would not be something to deny, of course, but such devices or, for example, computer contracts, where, on the night of Saturday and Sunday, you can borrow, for example, EUR 5000 without knowing what the interest rate is and how much it will cost and when you can normally pay it, you must be able to intervene so that you cannot grant loans in this way. I'm sure there are laws in this country. After all, we have had different door-to-door trades eradicated or other harmful trade practices prevented, and this is a procedure in which these unscrupulous quick-juice companies exploit people in a state of need, and which, at its worst, goes to the point where they do not even bring their own face to the public but are fleeing... Yet they have the protection of the law to take all the money away from this person and to place him in a position that he will never survive in his lifetime. So this phone call from the family man woke me up that this is an effective way. Let the next Parliament look at this way in which the exploitation of enforcement in this situation would be hindered by the fact that this quick-lean company, which has given the loan, would then be able to charge itself something else, so that it would create a situation in which it itself would have to collect its own debts, because if I were to visit someone on a summer holiday for a hundred dollars, it would probably not be going to court to collect it, but something else. Some other procedure must be made to ensure that such momentary impulses do not fully enjoy the protection of the law, as is the case with a bank loan, for example. After all, there are clear notes about how a bank loan when you have taken out has been searched for your property and whether the security is in order. If they're not, there's gotta be some guarantors. The same procedure must also be followed with regard to speed levers, precisely so that such quick-wipe companies are held responsible for using this system of enforcement of society, even though they themselves operate in at least a grey area of the law. I am not saying that they are illegal operators, but those who do not act ethically and on the principles of fair play in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u80	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what colleagues have to say and to worry about what these quick drinks in a person's life can do at their worst, which it can lead to at its worst. In general, people who have to rely — i.e. I use the words ‘have to rely on a ‘short-term’,because each interest rate levelincludes the desire to provide credit,the quick-lease companies offer credit —are those who have already madethe payment difficulties or no income,andthere is So in that sense it is generally also low-income people, young people, such as students, unemployed, perhaps even pensioners who cannot afford to buy those drugs when pensions are not enough, and then have to resort to this kind of quick-wipe, and it can really lead to the spiral that the quick-wipe, which is due, then has to pay with another quick-wipe, and this bike will go on spinning and soon they will have to be in the process of defecation then thousands and thousands of euros, and if something happens to be property, then it will be expropriated. But what Mr Sarkkinen said in his own speech should be developed in this society, for example, social credit, and it should be available for the unexpected expenses that families may suddenly incur: the washing machine is broken or something like that, the car repair must be quickly paid for. I myself wonder, of course, whether it is good to have a 30% reduction to 20%, but, in comparison with the loans still on the market, we are talking about very high interest rates. And, for example, on these search engines, of which Mr Paatero said that although we wanted to promote the ban on advertising, we did not have to put in Google as well as the ‘quick issues’, so first came the ‘loan between EUR 1000 and EUR 60000 right away’. And this goes on, and it goes on quite a long time before any such passage arises from there, so to speak, which I Googled with this google shark. So, first, these commercials from the fast-forward companies come out, and the right thing is not to say. In other words, I am in favour of an absolute ban on marketing, and this motion for a statement in the committee's report that there should be an in-depth analysis of whether this speed lever system is necessary and appropriate at all, is very much to be welcomed, and I hope that this will also be done immediately. And on this point, where did Mr Ihalainen quite rightly ask that what is the link between the collection agencies and these fast-track companies, let us hope that someone will take this up and do the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u81	Mr President! In one way or another, this fast-track legislation has, in my own parliamentary career, been on the table several times in this Chamber and in legislation — a number of legislative initiatives, which I myself have signed, and a number of petitions, a number of companies, and fortunately even practical measures to ensure, among other things, that blackmail has taken place during the last parliamentary term in connection with marketing. And now, of course, this report, which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has to do with this matter, has become — and I would stress it unanimously — so that there is a need for blackmail. It is good that these rules of the game are being created, tightened up, but I fully agree with the previous speakers that the work is still ongoing. The quick levers are too easy to take, and the people who take the quick levers are those who are usually already in financial trouble. It is, in a way, the cry of despair that people want to get funding for themselves and, in a way, these people who take it are in a lot of ways having to pay for it. Perhaps there is also thoughtlessness among them: when it is easy to get money, we do not think about paying it back at that point. But what do you want me to do? The legislation is, of course, this, which creates a framework for it, and the ceiling on interest rates is set at 20%, and so on. But I would like to ask how we can manage the people's own responsibility, their own awareness, their own financial management, how we can instill in people the fact that the euro should sometimes also be saved there, anticipate the own economy, not just here and now, on the limit of the next month, what is possible, and how, in general, the economy, the whole, can be managed, that the expenditure and revenue will be met in that own economy. That is why it is a good thing that the committee's presentations called for 3 to draw attention to the fact that there is now an obligation to prevent consumer debt problems, when this proposal goes through, to the next government. That is an extremely good thing. Another thing I would like to highlight: There is also the message from people that the banks are tight with their money. Banks are reliable sources of debt, but it is often difficult to obtain a loan if it is not guaranteed by its own guarantor or if it is not shown directly. This, of course, has also contributed to the fact that there has been a demand for these fast-start companies. Mr. Speaker! I support people's individual responsibility, but these marketing restrictions and this
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u82	Mr President! One more observation about this report. This second effort states: ‘The government requires that the State Council carefully evaluatesthe needs for the development of the necessary level of living costs of the debtor to The protection element in debt arrangements, the protection element in the enforcement, i.e. the money that is left to live per month, has long since been lagging behind the increase in the cost of living. This will feed you to take a quickie. Instead of going to the Guarantee Fund or going to debt advice — to avoid the shame of not surviving this current situation, even though you have reached the debt arrangement — these prompt payments are taken. This too small part of the protection has then become for many debtors yet this kind of last straw, that when properly there is a mess of things, the debt arrangement will also lapse. I would just like to point out that when a person tries to put his life in order, where a private person's debt arrangement is very important, so are these: Credit from the Guarantee Fund, which then includes this debt advice, which is to be received in it, should be developed and encouraged. And if I could make up my mind, I would almost say that we are going back to the old system, so that the credit will be obtained from the bank and it will carry out the financial carrying capacity analysis that every responsible bank is doing today, without asking for any legislation, that is to say, every bank wants to ensure that it gets back the money that it borrowed. On the other hand, the profits of the quick-lease companies are so high that the whole calculation mechanism is linked to the fact that they have calculated that this and so many credits can be missed and yet they are doing well. It is great that this is now being addressed, once again I say it — it could have been even more so, but this is a good direction. And these efforts are very well thought out, and I thank the committee for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u83	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today, and just as in the committee, so has the House, that although this law is good and it is progressing, it is not enough, but the essential thing is that the issues contained in these efforts are actually being taken forward during the next term of government and that this legislative work will continue and the work will continue. And when this industry is like this, it's always looking for new loopholes that it utilizes, so the legislator can never rest in peace, but always have to look at what regulation is needed to make this unhealthy quick-lease business not rampant. Many people here have said that they could have counted this ceiling below 20 already. I also agree, but here is a little point of view that when the government brings the proposal and then if it had gone even further down, then perhaps we should have given a new government proposal and impact assessments in it. In other words, this too was the subject of discussion in committee, but perhaps this will be the basis for careful legislation in this area. But hopefully it will be clarified and continued and the permitted ceiling will continue to be calculated. One way to reduce the whole of this fast-start business and these unhealthy costs, the whole of this unhealthy lending, would be to define the interest rate and the cost ceiling for the loan throughout its life cycle. In other words, instead of looking at the annual rate, let us look at the interest costs of the entire life cycle of the loan and define a sufficiently strict limit to them, because now there is a fear that when restrictions are imposed on this annual rate and the annual cost, then, in the worst case, these loan periods will increase and even be granted, so that, as in the case of the loan period, we will seek the return when it cannot be applied for in one year. So you really need to be awake and monitor the legal effects and, if necessary, really adjust this kind of loan to the entire life cycle of the absolute interest rate and the cost ceiling. Mr President! This is a very important social issue, and it is good that the whole of Parliament is behind this mission, that the fast-track business is being curbed, because this over-indebtedness and economic and debt problems are also linked to the employment objectives, these relate to the problem of the exclusion of our young people. Over-indebtedness and the speed shift can also lead to incentive traps and despair and thus have a very large social impact and also prevent an increase in the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u84	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence, PuVM 8/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u85	Mr President! This proposal, which now pays particular attention to defence and extends its concept and possibilities, is absolutely excellent. What I perhaps want to say and say this time relates to the situation of civil servants and those who have done their defence in civil service and, in particular, to the fact that there are very many people who have a very high will to defend the country. I would therefore have liked to see this matter discussed here too, namely that the concept of defence could also be extended to civil service, that there should be different elements in it, and that there should also be an extension to the service of women in defence of the country in which the country can be defended in a different way. It is, of course, an honour and privilege and an obligation for Finland to defend its own country, but in what way, it is the debate that I hope will take place a little more in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u86	Mr President! Voluntary defence is an important element in the Finnish defence system. It is very good and justified that it can also be done in a hobby after the time of war is no longer necessarily current. In this development, when the development of voluntary defence was started, there were different options and versions. I myself would have supported, and quite a few experts have supported, the version that has been developed to improve the current system. There are many good elements here, such as whether women are able to learn more about the activities of the Defence Forces through this and whether it can be a gateway here. I myself have constantly drawn attention to the fact, among other things, that I do not think there should be any kind of activity for people under the age of 18, which may be the same for some as refresher exercises or even count as refresher exercises. Our agreement on the rights of the child and its additional protocols do not allow this type of activity to exist for under 18 years of age. Now there has been some attempt to narrow it down, and I still hope that we children will not be engaged in military activities. A further legislative proposal on firearms legislation, including some of these conditions for the functioning of voluntary defence, remained a major issue at the end of the process. Now, let's see where it comes from or doesn't come all the way to this hall. Until recently, many organisations were quite critical of this reform. One aspect is that other voluntary national defence organisations may feel a little threatened if the activities of this one organisation are considered to be so massive that others may be less likely to be able to receive subsidies or to be trained, for example. Big criticism came to this sum, 6.5 million every year, which is according to this plan, which is now in the frame, directly away from other defence activities, i.e. refresher exercises, military training, off-road days, equipment and everything else. Of course, this should not be the case. That is why the committee has unanimously written here that unless we can secure something else through funding, this law will not be taken forward. I strongly support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u87	Mr President! When it comes to voluntary defence and training, we always have to go there to the beginning of the '90s. Until then, the Paris Peace Agreement prevented military training from being provided outside the Defence Forces or the Border Guard, and when the Soviet Union fell and the Paris Peace Agreement was no longer interpreted, these conditions also lapsed. Reservist organisations were feverishly thinking about how voluntary national defence training could be developed, and they set up MPK at the time. Since then, this became a non-profit association, the National Defence Training Association, which provides this training for the reservists. Its membership organisations include voluntary defence organisations, reserve agencies, as I recall, a total of 16, and they cooperate with the Ministry of Defence and other government-defined representatives in this administration. Voluntary defence is an important part of the Finnish defence system. I want to defend it very, very strongly. It is precisely the way to maintain and improve the capacity of each individual, each reservist, for those factors that give them field capability in the field. This also plays a major role in terms of the will to defend the country, which all in all is done by the reservist organisations. But when we talk about education itself, about what goes through the MPK, this is now becoming the biggest change of all that this bill will bring. So the role of MPK is changing very much. In practice, it goes under the Defence Forces in the area of military training and perhaps now changes more from individual training to training of troops. This will certainly bring a great deal of opportunities for the reservists, career paths, so to speak, that is, if you do not have the investment yourself, this training by the MPK will enable you to make an investment and to move forward in your career on the military side as well. So this is a good time. These are the challenges which Mr Paatero has mentioned, as we sort of face. EUR 6.5 million of additional funding is needed for this. I wouldn't be so negative about it myself. This EUR 6.5 million extra money must be agreed in the negotiations with the Government, and it must be taken forward. Nor am I in any way in favour of this leaving the framework of action, but there must be money for this otherwise. 6.5 million in total, however, compared to more than EUR 2.6 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u90	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 44/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u91	Mr President! ‘The Committee on Transport and Communications sees strong This is how we begin our report, and it sums up a lot. Above all, in this present digital society, it is a necessity, as in all other matters, to prove that you are who you are, so that you are entitled to the services that you receive with it, and to all other things. So identification is an extremely important part of the digital society. This trust network, which we are supposed to be based on, has started very slowly, and now there have been relatively bold and big steps, ‘strong’ as stated in the report,in order to ensure that the network operates at the last and last start-up. In particular, this price regulation, which is involved here, has been supported, but has also been opposed, and this has actually taken place throughout the existence of this trust network. Now it is hoped that this will move forward. There are problems and challenges here, but there is also much positive coming. In other words, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has looked at these from that sector and it still needs to be followed up. These visions of the future never... As has been discussed today in the Chamber, it is very difficult to see where the country is going, so this regulation on the maximum price for initial recognition is only valid for a period of two years, and now we have to monitor where this market is going, where it is going, and the Agency has an obligation to assess the level of price regulation annually. This action is also based on the fact that the various actors are able to conclude an agreement with each other, and it is also now being given a boost. In other words, there is a contractual obligation here, and there is a deadline here, and this includes the requirements of reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. All in all, the government's proposal in many forms is trying to influence the fact that this trust network is finally being created. Today, earlier in the second debate, there has been this economic situation, that not everyone has been able to identify themselves so easily in e-services. This difficulty and these inequalities that may have arisen from this lack of identification need to be taken into account, and this needs to be consistent and non-discriminatory, absolutely so that Finnish citizens, and why not other people in the country, and companies also have access to and use the services of society. This still requires that everyone has a wide range of activities at their disposal, and this can lead to the creation of a different market in e-commerce. As regards this rate of development, it is said that it needs to be done through cooperation, but also that it needs to be monitored, and there is also concern that the supervisory authority has sufficient resources and expertise to ensure that this is properly monitored, so that this is actually progressing, so that at least this is not caught up with the resources of the supervising authority. In other words, this is a complex issue in which there have been supporters in the proposal, but also those who have not been so fond of it, but this is actually speeding up the creation of a network of confidence, and despite the difficulty, this report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u92	Mr President! One of the key, major issues in the digital society is how we can secure traffic in that virtual world, especially when it contains important routes for us in which our economy is directly involved in the digital network. So that is why the central part of this proposal is that the whole process is instilled in strong identification. As is currently the case in social media, for example, it is not possible to identify yourself on a relatively light basis and with a light identification label, but this proposal stresses that strong identification is a key condition for increasing digital functions in society. Citizens must be able to experience security when their most sensitive information is in an invisible world and a potential cyber-threat. This is something that must be in the ongoing debate in society, because the digital world is developing so fast that it would actually wish there were such a wide-ranging social debate about how I could secure my own digital track. Many experts already say that there is no such thing as a secure digital world and you will be left with a mark that you will never be able to change again, you will not be able to remove. This makes one wonder what kind of information we give about ourselves at any time in that invisible network. That is why this strong identification, and yet by means that make this strong identification even stronger, must be developed and a network system that would be more secure than the present one. It might even be a good thing for state administration to have its own online world. We have different speed-based systems, currently the 4G most used, then comes 5G. What if one of these security G-versions were to come with significant security issues related to the state, i.e. fully own digital lanes? Maybe there are, I don't know the industry that well, but I don't think there is. These should be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u93	Mr President! With enthusiasm for what Mr Laukkanen has said, I would just like to say that this digital world and this sure-to-go online identification as a user of some kind of service, for example, even if it is now to study its own health data, a prescription from the doctor, whether everything went right or whether X-rays had anything to do with it. That's where they write the test results on their own database. But it is quite clear that, when this digital world develops — one of the favorite aspects of today's public debate is the hair licking of a Chinese company producing different digital devices and similar operators in the United States, that someone's devices are safer than others, or whether they are even used for espionage on information networks, in this 4G, which is currently being used for wireless communications, and 5G is coming — it is quite certain that the faster the transmission speeds are going, the greater the risk will be taken. It is said that in banking and any economic activity there is an opportunity to intervene and to collect data illegally increasing all the time. The only thing I can say about this is that the development of different systems must be the first thing, and it should be remembered, however, that, in terms of viruses and malware, for example, no operator or entrepreneur who protects his own data and the interests of his company cannot act until that virus has been found, until that virus control programme can be implemented, so that, in a way, this world, which is cheating, goes a little ahead and then a control programme is put in place for it. To do that we just have to get used to that such secure identification systems need to be developed. After all, Estonia has gone a long way. You probably noticed that now that there were parliamentary elections in Estonia, there were very many people who voted online. Whether it's good or bad, it's better to ask, but I've always been a supporter of this classic method, because it's known to be a very certain system that can't be hacked.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u94	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 35/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u95	Mr President! This proposal for a fund-raising law replaces the old fund-raising law entirely. Efforts were already being made to reform the fund-raising law during the last term of government, when the then Minister for the Interior, Päivi Räsänen, took it vigorously forward. Unfortunately, at the very last met, it fell from the opposition of the Social Democrats to a technical point, which was why it could not be taken forward. Today, however, we have before us a report from the Administrative Committee, which is a careful work and a unanimous report. A few things that are central to this: First of all, increasing confidence in the collection of funds is a vital part and objective of this proposal, that is, the confidence that when money is raised, the money will also be used for the purpose for which it has been collected. With this law, this becomes clearer, accountability becomes clearer, reporting becomes clearer and the frameworks of the police administration also become clearer. Then the time limit for money collection permits will be abolished and will become valid for an indefinite period. However, the reporting remains annual and is specific to the calendar year. This is a very important reform because these money collection permits have been issued for one year, they have been issued for two years or three years, sometimes even five years, but they have always had to be applied for again, and that procedure is usually quite heavy, not as easy as it is supposed to be. This will now be removed, while the role of reporting will now be given greater prominence here and the role of reporting will be strengthened. The new element is the so-called small collection, EUR 10000, in which the collection period is three months, and two of these collections can be arranged per year. The ease of this new small collection is that it is sufficient to notify the local police department and then, in five days' time, you will receive this small-scale collection permit if the police consider that there are conditions. Then perhaps the most important reform here is the equalisation of congregational communities, especially in connection with the collection of collections in connection with church service. To date, only the Lutheran church, the Orthodox Church, and the community organized into a church community have been able to collect collections in the service without a fund-raising permit. This has caused a great deal of confusion in some 800 other association - based congregations that suddenly need a fund - raising permit for their 100 - year church - service tradition, which has been involved in collecting collections. This has been the case for a long time in the law, but the Police Government has not made any information on this matter, but has taken the very unanimous view that the fund-raising community itself should monitor itself. Well, I understand this principle from a certain point of view, but I cannot possibly understand it from the point of view that the collection of its euro by any human being in the service would be subject to a fund-raising permit from that community. This has been quite a serious discussion with the police administration about these interpretations of the police administration and how they have followed this. Mr President! So it is wonderful that now all congregational communities are on the same line and all association - based congregations can collect collections without a fund-raising permit after the entry into force of this law. By the way, coming into force in that proposal does not show, the original proposal says that during the autumn. I wonder why this is not mentioned in that report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs. On the fifth point, I would like to mention the clarification of the general interest. This importance of general interest in the Community has also been the subject of serious discussions with the police administration, even through the law, so that the police authorities have held that, for example, the salary or administrative costs of a pastor in a small association-based congregation are not covered by public interest activities. However, the Turku Administrative Court dealt with this matter a few years ago and stated that this pastor’s salary and the administration costs of the church are equally covered by the activities of the public benefit association, which was an excellent solution. This clarification of the general interest was also an important part of this reform of the fund-raising law. I believe and know that this fund-raising law will clarify the activities of many associations and will also bring peace to parish communities so that there is no longer any need to fear that the authority will intervene in the collections collected in connection with the service. Mr President! This show should have been done a long time ago. It is good that it is now at hand, and it is good that it is unanimous. And when the committee made an addition to this precisely in relation to the increase in confidence, I consider them to be excellent additions. I think that Finnish society deserves it — because we have this kind of culture of giving — that the money that is collected is spent on where they are collected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u96	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u97	Mr President! I took this initiative because I came across a situation in which a person with a trade-nominal degree in the background worked very irregularly, part-time, and then had a permanent but part-time employment because of his good language skills and was unable to work full-time as a result. As a result, the person concerned applied for further studies — a family member, a mother of two young children — to study as a special teacher in another city more than 200 kilometres away. The Finnish Labour Service took a positive view of this self-employed study, and so did his employer, who had kept him in part-time employment for a long time, precisely because of his strong knowledge of the Russian language, and the employer and the person in question agreed that since this young lady is studying for weeks in another place, the employer would be happy to keep him seven hours a month, whenever necessary, in these jobs where she had been. So he had received a positive decision from the Labour Administration, but then there was a problem, because the lady had moved, had been self-initiative because of this change of employment and thus reduced his working hours and, of course, for justified reasons, could not, if he was on a study trip of more than 200 kilometres, work as much as before, then this lady was charged the unemployment allowance back for one month, which resulted in his case being dealt with throughout the autumn, that is, in practice, he lost his unemployment allowance for four months because of this seven hours. I then had this debate with the officials of the Ministry of Employment, and this initiative has now been prepared together with them. In principle, as we know that knowledge will become more important and the labour market will change, we must do everything we can to support lifelong learning and enable people to obtain a qualification in another place as well as possibly working. Especially when it comes to family people — and I know the situation of families with children that the poverty of families with children is great — we should support people in such situations to study. That is why I took this initiative in law, and this is precisely because unemployment benefit for the transition to self-study has ensured that the person's employment plan is up-to-date, especially if the person has worked part-time and thus managed to reconcile unemployment benefit before starting his or her own studies. There is a risk that the termination of part-time work or the reduction in hours worked will result in the interpretation that a person is assigned a qualifying period, thus preventing self-study. One such situation may arise if the place of part-time work and the place of study are distant from each other. In the case of a valid reason and when a person acts in accordance with his or her employment plan, he or she should not be denied unemployment benefit even if his or her hours of work are reduced, but his or her labour market status improves in the overall assessment, for example through self-study. It is important to remove obstacles to improving the labour market position of citizens. It is clear that our social security system needs a comprehensive reform to ensure seamless coordination and smoother employment and training. On those grounds, I propose that Parliament adopt the Act amending Chapter 10, Section 4, and Chapter 11, Section 4, of the Unemployment Protection Act by amending Chapter 10, Section 4, paragraph 2, and Chapter 11, Section 4, paragraph 3, as they stand, Chapter 10, Section 4, paragraph 2, and Chapter 11, paragraph 3, of the Act. In this regard, I would suggest that these articles will come to the next government in the future, and I hope that we can work together to improve whether we can say, lifelong learning and training of people, and thus better meet the needs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u98	Mr President! Representative Anneli Kiljunen has made an important and good bill, and she was there to justify the background to her initiative. It is very important that education and work be coordinated and that barriers to improving labour market status are dismantled. Education improves the labour market position of citizens, and it will also be the key to working life there after one career ends, one door closes — another opens, and education opens them up. Someone once said that today a person needs three different professions in order to be able to participate throughout his working life in working life, and surely that is the case. The professions are changing, job descriptions are changing and society is moving forward in that way, so a very well-supported bill. I hope that the next government will then take note of this important legislative initiative by Anneli Kiljunen and take action to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u99	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u100	Mr President! This bill relates to the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act. The purpose of this initiative is to give the worker the right to leave his/her work for informal care and to be suspended for a limited period for the special care of the member of his/her family or any other person close to him/her. I made this bill as early as 2016. I also put a written question on it then, but now I decided that now is the time to leave this too. In the current legislation, a family carer refers to a family member or other close person who has entered into a family care contract. An informal care agreement refers to a contract of assignment between the carer and the municipality responsible for organising care for the organisation of informal care. For example, when a worker’s family member or close to him becomes ill suddenly and seriously, hospitalisation or hospice is required. This is where I told you a little bit about what the bill is all about. We're talking about self-loathing, a family carer's deal. The need for family carers is constantly growing. More and more relatives hope to be a family carer at some point in their lives or otherwise participate in the care of the family member. There is also an attempt to change the structure of services in such a way that care for the elderly, the long-term sick and the disabled is increasingly directed at the home environment and that it is possible to do so there. The aim of the Government’s leading project on the development of informal care and family care has been to improve the access of family carers to a health check and to receive guidance and advice in the demanding work of a family carer. According to a provision added to the Employment Contracts Act in 2011, the employer must endeavour to organise the work so that the employee can stay for a fixed period to care for the family member or any other person close to him. In this case, the employer and the employee agree on the duration of the leave and other arrangements, and this is in Article 7a of the Employment Contracts Act. However, this provision is not being implemented effectively enough, as its existence is not known and demanding family and family care work is often carried out in conjunction with its own work. Thus, the current Employment Contracts Act allows for absence in order to care for a loved one, but does not oblige the employer to give such leave. This is the background to my bill: the current law allows a person to stay and care for a loved one, but does not oblige the employer to give such a leave. In 2016, I asked the Minister for Basic Services a written question specifically regarding the Employment Contracts Act in the case of selfishatajuus. I asked whether the legislation should be developed in such a way that the worker would always be entitled to leave for the care of a relative and of a family member or other family member. The response said that the flexibility allowed by the law was very limited and that information should be increased for both employers and workers. The answer also stated that working is of course of economic importance because informal care support is, as a rule, so small that it does not correspond to wage income. It is appropriate to improve the status of carers and family members or those who temporarily care for them. Combining work and care is often a challenge and many people have to make work-related concessions due to care responsibilities, for example by reducing working hours, refusing new tasks or even commuting. The purpose of the bill is therefore to enable the worker to take care of his/her loved ones and to increase the opportunities to participate in the implementation of human and valuable family care. The reduction of long-term care facilities has led to the repatriation of elderly people who are increasingly unfit for home care. This bill is also intended as a sign that the government is now picking up what has been done. Establishments have been reduced, the more unfit are in their homes and the loved ones are unable and unable to take care of them because they are not entitled to leave their work during informal care. The dismantling of facilities has been systematic in our society, and it has been from one government to another. According to the 2019 central government budget, institutional care positions have been reduced from 2014 to 3,9 per cent of the elderly aged 80 or over in 2014, so they are estimated to be only 1.5 per cent in 2019, which means that this number has halved. This means that an increasing number of older people are being treated for home care or are otherwise elderly at home. The situation of home care in Finland, on the other hand, continues to rise with concern, as it has not received sufficient resources from medical staff. When an elderly person is not granted 24-hour care, the equation is also impossible for the elderly to cope with at home, and the result is that more relatives care for their loved ones, but the participation of a working person in the care of their loved ones is often very difficult. In the middle of a working day there may be a need to look at the situation of a loved one at his home, to take part in basic care tasks, to take a loved one to a doctor or to rehabilitation, or to spend time with a lonely loved one. Also, a loved one who is terminally ill and in hospice often faces situations in which he wishes to be close to his loved one, but this may not be possible because of work and working hours. It is therefore very important that, in these circumstances, the worker has the right to remain in his or her work as a family carer or otherwise be absent for the special care of a family member or other person close to him. Mr President! The purpose of this bill is also to send the message to companies, entrepreneurs, employers that workers are often between wood and bark. It is not an employee's fault that there are informal care situations, but I see very strongly that the government's efforts to reduce care facilities for elderly people give a clear signal that people close to them should be more involved in the care of their relatives. That is why workers living in peak years are under great pressure as to how these things are organised. Moreover, as a reminder that the failure of Kela taxis — that taxi does not come when an elderly person calls and asks to be admitted to rehabilitation or care — means that the employee leaves the office to take his family. These are also familiar situations for myself personally. We're here to see what's going on here. So I know what I'm talking about. The work of carers is extremely important. It is important to give it opportunities and incentives. It must be possible to reconcile work, family life and family care. The legislative amendment proposed in this bill aims to increase humanity and understanding of the different life situations of citizens. It is also good to have a debate on the adequacy of informal care support in connection with the examination of the bill. The minimum amount of care allowance for informal care allowance for 2019 is EUR 399.91 per month and the maximum amount is EUR 799.81 per month. Support for informal care should also ensure financial well-being during informal care, but at present the amount of support is very low. Consideration should be given to the fact that informal care support should be tax-free. There has also been a citizens' initiative on this issue, in which it has been suggested that, in the event of an employee's absence from work, this leave would not be unpaid but would also be paid, and it is also one of the debates that we need to have. The intention is certainly not to make the situation worse for employers or entrepreneurs, but to send them a message from this Parliament that family carers and workers are often in very difficult situations. What do you do when your mother waits at home? What do you do when a father needs to see a doctor in a lonely home? The government does not provide care places, home care is inadequate. Then it is our job, daughters, sons, loved ones, to care for loved ones, and that is the way it should be, and this should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u101	Madam President! I am, however, very much in favour of Mrs Juvose's bill. I hope next parliamentary term this will be dealt with. Let me give you an example of a mother whose child became ill with cancer, incurable cancer, and each mother will understand how to do it, whether to continue working or to be with the child. Unfortunately, this mother could not choose both to be alongside her child and still keep her job, but lost her job. He did not get the chance to be able to take care of and be with his child. And this bill allows that in this kind of informal care situation can be maintained at the workplace that they do not have to like inhumane fates to experience still alongside its heavy loss, which is related to the situation. Madam President! Of course, it must also be acknowledged that during this parliamentary term, when the reform of social security has been turned over, the improvement of the status of carers was completely out of the question. The government does not get a single point from me about improving the status of family carers, because it has not been done. In the run-up to the last election, it was promised that the criteria would be harmonised with regard to the payment of informal care, that support services would be improved and that these days would also be granted, but this has not happened. And, indeed, one major concern is the decline in these sites. In other words, our elderly people, the elderly, the disabled, the future of their care, if they cannot be guaranteed the place of establishment, I suppose that good care for them in all situations should be possible. And yes, as a daughter, I also wonder that when the day comes that my own parents need family care, how can it be made possible, how is it economically possible, humanly possible. And yes, society, which saves a huge amount of money in it, should also have incentives to do so, so that these situations can be managed humanely in families, because everyone in general wants to be present and involved, if possible. In other words, this initiative is good and worthy of support, and it is hoped that this employment contract law will then be introduced immediately at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and that the government programme will already record the total reform of this informal care and the steps taken to improve it and how different family care situations will be taken into account in future legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u102	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Hänninen, for your good speech. Indeed, the current Employment Contracts Act makes it possible to take care of someone close to him, but does not oblige him to do so, and these are the very things he encounters at the workplace and, in the worst case, the worker is forced to resign because he is unable to keep it in his job. There will be different situations in life, and the purpose of this bill is to ensure that the worker remains in employment and that he is able to obtain a free family care contract for the duration of his or her family care contract, or if there is a sudden illness or hospice situation, he or she may be present. I believe that there are fewer employers in Finland who would not try to make this flexibility. The Finnish employer is good, the Finnish entrepreneur is fair, and surely we always think through the heart of these things, but despite the fact that there are situations that such free people are not possible. That is precisely why I see that it would not be any harm if it were even more rigorously recorded here in our Finnish legislation, and that is precisely what you raised, for example, by Mrs Hänninen. More criteria for informal care should have been put on the line at the same time. It should have been possible to make more openings in Parliament on the remuneration of carers, such as whether it should be tax-free. That was already the case during the previous term of the government in the study of whether it should be tax-free. There's a lot of things we could... As are the statutory holidays for carers, which are often very difficult to achieve. As well as the fact that when a family carer takes it to a short - term care place, the care place should not be a mere detention, but should be a quality and good care so that the family carer can really recover during the few days off from that often very heavy family care work. Indeed, I would like Finnish entrepreneurs to take up this issue and say out loud whether there has been a problem with the government's activities now, with fewer places for institutions, less places for care, and when very sick elderly people go to the emergency room when there are problems, they return boomerangina to their own home, and then there are very sick people on the back of the night. What's wrong with this government line? On the one hand, they want to support entrepreneurship and say that incentives for entrepreneurship should be dismantled, but on the other hand, they make it difficult for their employees to work there because they are in need when they sometimes have to take care of the elderly. By the way, there are a lot of people who are doing their job without any reward for that informal work. So in that sense I see that a huge portfolio of important things is going to be transferred to the next government. We have to put things in order then, and this is the beginning and the kickball that I will throw to the next government. I'm honored to be a nurse.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u103	Madam President! Just a little bit more. That is what I am thinking in my mind — when we often discuss these costs of institutional care and know that subsidised service housing can cost EUR 4000 a month, even more — that there would be quite a saving for society if we could at least allow family care in those circumstances, if that were possible and if the family wanted to do so. But one more example. When our Children group met with family carers who cared for their disabled child at home, not exactly, but almost 100% of them are women. This is also an issue of equality, which is often forgotten in these informal care situations. Of course, there are also sides and others on the side of the elderly, so that there is a man as a family carer quite often, but especially when it comes to disabled children and young people who are being treated at home, it is often a mother who stays there to take care of, and then it may put together a wide range of economic and social situations with regard to this carer. So you may not be able to engage in a hobby, not meet friends, is well tied to the 24/7 treatment situation. In that sense, it would also be necessary to enable part-time work without affecting its overall income. It was quite shocking to me to hear — I did not know that this could be the case, but it is true — that family care is being cut from the time the child is in basic education in school, that it is no longer considered to be a family carer, because he is not at home to be cared for at that time. But we do have compulsory education in Finland, and I suppose now primary school belongs to that disabled child too, so that I thought it was pretty special. Here too, if the extension period comes — or whoever is here in the next parliamentary term — I hope that we will take this up and make the necessary legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u104	Madam President! We are now talking about the situation of family carers in general and about what small things we can do in everyday life to make them feel better and refresh them. Years ago, as a city councilman in Espoo, I took the initiative to give family carers free sports, sports and swimming services, the so-called family carers' Sport Card. It was precisely to bring family carers of different ages, not only elderly people, we also talk about young parents, but at the same time, so that they have the right and the opportunity to go swimming when they experience it, or to go to the gym, to the various sports sessions organised by the city. It took a few years for that initiative to go through, but it finally went through. Now we have a sports card for family carers in Espoo, and I have made budget initiatives and policy initiatives in connection with this issue here in Parliament. I would hope that other municipalities, cities, too, will take this as their own. I have also encouraged representatives to take to your own councils such different good initiatives, because we talk about such small amounts of money, compared to how great the human joy and benefits of these kind of small everyday things are. Yes, it's highly recommendable. They don't have to be big things to be a family nurse. The understanding and the enhancement of the human good that comes when we understand and enable the voice of the carer to be heard and he also gets rest and support when he needs — in my opinion, it is the key to the fact that more and more Finns want to act as a carer. I can also see the current situation of the way in which care for the elderly has emerged and the infinite disadvantages and abuse there are, some even in the police investigation, so that Finns are afraid of ageing and old age. When you think of it as a matter of fact, do you want your own loved one to end up in treatment, where the treatment is not necessarily good, more and more people are wondering that I will remain a family nurse. It is also a step away from the cartwheel, the squirrel wheel where you wrestle in working life, and the running, the throttle at the bottom and the despair of how the aged person is doing in his home. Perhaps these words: I do not remember that there has ever been such an empty Chamber when I speak. Thank you, Mr Hänninen, I have discussed with you before, among other things, the military accident and service-related law together, but we are both stronger than alone, and I think that we will move forward together then, at least in the background, so that things can move forward. Thank you so much for being here to talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u105	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u106	Madam President! I think, however, that this is another of the initiatives that deserve to be mentioned in this Chamber. In other words, the main content of the initiative is that it is proposed in the Child Welfare Act that a social worker responsible for matters relating to the child should have no more than 25 children. At the moment, there is a crying shortage of social workers. The number of children who have been taken out of care, placed outside the home, has been growing considerably, and one social worker may have as many as 60 to 100 children as a client, so one can only ask how well a social worker has time for each child — far too many for one social worker. Personally, as a municipal decision-maker, I have also noticed that social workers are not even available to hire, so we try to recruit, but for some reason they are very difficult to obtain, which means that there are open places. It is also probably partly due to the fact that this work is perceived to be very burdensome and precisely because there is so much work for one social worker. According to the report, the opinion of the Parliamentary Assistant Ombudsman has also been raised that a large number of client families responsible for social workers also have a serious impact on the supervision of foster care places. This too needs to be highlighted. So now that we have talked a lot about these services for the elderly and about their lack of supervision, there are also shortcomings in the supervision of these care centres. Hopefully, in the next parliamentary term, this too will finally be put in order and this Child Welfare Act will be amended so that there can be no more than 25 customers per social worker.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-04-ps-169.u107	Madam President! This bill by Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto is extremely important and brings the situation of children to our attention. We have talked a lot about the elderly and the elderly, but indeed a social worker can have as many as 60 to 100 children at a time as a customer. I mean, this is an outrageous amount. I can't believe this. We are talking about children, about those whose attention and understanding of their affairs is extremely important and multifaceted. It's a huge responsibility. The responsibility is so great that one might imagine that a social worker can’t sleep in it at night when he wonders how he will do his job so that he will certainly be well done. Aulikki Kananoja, a Senior Social Counsellor, has made a report on the direction and recommendations of child welfare development in 2019. In addition to the high number of customers, he pays attention to the high turnover of social workers, the lack of replacements and the lack of organisation and management of work. And this Kananoja report also highlights the concern of child welfare social workers that the burden of work caused by a large number of customers does not provide opportunities to do this work in accordance with the ethical principles of the profession and the customer relationship that is important for the success of social work suffers from a lack of time. And this also makes it difficult to build trust between the customer and the professional. Mr President! Sometimes I feel that society’s priorities and values are just like a pine tree when you think: We forget our old people, we forget them in institutions, we forget the number of adequate nurses, the amount of care they give. We also forget children and child welfare, and somehow it feels like we have to build that future and think that they are the adults of our future. We should do something about this and see that not only hard values, but also soft values. And it has also been good to read that the capital region has also started to pay attention to the employment of social workers. And it is very important that we talk about wage policy when we attract good, skilled professionals to do this important work. Wage policy: often they are women, a low-income woman is now a low-income retired woman aged, and then, even older, she is the one to whom society should provide the services. In other words, wage policy is also at the heart of the debate on how to get good medical staff in hospitals, care for the elderly, kindergartens, child protection and social work.
