ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Government Communication of 6 June 2019 on the Government Programme of Prime Minister Antti Rinte. The preliminary statements shall be made in the order of the group. At the end of the examination of the Communication, a vote of confidence will be held by the Government. Parliament may decide to refer the matter to a committee which must submit a proposal for a Parliament decision. The debate will continue according to the speeches that have been asked, and then at some point, when it appears to be so, a debate will be opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u2	Mr President! This government program before us is in many ways the beginning of a new one. Yesterday I listened nicely to ten hours of speeches in this Chamber and the slanders of the opposition that there were doubts about the need for money and the intimidation of the Finns with tax disciplines. At the same time, I saw before me a programme which, in my opinion, is ambitious and responds to many of the current challenges. The opposition is right that this government programme would not be possible without economic discipline and spectacular employment developments in the previous period. However, there is an urgent need for investment in basics. Sustainable economic growth cannot be built on the bomb of non-participation, and there will be no workers if there is no work capacity. Now is the time to strengthen the foundations, to get everyone in Finland involved. I would miss this hall and this house especially for the faith in the future and the courage to help Finns and Finland move forward. There were also many types of debate about the government's name yesterday. Downtown left is my favorite. However, like Mr Jokinen and Mr Laiho, it is not worth calling this a socialist government even after a night of good sleep, because we were concerned that the taxation of entrepreneurs and ownership would not rise, that the entrepreneurial reduction would remain and that Finland’s public finances would be in balance in 2023. I am prepared to prioritise the objectives at that point if the economic indicators are not met, for example, in the wake of the world economy that has been thrown here, because the debt does not make the poor rich. However, I firmly believe and I think that the whole of this 200-year-old Parliament would need to believe that these employment targets, which are set at 75% of the government programme, will be fulfilled and that 60,000 new jobs will be created in Finland. The mere promotion of local reconciliation, as recorded in the Government Programme, brings half of that objective, according to estimates. Despite the opposition's intimidation yesterday, we do not raise taxes on earned income — workers, do not be afraid. I said that this government programme is the beginning of a new one because the government programme under discussion is built on man and knowledge at the heart of it. This thinking is easy to support as a centre person, because the overgeneration is precisely the value on which we have built. In Häme, the training, competence and vitality efforts of the Government Programme, such as the extension of the MAL agreements to Lahti, Jyväskylä and Kuopio, as well as the construction of the main track and its links, have also been greatly praised. In terms of regional policy, this government programme is sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u9	Yes, thank you. — Let us remember yesterday’s deadline today, five minutes, and also the fact that we address our fellow Members, such as “Deputy ” Orpo. Congressman Wrist shows you how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u10	Mr President! Yesterday, the representatives of our group have made a laudable statement about the incredibleness of the government programme. On the other hand, representatives of the government parties have made very confusing speeches. We have just heard one from Mr Kemp. I'm gonna start over. I'm gonna start over. I'm gonna start over. I'm gonna start over. The birth rate in Finland has continued to decline for ten years. This year, the number of babies can collapse to up to 45,000. Babylessness is a common challenge for all Western nations. On the other hand, families with babies are a crucial factor in the future for all of us, a resource that needs to be well cared for. Well, of course, the government has understood this challenge of babylessness and has set itself the goal of promoting the child and family friendliness of our country. The government wants to support people towards the number of babies it wants, strengthen the well-being of families with children and reduce the poverty of families with children. The government's objectives are very good, but it is regrettable that they are in some places very far from economic realism and also from everyday life. I don't know if this government program has been made somehow alienated from everyday life. The goals of reducing poverty in families with children and increasing children with children are reflected in a strange light when you read the climate leadership goals of the Government Programme. The government makes it clear that it costs more than ever to support a family. Having children is an anti-climate act. The message of the Government Programme is that Finnish families are consuming, polluting units that should not be set up. If we really want more Finnish babies, we need to reduce the poverty of families with children. [Department: Can you specify? ] The government is pushing the Finns into distress. We do not have the money for these climate-friendly changes. Not everyone can buy carbon-neutral apartments and electric cars. Now that we are following this economic situation, it is quite clear that we will have no chance of moving forward with children's affairs or increasing childbirth in general if we do not act child-friendly at all levels. [Interjections— Requests for reply ] Mr President! If we really want more babies, if we really want healthy families, we have to stop the increase in living costs. You know very well that this government programme is not economic realistic. There's no point denying this. In Finland, therefore, it is necessary to prevent rising costs of living and the availability of services for families with children must be ensured. But not everything is expensive and not everything pays. I will give the government and all the representatives here in the Chamber a couple of absolutely free advice and instructions that we could all move forward: Firstly, Finland is the best country in the world. We need to highlight the facts relating to the acquisition of babies, which relate specifically to this country. Finland is one of the best countries to give birth, care, raise and train children. Apart from a few other countries in the world, Finland has the lowest number of maternal deaths in the world. In addition, Finland is the country where the welfare of mothers and children is the second best in the world. Let's bring up these good things. Let's not scare people, let's not scare the kids by the fact that things are going wrong here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u11	This speech caused or could it not be said that there was enough movement here to begin the debate, but before that, let us take Mr Schoolman. And then there's the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u12	Mr President! Today is the official Helsinki Day, so I read the Government Programme from the perspective of the people of Helsinki. Unfortunately, it seems that the people of Helsinki are getting little more than the role of an even bigger payer during this parliamentary term. The worst of all is the regional reform planned by the government. We do not want a new level of government between municipalities and the state. It's unnecessary and expensive. Social and health services should be promoted on the municipal base. It is a pity that the government prefers to exaggerate bureaucracy rather than improve the services of Finns. In addition, the government seems to be neglecting the importance of private services in the Finnish nursing field. For example, if we were to increase the provision of service vouchers to citizens as an alternative to a public service provider, we would quickly and easily improve access to health services for citizens. At the same time, we would shorten the queues of public health centres, which would also improve their availability. That would make it easier for people who want to visit the municipal health centre to have a doctor’s appointment. As regards the Government Programme's policy on binding minimum measurements of care staff in 24-hour care units, it is already being implemented in Helsinki as a calculated dimension. It's just hard to find more nursing staff when they're in big trouble. Hopefully, the government will soon tell the municipalities what it intends to arrange for more nurses in the municipalities. As the population ages, it is clear that services need to be developed to meet people's needs. I am concerned that home care for the elderly will suffer from government staffing plans if the government populistly targets nurses specifically for 24-hour care, because it is spoken of so prominently in public. However, all of us here know that in reality, by far the majority of the elderly are covered by home care, and there is a much greater shortage of workers, that is to say, additional care resources should primarily be allocated to home care. In Helsinki, more staff would also be employed in child protection and day care centres if there were to be workers willing to work, so I expect concrete measures from the government to alleviate the shortage of staff on that side as well. There's a bright spot in the government program. We Helsinki residents interpret the Government's health assurances in such a way that the Government has promised Helsinki health centres more than 100 new doctors. In fact, if 1,000 new doctors have been promised in the whole country, it will mean 120 new doctors relative to the Helsinki population. Mr President, we are excited about this and we are waiting for new doctors to be impatient. We have already had major difficulties recruiting new doctors at the health centre. I expect the government to stick to this promise, and I expect the government to tell us as soon as possible when the new doctors will arrive. If they don't come, we'll be disappointed. Mr President! Helsinki carried out a small-scale family leave reform in the winter when the city decided that the municipal allowance for home care allowance would be removed from all the oldest children in home care, and in return we increased the number of day-care places. Many representatives of the government parties and even the minister were involved. The goal was to get children from immigrant families in particular into day care to learn Finnish and thus in-tegrate better into Finnish society. It is very important in promoting educational equality and combating exclusion. The money will not be enough for the government to do everything, and then we must prioritize and prioritise. I believe that it would be far more important to invest in early childhood education than in the second-degree freeness set out in the Government Programme. This would be important for preventing the exclusion of young people and for equality in education and for preventing early school leavers. I would like the government to be able to tell us what you intend to do to improve the position of these young people at risk of exclusion, particularly those with immigrant backgrounds. Finally, I would like to express my regret that there is obviously no funding for the Pisara track or the new design museum in the Government Programme. It is a pity, because Uusimaa is the engine of the entire Finnish economy, and I would like to see it taken care of. So the problems of the big cities have now been ignored in the government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u13	Thank you, and let's go to that debut. You can get a debatable address by pressing the button V, such as the “answer ” to stand up. — — — — Congressman Salmon will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u14	Mr President! Mr Ranne did make an interesting speech, and one might say that he was very financial with the truth as regards this content of the government programme. When it comes to family matters, yes, this government and this government program are very good, especially for families with children. For a long time, child supplements will be raised — not from all but from those families that are the most vulnerable and need support. Another important point here is that there should be a reform of the family leave system, which will be carried out on family terms. It is done on the conditions and welfare of families and children, not on the basis of other motives for this reform. But as such, I think it is very important and I appreciate the fact that Mrs Ranne has raised the issue of families with children and their well-being and also the collapse of the birth rate. This theme is very important, and it is worth presenting here. But it's also worth exploring the government program. I would like to conclude by saying that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u15	Mr President! When you follow this discussion, it is rather confusing to hear different views about this government program and its interpretation. Reminds me of that young boy who was accused of stealing. The prosecutor accused the young boy, the lawyer defended him, and when the judge finally asked him what he thought, what do you think of him as the accused, the boy replied that he does not really know when one says this and the other says something else. So what's the truth about this now? Yesterday there was also a debate on pensions and the May Day satas, and we were then able to read in the papers last night that there has now been a clear message that 'nogo'. I wonder where funding can be found for this if SAK and EK believe that we are not going to change the current earnings-related pension system. I ask Prime Minister Rinte: has this government, then, invented its own money machine association or a new printing press to find funding for this promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u16	Mr President! Raising employment is a key objective, and we all agree on that. Securing existing jobs is also important, and there are many of them in the food industry, Finnish food and agriculture. A quote from the Government Programme: ‘Where future support for the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy is This is a hard piece of concrete, and I am particularly pleased that the Greens and the Left are committed to this whole. It has been estimated that the cuts in rural development funding proposed by the Commission would be up to 14%, which means a loss of some EUR 330 million. This is a very good and strong entry, and the Coalition Party will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u17	Mr President! There has been quite a lot raised here that when the cost of living and driving increases, it is precisely the costs that the Finnish working middle class suffers. On page 34 of the Government Programme, the intention is to encourage oil-fired properties to move to other heating modes during the 20th century through a separate operational programme. Is it now the case that this programme of measures, specifically on behalf of the government, promises that there will be no further increase in the taxes on heating fuel, or how much they will rise? They're going up anyway. But is this an attempt by a stick or carrot to discourage these oil - heated detached houses from oil heating? In fact, these energy renovations are so expensive that when you look at who lives in those oil - heated little detached houses, front - man houses, well, often single widows and older pensioners. They're people who can't demand another ten grand of energy renovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u18	Mr President! It is honourable that, in this debate yesterday, representatives of the opposition also acknowledged this government programme of the Rinte government. There are indeed a lot of things here that, for example, during the last term of the government, were put in motion and that this government has wanted to invest even more in, for example, the sports policy programme. This government is investing more than EUR 60 million in the measures of the sports policy programme alone. It is a huge, huge benefit to ordinary Finnish people, but also to top-notch sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u21	It's a minute. It's a minute. It's a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u22	Mr President! I believe that each of us is here not only because we have a better future, but also because we children have a better future — that Finland is the country in which a 25-year-old would dare to have a child. When it comes to carbon neutrality, it is precisely as a measure that when our children are 10, 15 or 20, whether the world is still viable or whether we suffer from such natural disasters — drought, famine, floods and other unpredictable conditions — that our children would suffer for decades to come. It's the IPCC panel gauge. That is why 1.5 degrees is the limit of global warming beyond which we cannot go globally. It's for our children, for our people's future, not for anything else or anyone else. And that is why climate policy is the best way to ensure that our children have a sustainable future in the future, because if we do not have a sustainable future, if our climate is not viable,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u23	Mr President! I must wonder, however, about that speech by Mrs Rante. During the last term of your party, your party was restricting the subjective right to day care, cutting from families with children by freezing the indexes of child supplements and so on, and this government, the Rinte government is now making improvements to the everyday life of families with children by raising the single parent and child allowances of families with multiple children, restoring the subjective right to day care, reducing group sizes and making a historic reform to obtain free secondary education for every young person in Finland. This is a family-friendly government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u24	Mr President! Not only babies, but young people also forgot: compulsory schooling age is increased, Swedish becomes mandatory to write. Did you ask the kids? For young adults, the interest allowance for the dwelling will be abolished. I'm sure you didn't ask young adults. What about the elderly? What is the care measure, the nursing staff, where is the nursing appointment? The household allowance is being cut. I'm sure you didn't ask anyone who needed a household allowance. What about the drivers? Cars are getting tighter, taxes are going up, gas is going up, housing is going to go up, and you're going to bring in the tolls. I can't believe it. You said yesterday, Rinne, that 1.7 million people voted for you. Of course, you have a majority government, but it is not the will of the people that will be fulfilled. If the people had been listened to, the parties that received the most votes would be there. So, yes, you are, and it is clear here that nonsense is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u25	Mr President! Here the representatives of Salmon and Hänninen well described this government’s family policy, and it is quite clear that this government will facilitate the everyday lives of families. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that the government is going to make tax cuts for people on low and middle incomes and that it will also make life easier for families. Mr Tavio once again raised these tax increases on fuels. Let me remind you that it is an index increase. At the same time, the Government is committed to a comprehensive reform of transport taxation, which takes account of regional specificities and, for example, ensures that differences in assets do not increase. I am surprised at this fundamental Finnish economic policy. After all, you are calling for a halt to the rise in costs, that is inflation, which is to say you are calling for deflation, and that is a bad phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u26	Mr President! A female majority government does talk a lot about promoting equality. Unfortunately, however, it remains at the level of the speeches: the government has forgotten that equality in society cannot be achieved unless equality of opportunity between men and women is achieved. It is in the interests of each child to grow up in a society where women and men have equal opportunities to work hard on their own. Now women spend more than 95% of family leave. It can be seen in women's career and pay development, in opportunities for permanent employment and up to retirement. Instead of the government’s ability to reform family leave, there is an agreement in this area, too, bought with money. Both improving the position of women in working life and increasing flexibility in the everyday lives of families and increasing the participation rate in early childhood education remain and become watered down.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u27	Irade the Talman! You don't know how to answer this. Of course, the government has been sitting here for almost a week. [Laughter] Equal family leave reform has not yet been implemented, but it will. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u28	Mr President! In fact, the reform of family leave that the government is now outlining is one of the few reasonably good things in the programme. Today we read in the paper that it is at least 5+5+5 — but hopefully now the mother’s stay at home will be allowed for 12 months to reach the recommendation for breast-feeding. I believe that the feminist government might be able to define that fathers also have to breast-feed, but yet in Finland a 12-month breast-feeding period is recommended. In general terms, there was a lot of talk over the last period about the employment and gender impact of the family leave reform, but at the very last meetings organised by Minister Saariko, it was noted, among other things from the studies carried out by Kela and THL, that the family leave reform has no employment impact and has little or no gender impact. In other words, family policy — that is a good thing — and I hope that the centre will stick to the fact that this does not necessarily mean to push women away from home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u29	Mr President! It is true that there have sometimes been records in the Government Programme that the right to day care is restricted, the groups of day care centres are being raised, the gas tax is being increased, but oh, President, it was the government programme of the previous government. It's a short memory. The Finns themselves signed the government program. Do you not agree with the fact that today, however, we are moving in the direction of many and, once again, towards a better way of equality, towards the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u32	Mr President! It is easier to criticise the government programme when it is not read, and when you listen to these speeches, I understand that many people would fall into lax duty. It's nicer to judge what you don't have and to come up with the straws you're fighting. Mr President! I was surprised by the speeches which criticised the fact that this government is now implementing the reform of family leave. The assembly had four years to reform the family leave — the balance was zero, nothing at all. The last time the Labour Party was in the government, the proportion of fathers was increased. Now this government is increasing it. And contrary to what Mr Purra said, it is precisely an act of equality that quotas are being increased. It is an act of equality towards fathers who have a better chance of participating in the care of children in the family. It is an act of equality for mothers who have the opportunity to choose better than today. There are a huge number of points in this government programme that I would criticise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u33	Mr President! Yes, the government programme has been read, and I continue to say, as I did yesterday, that there are a huge number of good things there, but I find it extremely unfair that these good things should be built on a stupid economic and employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u36	Mr President! The government programme has been read, but then the ranks of the government parties become, could you say, two-way comments and signals, so it is sometimes difficult to find out what the government's line is now? Now, for example, with regard to the reform of family leave, we have at the same time been told how this is now a family-friendly and family-oriented reform, and then we are told that quotas are coming, and one says that it is 6+6+6, and someone says that 5+5+5. So in what way is such a quota model a reform from the point of view of families? Surely the family knows best now who is caring for the child at home and what is appropriate for the family situation, which is suitable for working life? It must be borne in mind that care for children is not something that is limited to the eight-hour working day, but is 24/7 activity, and in the sense that from here we are now going to guide who is there to take care of the child, there is absolutely no family reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u37	Mr President! Mrs Ranne has raised a very important point on which we have already heard good speeches. Birth rates are one of the biggest problems in our country and also the reason for our many economic challenges. As a father of seven children and a priest of family work, I dare say that I have some knowledge of family and baby life. I was in that social security group during the government negotiations and there we wanted to make social security reform and social benefits improvements, particularly from the point of view of families with children. Family leave reform was also sought from the perspective of families. I think and believe that when families are well, it will be reflected in society as a whole and it will also pay for itself financially. We need more children in this country. With regard to that reform of family leave, the Government Programme states that we will increase the right of fathers to take parental leave but not to shorten the leave of mothers. We're done here, and we have to stay here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u38	Let us now give the floor to Prime Minister Rinte and then to the Council of Ministers in general. They want to take part in the debate. Then we'll go on with the debatt. — Prime Minister Rinne, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Orpo, I would like to say to you that on several occasions in this Chamber I have made the government's economic policy very clear. It starts from the fact that the government will reach 60,000 additional employment figures by 2023, i.e. 75% of the employment rate. In practice, this means that around EUR 1.9 billion will become leeway for the public finances as a whole, of which EUR 300 million will be available for additional expenditure. In addition, the government has decided on a tax increase of EUR 730 million to finance permanent expenditure by means of permanent revenue. These are the elements through which increases in permanent expenditure are built that belong to this whole. I have stated that the government has decided that in August 2020 it will assess the extent to which these employment measures have been implemented on the basis of the calculations made by the VM, the Ministry of Finance, and that this will determine how these permanent increases in expenditure will be assessed on the basis of what employment developments will show in the future. So economic policy is on a solid basis. When you refer to these economic experts, you should also get to know the international debate. The stance of this government's fundamental fiscal policy is exactly what is being strongly promoted at international level in the economic policy debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u44	Then a few other ministers have asked for the floor. I hope, Madam Parliament, that a little lower when ministers speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u45	Mr President! After all, the Government Programme is progressive in many ways from the perspective of equality and equality. As Minister of the Interior, I am pleased that it is my ministry's responsibility to draw up a model for gender impact assessments in the various administrative sectors. Similarly, in the Government Programme it is great that the aim is to make the police more like the people they serve by promoting the recruitment of people from different ethnic backgrounds to police training. Equality and equality are important values in the functioning of the safety authorities, so that marginalised people can also feel trust in the authorities, and that is the trust we want to build as a government. There has also been much talk of regional equality here yesterday, a little overlooked today, and that is important. This Government Programme is the Government Programme of Finland as a whole. I have already discussed with Chief Police Officer Seppo Kolehmaa that work has been included in the Government Programme to increase the presence and visibility of authorities in regions with low service levels. This work has already been started in the police administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just tried to say, and now I have to say a little more strongly: when the Minister speaks, sometimes the interlude is okay, but it is always the case that a constant debate between the left and right side of the Chamber is not at all desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u50	Mr President! After this discussion on how the capital region has been taken into account, this government has indeed taken into account different areas, but, in particular, this government programme may have taken account of the previous one, so that a national urban strategy is drawn up separately, which is therefore based on the broad objectives of the UN Urban Development Programme, and in particular strengthens the ability of the metropolitan area to act as a metropolitan area compared to other metropolitan areas in the world, which, I think, was not there at all during the previous period. And the social welfare solution in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area now largely depends on the municipalities in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, what kind of solution these municipalities themselves are prepared to take.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u52	Mr President! We talked about whether Finns want to have children in this country, and yes, the big challenge is how we tackle climate change. Only in this way can we ensure that our children have a future is this ball where they can live in the future. That is why the ambitious climate objectives of this government are at the very heart of what the future prospects are for people, but we want to make the transition away from the fossil economy socially and regionally justly, and that is why, for example, these tax reductions are targeted at the most low incomes so that any rise in indirect taxes will not be felt there in the purse. We also raised the issue of housing and the fact that this is about getting rid of oil heating. This is what the government is doing with a programme of measures, which has provided tens of millions of people to encourage precisely that these corrections can be made in the economies. Then I will withdraw this urban policy from my own section of the Minister for the Environment. Cities are very important partners in climate work. We will continue with the national sustainable urban agenda, we will continue with the MAL agreements, we will strengthen them, we will extend them, we will make them rolling. These are important measures for cities as well as increasing residential building. For example, the new production of ARA dwellings will be increased by 10,000 years, half of which will be directed specifically to the Helsinki region where more affordable housing is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u55	Mr President! Here, among other things, Mr Vikman raised some very important issues of equality and equality in the debate. This government will make proposals that will improve the situation. We have an ambitious government programme in which we try to address these key issues. We are going to create a gender equality programme and it has been decided that it will be drawn up. We have an ambitious goal for Finland to become a leader in equality: budget processes take gender equality into account, create a monitoring programme, a system that will cover all administrative sectors. Gender equality will also be taken into account in all key reforms and clarified in advance. This equality of pay: it will also be promoted by continuing, among other things, the equal pay programme. Finally, on this issue of the reform of family leave: this is a question that the representatives of Adlercreutz and Arhinmäki have already answered, but of course the reform of family leave is an essential part of our work on equality and is one of the key projects of this government, at least I think that is the case. I also think that this is an external, independent body, what the government has had, if and when you look at this Government Programme of the Rinte Government and compare it with previous Government Programmes, and I do not believe that there is a better Government Programme in terms of equality and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u56	I did, and now let's get on with the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u57	Mr President! Mr Mikkonen, you mentioned that you are investing in low incomes, but have you thought about the fact that fuel tax, heating fuel tax, tolls, or higher prices of mobility and housing, will affect average incomes and will soon also be low incomes? Surely there is no way that we are turning middle-income people into low-income people, which means that we have a larger number of people who should be supported? This may not be very durable. And, in fact, when I listen to the SDP, it is interesting to note that, now that you have moved to the government, there is a feeling that every time we say something wrong here and bring forward development proposals, you say that we have not read or are so confused. Last season you yourself told us how the opposition can affect the government, and here we are trying to bring you good ideas. Now, for God's sake, take note of these yourself, because then you always said you had to listen, and now you feel that your ears are attached to you. And remember where we started at the beginning of last season: there were 100,000 new unemployed people after the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u58	Mr President! It has been loudly said here that Finland is a good country for children. Yeah, for some of the kids, but not nearly everyone. That is why there is a need for reform of family leave, for ensuring subjective early childhood education rights, for free secondary education, for amendments to criminal laws, especially those relating to women and children. In this country, the government programme for the slope will strengthen tolerance, democracy, care. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, Finland really needs these things in order to be a good enough country for all children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u59	Mr President! There really are a lot of good objectives in the Government Programme, and when more than 200 lines of expenditure are used, when one-off items are taken into account, many people are given something. There are a few things that cause confusion. Perhaps the most important thing is that Prime Minister Rinne has here both yesterday and today sought to reassure our fears by the fact that 1.2 billion permanent expenditure increases cover more than EUR 700 million of additional taxes on Finns and, as it were, more than half of the expenditure increases are in the sale. That is not the case, however. After all, these economic considerations of yours rely on the fact that according to the VM's calculations, EUR 1.9 billion should be derived from an increase in employment beyond the basic career of the technical framework, and now, if you are unable to carry out employment measures beyond what the VM predicts, almost EUR 2 billion will fall down. Then we should both refrain from making permanent expenditure increases and maintain your tax increases, should we not? It cannot be thought that you are making 700 million extra expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u60	Mr President! Perhaps now it is appropriate to ensure that the Finnish Parliament Group also receives this Government Programme and these appendices, in which these economic figures and the actual practical records read — do not read those election programs anymore. There's some in that round corridor. For example, Mrs Ranne and a few others there raised the issue of families with children, the elderly, and when you read these appendices, there are quite a lot of things here that specifically focus on children and the elderly, both as regards the strategy for children and on home care and families and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u62	Mr President! There has been much talk of equality and there has also been talk of climate. Representative Ranne raised these Government climate leadership solutions, and if this front line is being sought, I have a simple solution for it and it is also an affordable solution. For myself, I see peat burning as a national form of energy that creates work in Finland. In Finland, peat burning is considered to be the source of emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u65	Mr President! Minister Mikkonen actually said a great deal of what I wanted to say. Children and young people around the world, including in Finland, are concerned about whether there is a future. This government is the first in Finland's history to set a clear target for Finland's carbon neutrality in 2035, which is the target year presented by Finland's own national climate panel, a panel set up to advise politicians in climate science. I hope that we will be able to work constructively across the opposition-government line so that the measures contained in the Government's programme for climate change can be implemented. I am hopeful in this respect because the Group of the European People's Party and the Christian Democrats were involved in the joint effort of the eight parliamentary parties to adopt a common position on climate change,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u66	Mr President! Mr Schoolman made a very interesting speech, which has not been much debated here. He spoke of this important additional goal of 1000 doctors and rightly calculated the proportion of the Helsinki population, which, for example, would be 40 in Turku. It is precisely those amounts that would be needed in municipalities in primary health care to increase the number of doctors in reception, so that we in Finland, 50 years after the adoption of the Public Health Act, will implement the universal principle of basic health care that has been laid down in our country in due course and in which we differ from all the developed countries where we usually have access to a basic doctor within a week, if not more quickly. It cannot be done by the state as a gift that it will drop them out of a helicopter from doctors there; it must be done together with the municipalities. Municipalities could have done so at the time, especially some well-off municipalities, for which it would have contributed less than 1 decimal point to the tax rate if they themselves had invested in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u67	Mr President! Prime Minister, who seemed to have just left the Chamber: no directive prevents the implementation of an equal family leave reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u70	Mr President! The opposition has accused the government programme of ignoring cities, but I would say that the government programme is a very balanced whole that takes into account Finland as a whole. In particular, from the point of view of cities, I would like to raise two points: We have ambitious objectives in housing policy, and it aims in particular to increase affordable housing. In addition, it is planned to launch a neighbourhood programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u73	Mr President! I will continue the discussion on family policy. What freedom of choice is a quota model in which government dictates to families how many months of family leave can be spent? Why can't the family decide this themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u76	Irade the Talman! I do not understand the criticisms that have been cultivated in this Chamber, which have been directed at the study of Swedish, the so-called'required Swedish'.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u79	Mr President! Representatives Ovaska, Aittakumpu and Kärnä boasted earlier that family life was made easier. That is indeed the case, it is the case. Individuals and families who are illegal in the country. Those who have received a negative asylum decision will be given extensive basic services at the expense of society and even a residence permit if the family or other community has a suitable job to offer — i.e. a negative asylum decision. This will deprive the entire asylum system of its foundations, that is to say, the crime will no longer be punished, but will be rewarded. If this government is equal somewhere, then that lawfulness and lawlessness are equal acts. Formerly, Mr Hassi spoke of beautiful carbon neutrality, but this is not reflected in immigration policy. I would remind you that in warm countries, carbon footprints
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u80	Mr President! Our Government Programme is called participatory and competent Finland, and I would say that this whole Government Programme is described by two entities: putting the foundation in order in many respects in social and health care as well as in education and keeping all Finns involved. It was a pleasure and easy job to be with these government partners. This also means the continuation of the last period in the form of a strategy for children, so that, across sector boundaries, children and young people are taken into account that good social and health care services are brought to school and day care centres, and then there is the extension of compulsory education to include young people for longer. We have a duty to keep them with us longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u81	Mr President! The question is to what extent the Rinte government respects this parliamentary debate and the parliamentary process. We are discussing a government programme here, which is probably one of the most important debates in four years, and almost half of the government's ministers are absent. Where are the nine ministers? On the beach, sunbathing? Prime Minister Rinne, tell us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u84	Mr President! You wouldn't believe the congressmen would fall into such cheap populism. Many ministers represent Finland and Finland's positions at EU meetings, and it is an important job for a minister, if any.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u87	Minister Marin has asked for the floor and will be given the floor immediately. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u88	Mr President! Here Mr Kopra made an important point and an important question. Indeed, it is true that this 12-year planning is to be launched, as stated in the Government Programme. The overall picture of the fairway network is compiled and assessed on a broad scale. The overall development will be coordinated as part of the 12-year national transport system plan presented by the parliamentary working group. Of course, for these first years this is not yet possible and, as is stated in the Government Programme, now, even in the context of the amending budget, which is apparently to be adopted before the Midsummer, some key projects will be launched which are therefore ready to be implemented. But of course this overall picture of the transport system, the big picture, is meant to be a joint parliamentary line, to agree, just as we have dealt with this issue together in the past by all the parties. And yes, at least as Minister, I intend to see to it that these major future projects, future investment, will also be outlined in the context of this overall vision and parliamentary cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u89	President! I myself am still reflecting on this fiscal policy line of the government. The Government itself aligns it with active and responsible, but at the same time increases expenditure in relation to the 2019 technical framework of that 1230 million. On the other hand, of course, income will be increased, but someone will pay, and the 730 million would somehow have to be able to compensate those on low and medium incomes, because we know that household indebtedness is incomprehensible at the moment. If 200 million will then be retargeted, then we still have the 300 million remaining there, and it has been thought that it will be achieved by increasing its employment rate. But if the 60,000 additional jobs are not reached, the government’s economic policy will really drop the bottom. We therefore need to come up with and find much more of the additional measures and tasks that will be able to boost economic growth and jobs. We'd have to look for these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u90	Mr President! When the opposition has listened to the speeches, it must be said that the old saying 'pessimistopety' comes to mind. The government has a very good economic line, objectives of 75% employment rate, 60,000 jobs, and a clear common view that any necessary new measures will also be committed if the measures now decided are not sufficient. That was the central objective of the government negotiations, and all parties are committed to this. We all know that an increase in the employment rate is the solution to be able to finance these services. As far as the government programme is concerned, it is the whole of Finland. It is the whole of Finland and we can be proud of that. In other words, it does not just invest in the capital region, but invests in the whole of Finland in a balanced way: regional development, development of the transport network, training, safeguarding the funding of municipalities and research and product development investments. And with this whole Finnish programme we will be able to ensure that all Finns can feel that they are their own positive treatment of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u91	Ministers Rinne and Blomqvist have asked to speak. Three minutes from the scene? I'm sure it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u92	That is enough, thank you, Mr President. — Mr Vähämäki, thank you for your pertinent and analytical contribution. It is important in a culture of debate that we can moderate and in-depthly reflect on this policy of economic policy. You have just identified the critical points that are at stake here in the government's economic policy. And that is precisely the fact that the government's tough will is a commitment that plus 60,000 new jobs will be made there by 2023. We will work together with the social partners, including the Finnish Entrepreneurs, to do everything we can to ensure that these 60,000 jobs, the additional unemployed, will come. It is the basis of this whole structure. The EUR 1.9 billion will thus come into the balance of public finances, of which EUR 300 million has been thought to be used for expenditure increases. Then taxation will be increased by this EUR 730 million, and the combined effect of this is that if this does not start in August 2020, then the additional expenditure on technical developments will be assessed, which has now been launched in this Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u94	Mr President! It is very gratifying that there are quite a few people here who are interested in family leave reform and equality. And it is also gratifying that many members of the opposition are interested and want to do, as is the case with the government, an ambitious and family-friendly reform of family leave. However, it seems, or sounds like, that there is at least some uncertainty here about what the government has registered in the government programme, and that is why I want to read directly about this government programme. “The aim is to ensure that family leave and care responsibilities are evenly shared between both The opportunities for family choice and flexibility in keeping family leave will be increased. The reform will be implemented in such a way that it treats everyone equally, including diverse families, taking into account the different forms of entrepreneurship. The reform must be carried out in such a way that mothers and fathers have equal quotas for months. The amount of earnings-related leave allocated to fathers will be extended without reducing the current proportion of mothers available. In addition, family leave must include a free period of parental leave. Both parents are paid the increased earnings equivalent to the current proportion of mothers.” So this is what it says in the government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u95	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u96	Mr President! Four years ago, in the government negotiations, the Coalition Party and the Centre knew what the greatest concern of Finnish society lies in our own hands. It is saving the welfare society for future generations: putting the economic base in order, tackling the sustainability gap, strengthening business, increasing diligence in society. At that time, standards were abolished, effort was made on hard work and hard work, and employment measures were put in place to create 140,000 jobs. It's a real career. Now this government, in which the centre is still sitting, is approaching this great challenge from a completely different perspective. On the contrary, now that we should have continued along the same lines in order to strengthen employment and seek new business remedies, this government will increase spending and tighten taxes — even though at the same time the extremely great challenges facing the economy
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u97	Mr President, värderade talman! Representative In his own speech, the schoolman raised the view of Helsinki, and that is a good thing. And Happy Helsinki Day! You also said that Uusimaa is the engine of the whole country, and that is how it is. Therefore, the Government has taken a booth in a letter from all 26 municipalities in Uusimaa seeking to resolve the social services and the structures required by them in a manner agreed jointly by the municipalities. This is what the government is now working on together with the Kun Road of Uusimaa by the end of this year. I am a little surprised that this positive issue has not come up more widely in the speeches. I myself mentioned this in yesterday's debate. Is it the case that other neo-American representatives are not in favour of this good thing, not even the coalition?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u99	Mr President! I must begin by saying that there are good elements in this government programme. The objectives are at least important if we try to reduce poverty and inequality and, for example, try to update a substance abuse strategy or a mental health strategy. Despite these good objectives, I would like to see programmes that would actually bring about changes. For example, when we talk here about supporting young people's employment or preventing poverty and inequality, we have generally described these measures in three sentences, such as employment support. I would, in a way, apply, now that you have a poverty investigator there in the government, to take parliamentary preparatory work into some sections, for example, when several attempts have been made to achieve results in the area of young people' s exclusion and they have not been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u100	Mr President! With my heart in mind, I ask Prime Minister Rinne: is it the case that this government programme contains elements that guarantee that the Senate Square will not be filled with wage earners and farmers — and neither does the Railway Market — so that we need to be concerned here about these people who are producing an economy in this society from which prosperity is shared? Is it really the case that now, on the other side of the hall, there can be a calm mind that we do not have the kind of industrial battles that have resulted from government action? In my opinion, this government is not building measures that cause such movements that prevent good economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u101	Mr President! For my part, I welcome the section in Prime Minister Rinte's Government Programme which clearly states that this is a government programme for the whole of Finland. And we have had a debate in this Chamber about whether we can cut down forests or use our natural resources: of course we must be able to use them wisely and sensibly, which is what this government is genuinely trying to do. And when we discuss which province is most important for this country, it is a little unnecessary to discuss when you look at today's export statistics, the huge industrial export flows to the world. They come from all over Finland, so let us not fall into the cheap populism that we say one province is more important than the other. This is the whole thing we need to take care of. Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention the development of these lines. The main track plus, of course. The western track, the east line, is definitely because Eastern Finland has suffered from the historical fact that the borders changed in the 40s. We're all the way down here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u102	Mr President! The Government Programme promises to build a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. This good goal itself has a considerable tension built in, and it is precisely between the economy and ecology. Traditionally, economic growth has been linked to the additional use of natural resources and adverse environmental impacts. The Government Programme therefore suggests on its front page, under the heading, that growth in the economy and well-being will no longer depend on the growth of natural resource consumption and its adverse environmental impacts. I do not know whether there is any country in the world where this disconnection has taken place — perhaps Germany is the closest. The Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Finance should be able to open up the reality of this good objective in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u103	Then Minister Saarikko has asked to speak. If I heard you, two to three minutes, did you say?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u104	Mr President! This debate in several stages today and yesterday has, of course, rightly overlooked how the government can achieve its objective of employment. I think that the whole of Parliament has a united view — and I am delighted — that education, research and knowledge have a key role to play in any case. I am trying to understand this whole as far as research and higher education policy are concerned, perhaps briefly from three different points of view: First of all, from the perspective of students and higher education institutions, the Government Programme has been strongly directed that accessibility, i.e. the background to the accessibility of independent education, should be a stronger student's right in the future. The second dimension relates to what we want to communicate to universities after very fast and difficult years: development, stability and peace at work. There is also a message that new ideas and innovations tend to emerge from the bottom up, and our role in relation to universities and universities of applied sciences is to enable us to develop our own activities and to undertake our own reforms. And perhaps thirdly, a large national target — and I also believe that it is easy to find one-sidedness in it — in terms of increasing the number of people with higher education: we have argued that the proportion of those with higher education needs to be increased to 50% of the current 41%. Of course, it involves places of origin and access to education, the accessibility already mentioned, but also the overall capacity of the university field in general. This topic will inevitably be strongly present when we are aiming for a national employment target and an increase in skills, but also in such a way that education is possible for all in Finland in the 2020s, regardless of the background. In financial terms, this means that we will strengthen basic funding for universities with an increase of EUR 40 million, for universities of applied sciences with an increase of EUR 20 million, and also for index increases to be fully taken care of throughout the parliamentary term. This is part of the message of stability and peace in work. Mr President! Mr Niiko's speech also touched heavily and beautifully on the role of young people in society. We are pleased that, in the field of youth policy, it has been stated that the focus of national youth work and policy will also be strongly on this government's broad package of exclusion of young people. It is a major theme that is supported, among other things, by youth work looking for additional europanos and workshops for young people, without forgetting the highly developed Ohjaamo activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u105	Mr President! This government programme is indeed phenomenal, but certainly not phenomenal: beautiful words, and on every other page decisions are placed in the explanatory folder — 113 things for which no decisions have been made are placed in the explanatory folder. This green left government disciplines ordinary Finnish families, most of them in rural and rural areas. By this government, fuel prices will rise,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u108	Mr President! This criticism, which comes particularly from the direction of the coalition towards families with children, and now even towards entrepreneurship and work, is quite surprising. First of all, home care support deserves credit. This government will improve the status of families, allow them to choose, and also improve the status of fathers with families, and the ability of entrepreneurship families to take better care of their own offspring. These are the genuine improvements. As far as Mr Heinonen's speech is concerned, as far as taxation is concerned, taxation will not increase. On the contrary, small and medium-income earners will be subject to tax reductions, and all in all, this government trusts entrepreneurship, entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial deduction — which you also doubted — will remain the same as it has been until now and, among other things, the threshold for VAT duty will be raised. As far as farmers are concerned, whatever expenditure or additional costs they may incur, they will all be compensated for by farmers. For once, this government is in favour of Finland as a whole and also of farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u109	Mr President! In my opinion, this family debate here in the Chamber and in the Government Programme focuses on minor issues and does not address the real problems associated with this issue, that is, what really causes the decline in the birth rate. First of all, the fact that there is no work, especially for young people, especially for permanent employment, is expensive to live in, especially in Congestion Finland, and then there are no jobs outside of Congestion Finland and mobility costs: there is no improvement in these matters. There is no realistic basis for employment. On the contrary, the price of housing and transport will be raised. The second question is also about the climate of attitude, namely that, now that a couple of decades have been spent trying to create a state of emergency and climate distress for the nation and creating the impression that the birth rate in Finland is some kind of climate problem, someone is gradually going to believe and start to act according to these attitudes. What will the government do to remedy this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u110	Mr President! The Government Programme has strong records to promote affordable housing. There is an investment in affordable housing production, so I was a little puzzled by the previous speech. There will be strong investments for families with children in early childhood education, basic education and a historic reform of the free second stage. In addition, there will be free hobby clubs for schoolchildren according to the Icelandic model. Is this not investing in families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u114	Mr President! Access to basic health care is particularly difficult in Finland. According to the OECD list, Finland is a real disgrace at European level. The Government Programme promises to tighten the treatment guarantee in primary health care so that you can get to a doctor on an urgent matter within a week. This is a good objective, and I thank the government for that. So, according to THL, more doctors are needed between 1600 and 2,600, and now we should get those doctors to the health centers, but by what means? That's something to think about, and I suggest you ask the doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u117	I would like to remind you that the speeches will remain within one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u118	Mr President! The question was who would go to the market next to protest and criticise the government's policy. I'd say they're nurses, because old people can't go to the walker march. The quietest ones in the care centers can't get on the rollator march, but the nurses are leaving. When there is this government entry where the minimum size binding on the care staff is recorded in the law, I would like to find out what that care staff means. Why aren't you talking about medical personnel? What does it mean for the care staff, and how long do we have to wait for this sort of care? What do you think you're doing? That was just one sentence, that was one month, when a few months ago you said that. That's what I'd ask and say, "I'll meet you at the market." That's where we nurses are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u119	Mr President! The educational objectives recorded in the Government Programme have been largely well received in the field. There have also been concerns that I hope the Minister of Education will be able to answer. What about school-specific applied courses that have been a life hole for many high school students and have been supportive? How are courses organised across the subject lines in accordance with the new curriculum? Will freedom of movement be prevented in the choice of upper secondary school if the municipality cannot afford to pay for a student in another municipality? Will the selection criteria leave the upper secondary school if the education provider is obliged to offer everyone a secondary place? Will free-of-charge increase the workload of educational institutions? Upper secondary school teachers are also concerned about the loss of pedagogical freedom when the materials are competitive. What would you, Minister for Education, answer these concerns?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u120	Mr President! Once again for this fuel tax debate: It is used time and again as an argument, even though many times it has been shown what its scale is. That fuel price is also affected by many other things. And especially from the point of view of the assembly, I would be interested to know — when this government programme does make a variety of policies in the direction of making transport more environmentally friendly — what its attitude towards this sort of climate policy in the transport sector is. What is the logic behind it, how should traffic be developed in Finland from your point of view, so that it will be on a sustainable basis in our future? In a way, I would like to see a little more constructive criticism in this direction if we really want to tackle this very issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u121	Mr President! To this previous speech: Ministers, I myself have the impression that quite a few people today are having difficulty paying compulsory bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u126	Then Ministers Lintilä and Andersson have asked for short answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u127	Mr President! Now I'm gonna have to fix some of this misinformation that's going on here. Representative Heinonen reported an increase in income tax of 500 million. If income tax were to increase by 500 million, we would not have had to do, for example, an increase in fuel taxes. You referred to the taxpayer's statement. I checked: that estimate of the 500 million was given during the government negotiations. Later, CEO Lehtinen has also made a statement in which he no longer talks about this increase. We'll figure this out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u134	Mr President! In most of the speeches we have heard about the well-being of families with children and also young people, and it has also rightly been said that this government is making major investments in, among other things, early childhood education, basic education and that second stage, which is specifically aimed at supporting the well-being of children and young people. Restoring subjective day care rights on a full-time basis for all Finnish children will be an important decision for the equality and well-being of children. Thus, as part of this whole, the government is also extending compulsory education to secondary level, and as compulsory education expands, so will the freeness of education to that secondary level. It also means that in future we must ensure that there are starting places for all young people in Finland at the second level. But in this respect, at least I do not see that this would bring a major change to the current situation, because there are currently enough starting places for all Finnish young people starting in the second degree, and we have already had a commitment to implement this training month in the past. The changes in educational materials will be bigger. This means that Finnish families will no longer have to worry about school books that cost several thousand euros in the upper secondary school sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u137	Mr President! I would like to comment at this stage on some of the speeches that have been made here about the opportunities for growth in creative sectors, for example, as Mrs Guzenina rightly pointed out. Currently, only 4% of Finland's GDP comes from creative industries. Of course, our objective would be to reach a joint Nordic and European level in order to bring it closer to 7% of the size of our economy, and there have also been very important records and also financial contributions. Last season there was an audiovisual media incentive, which will now be continued and which has brought investment to Finland in the film industry and in the television industry, and in the same way we will also try to get bigger growth engines for the creative industries. In addition, it was called for how, overall, economic growth and economic growth progress should be made in the same way as with regard to environmental conditions. Of course, this is a major issue for all countries of the Western world. This government programme has very strict records on how to move towards carbon neutrality, and if Finland is the first industrialised country to do this — that our well-being and our economy can grow without us being dependent on fossil fuels — that is, of course, the key issue on which other industrialised countries are undoubtedly interested. There is also, of course, this same debate, which was also touched upon a little yesterday. Mr Eestilä raised these electricity transmission prices. They are quite high compared to the price of electricity itself, and that is why there are records in the government programme that we are once again looking for ways to correct the heavy increases in electricity transmission prices. However, it must be borne in mind that, for example, the Eestilä Party, the Coalition Party, presented in the electoral programme EUR 100 million in tightening the electricity tax on households. That is not what this government is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u140	Mr President! I have been running a lot of things in this sense, following this debate now for two hours. The problem is that we're going through everything between earth and heaven. If I were to take a foreign policy, a security policy, it would seem strange. What, President-in-Office, prevents such a matter from being dealt with on a point of order, in which case the ministers too will be involved in the debate and will not expect to be able to answer these questions at some point, if at all, much after it has been brought up here by the Members of Parliament? This is a rather poor culture of debate, which we are following today, and I would like to see Mr President take seriously the way in which this should become a more exciting culture of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u142	These will certainly be discussed in the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u143	Mr President! The Government Programme aims at a 75-degree employment rate, although experts believe that the global economy is going to decline. If the 75-degree employment rate is reached, in practice it means that more and more people will only be working part-time and underpaid, just because the employment rate can be raised. That's the reason? I would like to ask the government: how does the government intend to motivate the unemployed to seek jobs that cannot be paid? And I ask Minister Ohio: is the government programme intended to invest directly in police training for undocumented/illegal immigrants?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u144	Mr President! It has been a pleasure to hear that many speeches, including those from the opposition, have found praise in the government programme. Let us hope that these things can be brought forward in good agreement. However, a lot of criticism has also been raised, particularly with regard to expenditure increases in the government programme. Either expenditure increases seem to be too much or too little, or they appear to be misfinanced or misallocated. This criticism is not surprising, as this debate shows the differences between the political groups and the differences in values. We are at the heart of politics, so to speak. For example, the Coalition Party has criticised expenditure increases as a rip-off and thus a rather minor improvement. For example, an increase of EUR 50 to the lowest pensions or an increase in basic security of EUR 20 may sound small, but I can tell you that the increase in the purse of those who receive this increase is real, welcome and needed. Of course, I understand that there is a clear difference of opinion here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u145	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about family policy, and I find it rather strange that, among the opposition, fuel prices seem to be such a cornerstone of family policy. When I myself think back to the time of starting a family and when we started having a baby with the wife, we didn’t think much about the price of gas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u149	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this government programme, including investments in education. During the last parliamentary term, the Greens, led by Ville Niinistö, were furiously attacking the Sipilä government for its educational savings. Ville Niinistö said on April 6, 16: “You would be ashamed if you didn’t lead. “ Then he said:‘The Greens’responsible that on the day when we’re here,we’re going Ladies and gentlemen, you are there now, but you are not returning the money that has been cut out of it. You're going to return a third of your permanent expenses, depending on the method of calculation. I do not know who is on the floor today — even Mr Harjanne — but now I ask you the Greens: How did this happen? How did you fail your educational vows?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u150	The debate panel has already been closed, but the Greens will then be able to respond to them with their own actual speeches. Let us take a few more of these comments which have been ordered during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u151	Mr President! I will return to this issue of early childhood education. You in the government can promise all the fun you want for families with children, but you always forget who pays these costs. Unfortunately, subjective day care is an absurd waste in this economic situation. Why do you have to put your children in day care if one of your parents is home? Why do you feel that a better place for young children would be at day care and not at home if there was a chance? Indeed, the increase in the number of children in early childhood education does not improve the quality of early childhood education or the services mentioned here by Mr Kalliorinne. All these additions are borne by municipalities, and in municipalities this is taken away from something else, whether it is the abolition of village schools or, for example, tax increases. State subsidies do not correspond to the real costs of these increases for municipalities. At least downtown people would be interested, for example, in this possible closure of village schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u152	Mr President! The central government shares are, remain and rise because we have this government. The Halla-aho, on the other hand, has argued that the system of compensatory state aid should be abolished. From the word to the word: ‘The system is aconsistent regional policy’. But when it comes to making increases in energy taxes in some way lavishly: When the Finns of Finland were in the government, we raised a tonne of carbon dioxide from EUR 44 to EUR 54 for our first job. The Coalition Party has increased the fuel tax for the period 2011-2015 more than this Government will. The election programme for the Coalition Party had the abolition of car tax, which would be compensated by, for example, an increase of 20 cents in gas tax, or a vehicle tax equal to EUR 300 for all vehicles, and, in addition, Minister Kulmun's
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u153	Mr President! I will return to this employment and to this big picture, because it will determine whether your economic policy will succeed and whether you will be able to afford it for permanent expenditure. I would now like to clarify these figures. Prime Minister Rinne, you said that 60,000 new jobs are needed. But from what I read, that base is plus 40,000, and the government program is looking for an increase of 60,000. In other words, the number of new people employed for which this economic programme has been built is plus 100,000 jobs. It's a huge amount. And now that we see from the Bank of Finland's forecast that economic growth is not as fast as it is at the bottom of the Ministry of Finance, that means that you need to create more than 100,000 new jobs — probably well over 100,000. This basis for economic and employment policy is still impossible. You also justified this with countercyclical economic policy, but now, if we go to Keynesian level, we should still save.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u154	Mr President! I come from Gdans from a meeting of the Baltic Sea Commission, where many speeches greeted with great joy the arrival of a new government in Finland. It was strongly highlighted that sustainable development and the fight against climate change are so strongly reflected in this government's programme. Socially, economically and ecologically sustainable development is now being built in Finland. The Baltic Sea is perfectly visible in the Government Programme and, above all, the emphasis was placed on what is constantly coming up against in these international contexts: Finland opens outwards, cooperation, towards the international system, does not close itself. The same thing was said about President Moon Jae-in, South Korea, who also visited Parliament on Monday. His leadership has not only been linked to the situation in Korea and to that foreign policy and security policy framework, but to economic policy, which is human-face. It was great to have a debate and say: we have a government that is also currently pursuing a human-face policy, an economic policy with a human face.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u155	Yes, and this debate has taken place for now. I am quite sure that there will be opportunities for it again today, but let us go back to this list of speakers who have been asked for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u156	Mr President! As far as that general debate is concerned, when the right-wing conservative opposition says that you cannot, you cannot, my message is, above all, to future generations, to young people, to children, that we must at least try. Yes, we can, we can. It's wrong for the future to say you can't, it's not worth it. You always have to believe in the future, and you always have to try. The 75th Government of Finland's history and its programme create good prospects for Finland's construction towards the 2030s. The participatory and competent Finland Government Programme is, above all, a programme that takes into account the whole of Finland and all Finns. Regional policy has been put at the centre for the first time in nearly ten years. Regional policy and the whole of Finland — they represent the Government Programme for the New Red Mule. For too long, Finland's development has only been done on the terms of the strong. For too long, Finland has been divided into two camps: those who succeed and those who are excluded from success. For too long, large and rejected small ones have been popular in Finland. Mr President! In 2015, the situation in Finland was different. Debt was reckless, unemployment grew, and faith in the future was weak. Thanks to the central-driven government Finland was put in good shape. Mistakes were made, but the big picture is clear. Finland can now be developed when the foundation is in order. Finland has always needed a responsible central policy in order to ensure that the economy has also been well cared for. The union of right-wing and left-wing, that is, purple, would have left a big bill in its wake once again. We couldn't afford that. That's why the city center's on the board. [of the group of Finns:Because of the consensus!] Mr President! The right-wing Conservative opposition should be told what the new red mud is creating in this country. The future is now being built in many ways. The Government Programme enables the extension of the MAL agreements, allowing cities such as Jyväskylä, Kuopio and Lahti to participate in the development programme for large cities. In the past, in addition to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, only the urban regions of Oulu, Tampere and Turku have been included in this special treatment. The development of the main line with its extension creates the conditions for the development of transversal connections. It is clear that good connections and accessibility also determine the development of regions. That is why we need investment in the development of transport projects in Finland as a whole. The list of good entries in the Government Programme is long, even exhaustingly long: Work and entrepreneurship as well as the promotion of justice, regional policy and the regional model, transport investments to enable housing, entrepreneurship and work throughout Finland, in sparsely populated areas and cities, suburbs and rural areas. The Government Programme states that the government does not take measures in labour market policy that have a negative impact on employment without at the same time taking more effective measures to improve employment. This is also true of the active model, which is why it is replaced by work incentives. The use of forests and agriculture are not compromised. Taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses will not be tightened. Education will be made more work-oriented. New teachers will be hired to promote vocational training and workplace learning. The services of families with children will be improved and family-free will be increased. The smallest pensions will be increased. More cops, more soldiers, new fighters and new boats for the Defence Forces. More work, more security and more future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u157	Mr President! The objectives of Prime Minister Antti Rinte's Government Programme should be considered in particular against its economic guidelines. The new government bases its economic policy largely on the hope that the favourable economic development will continue and that the employment situation will improve. However, if this does not happen, the bottom of the economic line will fall and many of the promises of the programme will remain empty. At the end of 2018, Finland's general government debt relative to GDP was 58.9 per cent. Now the government is raising permanent expenditure by EUR 1.2 billion and there are also EUR 3 billion in one-off items. After the financial crisis in 2008, Finland's economy continued to deteriorate for an exceptionally long time. During this period, the amount of government debt was almost doubled. Despite the recovery of the world economy, the economic upturn and the growth in employment, Finland’s public finances are still not in balance. Now it is hardly going to get better, or at least it is not going to be possible to count on it. There are many uncertainties and contradictions in the world economy and policy. In a more predictable and stable world, there might have been some more justification for the new government programme. The Government Programme has described many good goals or at least hopes, but it is clear that the reflection on the economy or other realities has not been as interesting. If the economic cycle changes and risks materialise, the gap between revenue and expenditure will be torn and the costs now to be increased may have to be financed with more debt or by selling ownership or simply cut costs, as has already been suggested. Mr President! In many cases, the objectives and reality of the Government Programme will hardly be met either. I myself have concerns, especially about the high costs of mobility and housing, which, of course, is reflected in the daily lives of many people and which, of course, is also reflected in work travel, although it is precisely the mobility of labour within the country that needs to be made to work much better. A major flaw in the new government programme is also the attitude towards the development of citizens' everyday purchasing power and normal ownership, which is not very much in the programme or, at least, behind other choices. However, strengthening domestic purchasing power and developing Finnish ownership are bottlenecks in the development of our economy. Household purchasing power and domestic ownership raise the standard of living of Finns and bring economic independence and buffers for difficult times. A viable economy needs both a purchasing domestic market and an export market. Purchasing domestic markets are an important breeding ground for companies and a springboard for many companies also for internationalisation. It would have been important to raise the value of this at last. Mr President! In view of these considerations, I support Mr Tavio's motion of censure. Mr President! I would also like to highlight a few positive aspects of the Government Programme: raising the employment rate is, of course, an important objective in itself. Training and research efforts are needed and lifelong learning needs to be developed. In the management of employment, it is appropriate to strengthen the role of municipalities, as stated in the programme. The Government Programme also lists many good objectives, the content of which remains open. For example, it remains to be seen what the means to promote the position of the part-time workers include and what their effectiveness is, as important as it is. I will also make one proposal for consideration. The programme has highlighted the serious disruptions and preparedness of financial markets. In this context, I would suggest that it would also be sensible to draw attention to international acquisitions of infrastructure, resources or technology that are particularly critical to our country. Without endangering investment protection, a dose of sound criticalness is in order, and appropriate control mechanisms should therefore be developed, for example, under the auspices of the Committee on Economic Policy. Among other things, there is an institution in the United States that is looking at foreign direct investment of this kind. In the face of the diversity, complexity and, at the same time, of security challenges, consideration should also be given to the creation of a special ministerial working group focusing on national security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u158	Mr President! From many angles, we have praised this programme of Prime Minister Rinte's government, and there are many good objectives there. That is quite clear. But we Finns have such old wisdom that if something is too good to be true, then it seems that it is not true. That is why, in accordance with this general principle of caution, I am bound to join Mr Orpo in his distrust of the Rinte Government. It is quite clear that the objectives are good, but, unfortunately, when this economic aspect of the government programme is as weak as it is, we are in great danger of falling into the path of over-indebtedness, and we know that debt, especially if this reckless indebtedness starts, is a direct cut from our children and our children's children's children, who will then have to pay for these debts. Mr President! Most of this programme of Prime Minister Rinte's government has been suspected that although the employment objective itself is quite right — to increase the employment rate to 75 — there is a lack of concrete action. Well, fortunately, private sector operators have suggested that they want to invest in Finland, that they want to create jobs here, and the Finnish forest sector is currently of particular interest. Concrete projects are under way, for example for the Boreal Bioref project in Kemijärvi, which is expected to be subject to authorisation by the authorities these days as to whether the biorefinery can be implemented. At the same time, Metsä Group has presented a significant biorefinery investment in Kemi. These are both billion-class projects bringing work and livelihood to Finland, building a foundation for well-being, and this would create the good jobs that the government would undoubtedly desperately need to meet these good goals mentioned in the government's programme. Let me ask Prime Minister Rinne: are these investments welcome or are they not? It is unfortunate that government ministers have been very different on this issue. This requires clear clarity, because there are other players in the area than these investment companies alone. There are many small entrepreneurs who would like to believe in the future of their locality, build apartments there, start a wide range of business activities there, do exactly what is needed to keep all Finnish regions in tune and succeed. We now need a clear line from the government on forestry policy and the desirability of investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u159	Mr President! On the basis of what Mr Automotive has said, I now wanted to answer directly this question: In other words, this government is in favour of projects that increase employment in Finland and which are part of the solution needed for the whole of climate change, and we now have quite a few of these such new projects in the forest industry. It is quite certain that these companies will also consider which activities will continue if new projects come, and yes, I believe that we will be able to combine good climate policy and the future construction of the forest industry based on raw materials in Finland in the right way. I wouldn't be too worried about you, Congressman. Autto now for what happens in Lapland to investments in the forest industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u161	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Tavio's motion of censure. The people are being put to pay for the recklessness of the government. Reasonable economic thinking is always based on facts. Each of us knows it in his own way, or as the Finnish proverb says: mouth to mouth. The assumptions of the future must be based on realism, not hopes or delusional thinking. The sea captain cannot always assume he sails in sunny weather. If the captain of the sea doesn't care about the sea or the winds, there's a shipwreck ahead. The same applies to this new government of ours: the ship is on the rocks. The new government programme is based on pious hopes that economic growth will remain at 2% and that the employment rate will reach 75% by 2023 on the assumption of ‘normal international and reflect domestic economic developments’. The forecasts show the opposite: the economy is cooling down. The forecasts from the Bank of Finland yesterday confirm this. The most significant aspect of the government programme is the tripartite search for ways of improving employment, together with the social partners. It may prove to be as difficult as squaring a circle if anyone remembers any mathematics. Mr President! The proposed government programme relies on wild optimism and a determined denial of facts in its expectations of economic growth. Look what's happening in the world. The IMF predicts an increase of 1.8% for emerging economies, but the EU itself predicts major problems in the future. The Brexi and the Trade Wars will calculate this forecast. For Finland, this will be disastrous, for we live in exports. The government's belief in the continuity of income and the means to finance it are, in a word, irresponsible. The fact that borrowing is avoided by selling state property is, to put it beautifully, absurd. You would think that Mr Haavisto, for example, would remember how the sale of Caruna only brought a little money and endless electricity transmission charges to the citizens. The government is selling state property and the people are being paid. The sale of state property cheaply and then the fact that citizens have to pay for natural monopolies is contrary to all rational principles. Mr President! I'm afraid the five-cent government is colliding with the facts of everyday life. At first, we are facing a denial of reality, just as in 2008, when the previous major recession hit us. At that time, the SDP was even able to warn the government of the coming recession a couple of times, but apparently the demars' ideas of economic policy have changed from those days to unrealistic ones. After the denial of the facts, the government will have to close the income gap. It is natural for it to start (a) to sell more State property, (b) to tax more. The Greens proved to be a great help to the government. The vague principles of climate taxation offer enormous opportunities for raising the tax burden on the average Finnish citizen who is driving a car and lives in a detached house. The tax solutions presented in the Government Programme are unfair. They hit the most pensioners who live in a detached house and who drive cars. There are a couple hundred thousand of these people. The conditions for their living are strangled effectively and without mercy. This can be done because few of them vote for the Greens or even the Social Democrats. Mr President! What this strikes is what is known as Finland of the losers, or Finland outside Ring III, which used to vote for the stick. Payers of this historic bad experiment are ordinary citizens who are now being harassed with real mind. There is a message from the province: people are disappointed, they wanted change, but they got tax increases and fuel price increases to pay. What's the result? What will the researchers of political history say about this peculiar government? It seems that this green left experiment will become some kind of government scarecrow to which historians will refer with fear and trembling. The question then is, how could this be done? Citizens will be left with nightmares in this period. It was a time when the workers ran out of money. It was a time when the driver was an enemy in his own country. It was a time when the stick collapsed. Mr President! Where did this government programme forget the export industry and future prosperity? Why did the common people get paid? Finally, there is good in this government programme. Investing in nature conservation, 100 million, is a national and patriotic policy, the right eco-act — I want to leave a better country to future generations — thanks for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u162	Mr President! The Government Programme has highlighted indoor air problems, which are currently a serious problem in many schools and day-care centres, for example. However, there is no mention in the Government Programme of how, for example, the education of children suffering from indoor air would be best organised in the future. In many municipalities, children are now forced day after day and week after week to become symptomatic of a bad indoors school. At the same time, they are basically left entirely to their own devices. The government should understand that it would be extremely important to get all children and adults who are symptomatic of schools and kindergartens and other institutions immediately to new premises. The kind of evasive spaces where symptoms can stop. The government should support municipalities and give them help to replace institutions suffering from poor indoor air with clean schools, for example, where symptoms no longer occur. The government must therefore pay particular attention to this, because our children, in particular, cannot be any experimental animals whose symptoms would be ignored. The Government Programme promises to deal with the situation of people who are sick from indoor air in such a way that, due to indoor air, the incapacitated and incapacitated do not remain without a livelihood. That's a good entry. But what is even more important is to understand that many incapacitated people prefer to go back to work in clean spaces and, in the alternative, to social security if work is simply no longer possible. The government should therefore seek primarily to support the participation of this group in the labour market, rather than simply emphasising the livelihoods of those who have fallen from working life, such as social security. On top of that, many things have now been included in the Government Programme quite broadly. For example, the government does not explain how a study is carried out in practical terms in support of living in the indoor air or how part-time incapacity is taken into account as one part-time incapacity for work. For indoor sick people, the government programme offers many fine entries, but hopefully they will not be just speeches, but speeches will also become deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u165	Mr President! Here, for once, there was a speech on the part of the opposition, where there was a great deal to agree on. However, I should like to make it clear that the Government Programme contains such a general entry at the place of residence, which states that ‘the implementation of the positions on the moisture andhome problems of buildings previously approved by the Parliament shall be clarified and verified’. This also covers matters related to the social security of schools and other persons affected by indoor air. In addition, a number of measures have been listed here on the construction side to address this issue. The Government Programme also commits itself to continuing the Healthy Spaces 2028 programme that was launched last season, and I hope that it will reach a more concrete level than it did last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u166	To the list of speakers, Congressman Ikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u167	Mr President! There are many things in the Government Programme that you can be happy about. It promotes well-being in many ways and promises to invest in education, the environment, equality and many other themes promoting sustainable development. My main concern with the government programme is that it contains a breathless number of promises, many of which are good, but the amount of expensive promises is enormous in relation to the financial base. My own concerns about the program relate to the inability to make choices, even painful ones. This is reflected in the lack of strategic priorities. In the name of sustainability, action could have been prioritised and targeted more effectively. Prime Minister! You said that the economy is being run for the people, which is a fine thing to say. As a sustainable household, I understand for myself that, in addition to the needs of today's economy, our children and grandchildren think that it is possible for them to live in a prosperous Finland. As I read the Government Programme, the fear creeps into my mind that when all the nice things are promised to everyone in the moment and sprinkle the money on over a hundred targets and at the same time forget about the needs and conditions for the future, how our people will be able to meet them in the future. I do not think it is responsible. Fortunately, however, you promised that there would be no increase in permanent expenditure without permanent revenue and that you would guarantee a sustainable economy based on employment growth. The target is therefore a good employment rate of 75%. It would be better to aim even higher, but the question of how and how to achieve this has been left unanswered in these days. The programme would also require credible measures to promote business and boost employment, i.e. to create an economic base. I hope that the government will correct this deficiency in its programme at the latest during the implementation phase. Then we'll go to training. I am delighted with the training efforts. However, I would like to thank the previous government for cancelling the higher education index freeze, which was in the process of becoming a reality, regardless of Prime Minister Rinte's government programme. Capitalization of universities also [Quick Five] The second-degree stakes I would have focused on better support and put more emphasis on early years. The fear I have heard of many secondary schools is that the money needed to extend compulsory education is out of education and leads to weaker learning materials. Many of these day-to-day experts would prefer to concentrate money on the teaching of those who need support in small groups and, in general, on the opportunity to meet an adult at regular intervals. The most difficult question from the point of view of compulsory education and motivation is how young people could adopt outside education as motivational. Dropping off the school path will not happen overnight, and it would therefore be most important to invest in early childhood education and early stages of young people in order to effectively prevent poor school performance, learning difficulties, exclusion and unemployment. When we talk about the most effective means, I would have liked to see a more precise impact assessment of how to support and prevent young people from being educated. Then there is the question of these railway projects. It is good to hear that the parliamentary contributions to basic infrastructure management are progressing, but otherwise the traffic records were unfortunately round in the Government Programme. For the sake of mobile people, companies and the climate, it is good that, for example, the interurban rail links, i.e. the main track, the Turku-hour train and the eastern railway, are mentioned in the programme. However, it remains unclear how they will be put forward in practice. Project companies used earlier to seek a financing solution to take them forward. However, Mr Kurvinen spoke here yesterday about the choice between trains, which gave me the fear of putting the projects against each other. The Minister of Finance also said in the media that an hour’s train should be moving forward. What about the main track and the east track? However, in the case of the main railway line, there is already a burning rush to get planning started. The planning objectives of the main railway line serving more than half of Finland must still be to increase speed and capacity and to implement the planning quickly so that the main line can also be included in the search for EU funding. We don't have time for this. The time window here closes quickly. Minister Marin said that preparations for the company would continue, but the timetable was not clear yesterday. I would therefore like to ask how quickly planning can be launched and whether there is time to join the EU search.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u168	Mr President! What will happen to Finland for hardworking people? This has been discussed by many people in the country, especially since the publication of the Red - Green Government Programme. The new government assumes that the system knows better than humans how people’s money should be spent and life organized. He doesn't know. The result is a more expensive everyday life, new prohibitions and restrictions, weaker incentives to work and ultimately a merciless debt rally. The red - green tax stripe is particularly lashing out hard - working middle - incomers. Damage and environmental taxes will be increased by more than EUR 700 million, and the income tax reductions of EUR 200 million promised in return are mere illusions. They are not enough to compensate for tax increases, especially for those on average income. Even the greedy county tax bear is lurking around the corner. The government disciplines trained experts by continuing the additional non-solidarity tax, which is also misleadingly referred to as the solidarity tax. Is anything in Finland as permanent as a temporary tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u173	Mr President! I am slightly correcting this world of alternative reality, where Mr Vestman went. In other words, taxation of people on low and medium incomes will be reduced, not tightened up. In other words, the taxation of people on low and medium incomes will be reduced, not tightened up. It is implemented through a reduction in pension income, a basic deduction and a correction of the reduction in labour income. So the taxation of people on low and medium incomes will be reduced. The fuel tax is 5 cents per litre in 2023 compared to the current level, 5 cents per litre in 2023. According to the consumer price index, it will rise over these years. So, according to the rise in prices, fuel taxation will rise, nothing more. And I would also like to say that I did not recognize any of the figures on congestion charges that you presented. There may be a law that allows congestion charges, decided by the cities, but at no time has their content been identified, at present, in any direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u176	I will give you a few answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u177	Irade the Talman! Indeed, the government does not decide on the congestion charge, but is perhaps making the legislation that makes it possible. And then the cities will decide, and I believe that the coalition is still the largest party in this region, so it is largely in the hands of skilled coalition politicians. If that's what they want, they'll pay. As far as the household allowance is concerned, there are, of course, different views on this, but this entry would not have come if the VM had not found that this had no negative impact on employment. Gas tax: If I understood correctly, the previous speaker, Vestman, on the other hand, disapproved of the increase in gas tax and then resented the traffic charges because they are not fuel-related, i.e. they are not petrol tax increases, and I do not really get through to this circulating logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u178	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne has just said, as Mr Adlercreutz has also said, that this law allowing congestion charges may be imposed. Now, however, the record of the Government Programme seems very uncompromising. It states that such a law, which allows congestion charges to be introduced in urban areas, is laid down. So I would now like to ask you to clarify exactly what you have decided in the government negotiations. I also ask you whether you are not really familiar with the MAL planning for land use, housing and transport in the Uusimaa region, to which I made a direct reference when talking about this annual cost of up to EUR 1600 per annum from the outside of Ring 3. This is the reality. This is a real plan which is currently being drawn up, and it is only expected that such a permissive law will be laid down here in Parliament. I urge you to familiarise yourself with this plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u179	I have registered responses to the representatives of Kärnä, Savola, Viitanen, Eestilä, Kiljunen, Adlercreutz and Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u180	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne responded nicely to this increase in fuel tax that this is indeed an index increase. It's been thrashed here many times now. It's tied to the consumer price index. And then this big picture: the Government Programme has committed itself to a comprehensive reform of transport taxation, which takes account of regional specificities and at the same time ensures that differences in income and wealth do not increase. In the construction of this whole, the government has a lot to consider in what way it will be done, but these framework conditions are quite good. I am surprised at this debate on congestion charges. Personally, I would be happy here in Helsinki, that is, if a billion-dollar public transport system has been built with common tax resources, is it not good to have a system that can encourage its use? Personally, if I were in charge of this city, I would be very pleased that such legislation is coming, and I would like to thank the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u181	Mr President! Extension of soft drinks tax, EUR 50 million; online cashier systems, EUR 140 million in payments; increases in the electricity tax category, EUR 100 million in additional payments; Removal of VAT-free products from outside the EU, EUR 40 million; increase in lottery tax, EUR 50 million; abolition of the right to deduct interest on mortgages, EUR 80 million — huge tax increases and increased costs for ordinary citizens. But where were these from? These were the election programme of the Coalition Party, what the Coalition Party has called for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u182	Mr President! In the same way I was inculcating my gaze as I looked at this tax line of the assembly. There, even the collection of heating fuels would tax, the heating fuels of an ordinary citizen, more than this government would tax. And it would even be a household electricity tax, for God's sake, to increase 100 million — unlike this government. It does not make the electricity tax on households rise, as the Coalition Party hopes. Of course, the assembly at the same time says so, but we then compensate them with tax reductions in general. But however it may be, they would then be tax cuts for the benefit of the good. That's a lot of money for the assembly. It has already been criticised that there should not be the solidarity tax that the most well-off pay so that we can provide good care for our elderly, equal education for our children. Then, ladies and gentlemen, where do you take this money for education when tax cuts are given to well-earned people and ordinary households are vaccinated with increases in electricity tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u183	Mr President! This transport taxation is quite interesting. At least the previous government and its representatives had the impression that there should first be an overall system of transport taxation in the country, and only then will it be assessed how congestion charges are linked to it, because there is a big difference: if there are congestion charges, then — if I have correctly understood — those charges will go to the city, but if there is a comprehensive system, then traffic will be taxed. And I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that with the sense that has been given me, I do not know a tax that is more unfair than the taxation of motor vehicles. It collects more than 6 billion — vehicle tax, car tax, fuel tax and VAT — and there are families in Eastern Finland who have to have two cars, and here you can do with a zero car. I don't know how to have this kind of taxation. Does none of you in the centre begin to criticise how there can be such unfair taxation, which in fact causes segregation at national level? Think about it, ministers, whether we should really do something about this transport taxation, or whether we should continue with a system 30 years old that does not work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u184	Mr President! Perhaps as a general principle of transport taxation, if we want to tax use, then it is a tax on fuel — it is the most obvious tax on use. Mr Vestman, who spoke here about these congestion charges, would be happy to answer as the City Councillor of Vantaa. I am well aware of the problems with these congestion charges here in the capital region, but I also recognize the clear situation that that decision will be made at the City Council of Helsinki, the City Council of Vantaa and Espoo, and so on, if the capital region is concerned. That is where this debate will take place, and I also have the marginal remarks relating to the introduction of this congestion charge: I do not think it is entirely reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u185	Mr President! I agree with Mr Vestman that congestion charges are not necessarily the best way to reduce emissions. That is the main aim of these congestion charges. But I am very surprised that, while HSL, who is also in charge of MAL planning here in the capital region, calls for these congestion charges, at the same time it weakens public transport connections in my own home town of Espoo, for example. So that logic is completely out of control. We should assume that public transport is improved, that people are free to choose, that they want to use fluent human-oriented, user-oriented public transport connections, and not that these congestion charges are forced to come, which makes it different and, in the worst case, restricts, for example, ordinary families with children, their everyday lives, for example, to children's hobbies. Of course, that is in no way fair. However, this government wants to look at this issue fairly in terms of the whole, but there are the keys to a solution in the cities, in HSL, which is run by a coalition. There is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Coalition Party and the Managing Director of HSL is also of the Coalition Party. So if I were you, I'd send a message.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u186	Of course, the capital region is different from the rest of Finland, and I read this concern in Vestman's speech that Uusimaa is a different region than Lapland or Kainuu. That is what this government recognizes: it is being pushed forward on the basis that: A model will be created for the new country, which will be developed in cooperation with municipalities and cities, i.e. every city, every municipality, will have the opportunity to influence how this issue is taken forward. We all know what would have happened to Uusimaa if the model promoted by the previous government, the one that was still in favour a few months ago, had gone to the finish line. This would have meant a deficit of EUR 250 million for the new country in the first year. That's quite a lot, Mr. Vestman and the other members of the coalition. Now we are trying to achieve a different result: we are trying to achieve a result that recognises the specific characteristics of Uusimaa, which is not only socially sustainable but also economically sustainable, a model that does not wreck public finances but strengthens them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u187	At the end of the list I have just read, I will give Mr Vestman, who raised the debate, a final reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u188	Mr President! Mr Savola first of all that the difference between the tax line of the Coalition Party and this programme is that there was a EUR 1 billion reduction in labour taxation in the Coalition Party's programme. You have a reduction of EUR 200 million in labour taxation and an increase of EUR 730 million. 730 million is more than EUR 200 million. Representative to Kärnä: You may know the everyday life of the Lapps, but you are not clearly familiar with the everyday lives of the working families of the Neo-Americans. It is one thing to live in Uusimaa than in the Kallio region of Helsinki. I invite you to get to know the everyday life of Sipoan's family. You can then draw conclusions as to whether such well-functioning public transport connections are available. I would also like to say that you cannot outsource responsibility for this congestion charge now to urban areas. If you decide on such a law and the traffic charge comes to New Zealand, it is your responsibility. This is a tax on the spending limits, which is intended to reduce the vitality and attractiveness of the spending limits municipalities. I understand that this is appropriate for the decision-makers in Helsinki, and this may also be appropriate for the decision-makers in the provinces. Soon no one will be able to afford to live in the spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u189	To the list of speakers, Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u190	Mr President! The government programme under discussion is a work carried out by five parties in cooperation, which, according to my free interpretation, all parties in the government seem to feel their own, i.e. their own party. It is a very good starting point for government cooperation. The government and its programme and the policy of the government are always more or less compromises. That is where every party has to give up and give up somewhere so that something more important to itself goes forward. The compromise as such appears to be a rather mild form of cooperation in this government programme work. The phenomenon-based review of the world situation, the identification of the situation picture and the setting of targets, and the recording of the necessary means, have become a nearly two hundred-page programme that can be described as the production of symbiosis by the five parties — and a positive change in the seed that begins to sprout and hopefully also grows at a pace. Growth is needed. Reaching the 75% employment rate is a tough target, but the targets must be tough. The Government Programme is based on the fact that this is possible when only the economy and the economic cycle remain on a good path to growth. 60,000 new jobs are targeted, and in order to achieve this, more and better employment for those who are capable of part-time work, hard-to-work, young people, older people and those with immigrant backgrounds will play an important role. This also requires efforts to improve the efficiency of employment services. However, the idea here must be followed that encouraging, supporting and training people is more effective than blackmail, coercion and sticking. That is why it is an excellent thing that the government programme has also included the removal of the active model of the punishment of the unemployed, which, I believe, has already begun to be dismantled by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — correct me if I am wrong. Mr President! The driving force for growth and success is the performance of business both internationally and nationally. Finland is well placed to succeed internationally thanks to our high education, expertise and research. The Government Programme aims to contribute to this by supporting research, development and innovation activities more than before. The challenges posed by climate change and the loss of environmental diversity must be taken seriously and influenced not only by their own actions, but also globally. It also offers a great opportunity for Finnish research, product development and thus for the whole of business and Finnish industry. Now that the whole spring has been discussed about wider shoulders, wider shoulders are also needed in the Finnish export industry. Cleantech, bioeconomy and circular economy, among other things, are conducive to bringing strength to the shoulder section of exports there. Small and medium-sized enterprises as employers should also be better taken into account when seeking a higher employment rate. The Government Programme's entries also take into account those objectives, such as the first employee's pay-support approach and, among other things, the promotion of local reconciliation. Mr President! Personally, I am pleased with the objectives and spirit of the Government Programme that it really is now seeking to increase well-being to a large extent. Support for pensioners and families with children will be improved, basic security will be improved and the purchasing power of people with low incomes in general will be improved. The increase in the purchasing power of low incomes is also visible in the cash register of a local small entrepreneur, because when a pensioner receives 50 bucks or more 20s per month for basic income, where does it go? It does not go to investment funds, it usually goes to a pharmacy or a store close to home. This means that it is also visible in employment — entrepreneurs have the opportunity to employ. A positive cycle tends to increase overall well-being and mood. I believe that one of the visible lines of the Government Programme, a policy of prevention of problems, must continue to be a red thread that goes beyond the parliamentary term. It is always cheaper to deal with problems on time than to treat them on the aftercare side expensively if at all, whether it is the welfare of children and young people or, for example, health care. That is why this government line, which strengthens support for children and young people, early childhood education, education and basic health care, is very good. I would also like to say, as a sports person of some appearance, that sport is also being invested in, i.e. EUR 60 million more in sports. The Government Programme also records that the presentations of the Sports Policy Report will be taken forward, and this will make it better possible to do so when funding is increased. Exercise is also important in preventive work when it comes to health care and immobility. We all know that, according to different calculation methods, there will be a fall of several billion if the conditions for exercise are not improved. I wish the Government of Prime Minister Rinte's excellent ministers every success and success, and I support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u191	Mr President! It is quite as it has been said here many times, both yesterday and today, that it is happy that the people voted in favour of change, and now we have managed to implement it with a very good government programme. Let's go in the right direction. Let's go in the right direction. Let's go in the right direction. All in all, inequality will be combated and employment will be improved. The small crack in this debate, both yesterday and today, which has been very unclear to me, has been the line of the coalition which, if I may say so, just now became even more bizarre in that debate. Yesterday, we have tried to ask many times whether the Coalition Party supports additional contributions to education, whether the Coalition Party is in favour of the care of the elderly being put in order. On the one hand, it is as if it were a good idea, but on the other hand, it is criticised that expenditure should not be increased. And, among other things, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Orpo, has just spoken in which he criticised the government for being half-keynesian, in other words, it is now time to cut, he said — now should rather be cut. [ Hulls on the right] Is that what this means now, however, that the Coalition Party is continuing to pursue the previous government's coalition policy of cutting off education, care for the elderly, pensioners, all this? And if that is not the case, if you want to invest, if you are in favour of the education, the care of the elderly, the livelihood of pensioners, if you are in favour of them — which, of course, is what I hope the government is doing — then I would also like you to have a view on where you will find the funding for it, because you are in the same breath, still giving tax cuts to the well-off and, among other things, blaming the solidarity tax. [Sari Multala’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u192	Mr President! As far as universities are concerned, I think it would be a good idea to sell government property for 10 billion and to shake it up in university capital. Think about it instead of this peanut money! But I was actually going to talk about the overall economy, this macro-economic situation. After all, according to the current forecast by the Ministry of Finance, we are now in a position to predict a high economic cycle for the next four years as its economists think, i.e. actual production is forecast to be higher than potential production. That's the definition of a high-situation. Such a period must be used to strengthen public finances. Now we are speculating about what is happening to international development, but what I have just said really means that we are at least in cyclical balance or a little over it. We therefore no longer have much unused resources, and this is reflected in the way in which we run into a shortage of labour. We are starting to run into our own supply constraints, and that means that even if the international economy continues its normal development, we will no longer have a recovery leap in employment and production that we had in 2017-2018. That is why this employment objective is so fierce. A lot of people around here seem to think that it would somehow come partly by itself. During the Sipilä government, it came partly on its own, and the reforms that were made, and which were called too hard, resulted in employment growth of perhaps 40,000. Now, in the next four years, nothing can be counted on any cyclical automatics, because we are already in a normal situation — you will understand that — and then the entire 60,000 will have to be done with various reforms that will strengthen the supply side of the economy, in particular the availability of labour and participation in the labour force, which will reduce structural unemployment. It is no wonder, then, Mr Government, that we, who are reading the government programme and who are unable to find any reforms there to do this, are asking this question, of course. I asked it in my blog, and Vesa Vihriälä, a political science doctor, who was probably an expert in the centre of government negotiations, replied in my blog: “The concerns are well-founded. Indeed, the programme does not include concrete measures to increase labour supply and improve labour supply, which could have an impact by 2023." Well, you clearly have the idea of ordering these reforms from the social partners. However, these same social partners in Finland and in all countries have generally opposed measures to achieve a high level of employment. Yes, it is possible for 60,000, but when the government's starting point is that no sharp-up reforms of incentives will be made, that is, this so-called stick line must not be used, then it will no longer be possible. The recent exit of the Confederation of Finnish Industries lists possible ways, such as the rather sharp differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefits. That would be a hard stick line then. I am sure I will support such good reforms in this Chamber, but I do not see that it is compatible with the rest of the government's thinking. Local agreement is another one that has often been mentioned here — Mr Kempp and Mr Asell talked about this. Well, local agreements in Finland can be promoted in such a way as to increase employment if discriminatory non-organised companies and their non-organised personnel are dismantled. However, when it reads on page 134: ‘Local agreements are promoted through the collective agreement system. “ It is SAK-slang, it has been written there by the SAK negotiator. It means the same thing as in the last period — which is represented by: As a citizen of my corner, you know very well — that legal changes are forbidden! Well, then there's no way local settlement can make any progress. At the same time, when we see that the only concrete proposals that exist in this government programme are those that will reduce employment — family leave reform with this in mind to reduce employment, the dismantling of the active model will reduce employment, the increase in unemployment security and pension benefits will reduce incentives to work — yes, Mr President, it cannot surprise anyone that we are asking here for the credibility of this government programme! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u193	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen, you read only part of that reply from Vipriälä. He notes, however, that you are far too harsh or too hasty in your criticism. In fact, there are checkpoints and safeguard clauses in the programme which are intended to ensure, on the one hand, that policy measures to support employment are taken and, on the other hand, if there is no prospect of achieving this objective, that expenditure decisions taken in the past will be re-assessed. Just as I've said several times here. Representative Vartiainen, this board's starting point, plus 60,000 employees, is tough. That is a hard objective, and I fully understand that there is a concern at the moment about how these concrete measures can be put in place. The Government Programme clearly states that no means are excluded in advance. They will all be reviewed and evaluated from the point of view of achieving these objectives. If the objectives are not met, the expenditure increases included in the Government Programme on top of its technical framework will be re-evaluated and implemented in a different way or not at all. The starting point is that plus 60,000 new jobs must be provided to keep this government's economic policy afloat. You can be left alone, Mr Vartiainen, this is going to happen just fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u194	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen and representative Orpo here earlier have said that here are scattered money and these are just like peanuts when talking about this government's educational investments. We are talking about historic investments, with 260 million for permanent expenditure and 730 million for investment. And I can say when I was at that educational table negotiating for three and a half weeks that this whole field of education — universities and universities — has been completely traumatized since your reign, and now the damage that has been done there has been overcome. Mr Vartiainen is proposing the capitalisation of universities here, and that is also the objective pursued by universities themselves, but not by this financial situation, because only this return on capital can be used for it. But I agree that the emphasis on universities and universities may not be reflected in these investments in higher education as it should be, and there is a lot of work to be done by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u195	Mr President! I think we are at the heart of what Mr Vartiainen went through in his own speech and how the Prime Minister responded to it. If I understood the Prime Minister's answer correctly, then it was that, if this employment objective is not met, expenditure increases will be reduced or abandoned. Does this mean, for example, that the EUR 50 that comes to those small pensioners may not come? Does that mean that compulsory education will not be extended if there is no money for it? Does that mean that there will be no agri-environmental compensation if there is no money for it? And what else? Does that mean that the money that is coming to nature conservation, 100 million, will not come because we cannot afford it? If that is what it means, then our concern about this economic situation is unfounded, but it is not a concern in itself. Because these things are good for what you are putting this money into.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u196	Mr President! The basic line of government's economic policy is that the employment rate is rising. It is not just a matter of this term of government, this parliamentary term, but if we are going to succeed as a welfare state in the future - we are going to ensure that pensioners receive sufficient income and care, and if we want to ensure that our children will receive good education at all levels in the future and that level of education will rise so that we can manage in the 2030s and later - it will require us to raise the employment rate of the Finnish working-age population. We have an ageing population for the working-age population, and every year more people are needed to work for the people of working age. That is why this employment rate target is the most important thing for the sustainability deficit of Finnish society as a whole. It must be taken care of regardless of who is standing here talking and taking things forward. The starting point is that in the 2030s we must have an employment rate of more than 80%, and that is what this government is now moving towards. It ensures that Finnish society, the welfare state manages and that these important services for Finnish people can be implemented as services for the welfare state. These are extremely important issues that must be taken forward together. This government believes in it and is committed to increasing the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u197	To the list of speakers, Mr Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u198	Mr President! Now we are at the heart of the debate. These last speeches are all related to the government's economic policy. Mr President, having received this prestigious task, he made a fine speech in which he said that he wanted a culture of debate which could be glaring but in which we listen to each other and try to understand what the other has meant and then we argue with the facts. I have not written this in advance. This is not a line in which I would now repeat a dozen good things in the government programme. Nor am I going to spend the whole five minutes demonising the opposition's speeches. I'm not saying that I'm out of control here, as a representative said yesterday. I am not really surprised at anything — this is quite normal between the opposition and the government — but I try to see for myself what we may agree on, as amazing as it may now sound in this debate, and my conclusion is as follows: Central government budget expenditure amounts to EUR 55.3 billion. The Government Programme includes EUR 1.2 billion in decision-making increases in permanent expenditure, note that not all are coming directly to next year's budget but during the Government's term of office. That is 2% of this state budget. So, of 98%, do we agree that it is at the bottom of the budget, as it is now, and now we are discussing whether these 1.2 billion are correctly weighted or whether they should be stressed in some other way? Here are some very important figures. I have mentioned this figure of 1.2 billion, and, as has often been mentioned here, EUR 730 million of it would become an increase in tax revenue estimates — in fact, EUR 960 million, as tax is proposed to be reduced to EUR 230 million in order to face it more in solidarity than it is currently facing. Then there is an estimate of EUR 300 million, the increase in employment that will increase public finances, there will be EUR 84 million from unused funds, and then there will be a reduction of EUR 200 million from the current budget. Of the 200 million, 100 million were for business subsidies, and when I listened to the radio this morning when I came here, the representative of the business association himself said that perhaps 300 to 400 million would have been more appropriate to reduce these subsidies, but it is difficult to find unity in these matters, as has been observed here in previous periods. Yesterday there was a great deal of wondering about these one-off investments in the future. I am now trying to illustrate that logic with just one small example. This is from the smallest point of view, but I think that this is an excellent example. We have free contraception here in the government program for under 25-year-olds. Yesterday they asked if it was meant to end after 23 C.E. We are currently aware — this was published in the Doctor’s magazine last winter — that the City of Vantaa’s experiment on free contraception for under 23-year-olds. It reduced abortions in the entire population of Vantaa by one fifth but teen abortions by one third. At the cost of one reduced abortion — and now I am not referring to its human suffering costs, but to the purely cost accounting of the hospital — we get 20 people free-of-charge prevention. This means a new type of future thinking of this kind, that we can put the money at a certain cost, then, in the second, there will be savings in this dynamic economy, and then, in a few years' time, when we reassess the situation, those savings will allow us to continue this activity. This is the logic which, of course, is also involved in a hundred times greater matters. An excellent government programme, and let us say now that a rather excellent debate is also taking place here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u199	Mr President! In the parliamentary elections, the SDP promised a change for the people. The Government Programme of Prime Minister Rinte’s Government will deliver on that promise in an almost excellent way. I appreciate the fact that, from the point of view of economic, social and environmental sustainability and justice, the government parties have brought together a balanced and ambitious programme. The Government Programme points the way to a better future. It builds a society where more and more people are doing well. In addition, it offers realisticly viable solutions to the challenges of the near future, such as the implementation of social welfare reform at last. Mr President! The government believes in man. It dismantles the active model that disciplines the unemployed and invests in the livelihood of the low-income. The government's employment objective is, of course, ambitious, but only possible in this time period. The objective of extending compulsory education is to ensure that all young people have the strongest possible knowledge base on which to build their own lives. That's what we all want. As far as transport is concerned, it is important that we start to shorten the road repair debt on the basis of parliamentary preparation. Transport links play an extremely important role in growth and vitality. All of us in the province know that. That is why investing in the transport network, both in the lower road network and in major rail projects, is extremely important. It is impossible to stress too much the importance of the hour train project for the development of southern Finland as a whole. It is therefore important that the project should be pursued with determination as quickly as possible. It is also positive that sustainable policy guidelines for the use of project companies were drawn up during the Government Programme negotiations at the Statytalo. One single thing must be to thank the Government Programme for the departure of the previous government’s failure to repair the taxi reform. It is unfortunate that the whole reform cannot be put on a shredder. However, it is now important to correct what can be corrected. Mistakes in pricing and taxi delivery, among other things, must be addressed without delay. There is feedback from citizens about, among other things, the excessive inactivity of Kela taxis, while we still know that in these cases it is very often a sick person or a group of people for whom a taxi is the only mode of transport. Mr President! The Government Programme will build the future by investing in projects on which Finland will continue to grow. Investments in technology projects to mitigate climate change are particularly important. It is possible to make Finland a pioneer in clean technology for decades from now. This brings together the objectives of combating climate change and promoting growth and employment. The possibilities are great. There is a need for decisive action to make use of them. Companies have a major role to play here. The state is involved in supporting and enabling innovation, product and service products and, of course, exports. I really hope that, at least with this phenomenon and with this opportunity, we do not have to stare at opposition and government boundaries. It is in the interests of the whole Parliament that we succeed. The Government will also invest in knowledge, education and research. In this respect, too, there will be a complete turnaround in the previous government's policies. It is research and knowledge that will best build tomorrow's well-being and the competitiveness of our common country. Over the last period, disproportionate cuts were made to secondary education, among other things, and now these tracks need to be corrected. In the Government Programme, EUR 235 million has been presented to teachers in vocational education and training, and it is up to this Chamber to ensure that the whole amount is spent on teaching, i.e. hiring teachers. Mr President! I feel that we have a government which has not only economic opportunities but also the will to invest in the future and to improve the well-being of people. The Government Programme and ministerial choices are only a first step. I am aware that there is a great deal to be expected of this government, and I am also aware that there will be pitholes along the way. But the people are also waiting for unity after the compromises, which are always included in the government programme. I told you before that the government believes in a human being. It is in the hands of the Parliament that people believe in us as the decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u200	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Prime Minister Rinne for the well-drawn process of government negotiations. Of course, I have to be honest with you that when the centre as the only government party from the last period was dropped there in the midst of the entire previous opposition, we were a little surprised at first. But the negotiations went well and confidence was built well in the negotiations. The programme has been good, it is very well balanced both regionally and socially, and it is worth supporting. As far as the objectives of the centre are concerned, the threshold issues that we proposed for us to take part in this process were well incorporated in this programme, and I am very proud of that. Mr. Speaker! When this process was started, the tweets began to launch in social media, especially from a few coalition politicians. This final result of our negotiations has already been condemned, particularly as regards work and entrepreneurship. But when you look at this program, what does it include for entrepreneurs? Firstly, taxation is not being tightened in terms of employment, whereas taxation on low and medium incomes is being calculated. Entrepreneurial deduction, which is particularly important for small entrepreneurs, will remain unchanged. Local agreements will be promoted. The social and pension security of entrepreneurs will be improved. The increase in Alvi’s lower limit is explained to be raised to EUR 15000. Recruitment of the first employee will be facilitated, start-up entrepreneurs will be supported, cooperative business activities will be promoted, and entrepreneurs will also be able to cope by promoting change of ownership, and this will be the subject of their own programme. Important things for entrepreneurship. As far as agriculture is concerned, as far as forestry is concerned, it is an extremely important record for agriculture that there should be no additional costs without compensation. In other words, if there are additional costs for farmers, they will be compensated. New farms will be given access to organic commitments also at the end of the parliamentary term. And when we talk about agriculture and forestry, we talk about taxation. Most importantly, there will be no real estate tax on agricultural and forestry land. It's not like they're taxing laurels to get a job done. The Animal Welfare Act will be implemented during this parliamentary term on the realistic basis on which the foundations were laid during the last period. In addition to promoting generational exchanges, it is absolutely essential for all of us in Finland to produce food, and this also involves investing in agriculture in the future, and that is why Makera, the Agricultural Development Fund, will also be capitalised in this parliamentary term. All in all, the role of the farmer has been well taken care of in this programme, and one example of this is that this balance is now being sought better between trade, industry and farmers, so that the producer also receives its own fair price for the production of food. We must invest in food exports. I am very proud that we have an excellent Minister for Exports, Mr Skinner, who will certainly make an effort to ensure that we also get exports going well for the food industry. When you look at this whole, adding that forests can continue to be exploited in a balanced and sustainable way, I believe and hope that the Senate Square will not be filled during this parliamentary term, because this will be able to ensure that the farmer manages and is able to rely on this government in that respect as well. Mr. Speaker! A brief description of the foreign and security policy line. A stable line is maintained, there will be no major changes. Finland will continue to be a security provider, a desired partner among different parties internationally. International training activities will continue, although there was some suspicion here yesterday. The general military service and the trained reserve are the basis for all of this. The HX successor project will be fully implemented from large projects, as will the Fleet 2020 project. So here, too, worry about it. Mr. Speaker! A programme of regionally and socially balanced government — I think it is easy to support this, and so I support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u201	Mr President! Antti Rinte's Government Programme can be described as "all-time fun" paper. The programme promises all kinds of good and worthwhile in itself, but without a vision of how this country will be developed responsibly and in the light of economic law. The government spends money, other people's money, on numerous small projects. It would be possible, with the distribution of money in the Government Programme, to bring about great improvements to the situation in our country permanently if the funds were not spread there for new expenses. In the language of these government rulers, it seems that all forms of consumption are now an investment. The new costs proposed by the government are financed by tax increases, borrowings and the sale of state property, and the funding is sufficient only while the Rinte Government is in power. When this season is over, the incoming Parliament will be in front of the tenkkapoo, where to get money for the new expenditure machines built by Rinte. The economic plan is based on oversized wishful thinking, including the fact that our economy would grow by as much as 2 percentage points a year this year. Well, he won't. We are in a cyclical cycle at a time when a significant growth leap cannot be predicted. Public finances and structures would have a great deal to make up for. Now that growth has been achieved after many years of dwindling — and to a significant extent thanks to the co-operative policy and the efforts made by the previous Sipilä Government — what is this government doing? The government thinks it's time to share. Sure, if there was something to share, but there isn't. The concept of the content of the distribution bag is based on wishful thinking and debt-taking. What this Rinte government now shares, our children will pay. It is good in itself that the government should pay attention to increasing employment. However, the company is impertinent and its activities are without prospects. Artificial support employment is offered as a medicine, and the thought-intensive part of finding a solution is outsourced to the Prime Minister's former colleagues, the Ay movement and labour market organisations. It would be interesting to know what kind of promise the Ay system has already made to Rinte when it is so strongly thrown into the hands of Parliament and non-governmental actors. Support employment is a transfer of money from one pocket to another from a state perspective. It is not by pushing aid policy that employment improves; there must be a draw on the labour market, a suck-up. If, in this way, the emphasis on increasing employment is placed on the employment of part-time workers, on pay support and so on, it is clear that the growth of one percentage point in employment will not bring about the positive impact of the government's promise of EUR 1 billion on central government finances. Of course, these employment measures are of human value and importance, but they will not have the desired economic impact. Employment growth and a sustainable economy can only be based on profitable companies and the jobs they create, jobs for which wages are paid by enterprises and not by state subsidies. How the demand for such a workforce will develop and what the government is doing about it is an empty page in the Rinte government program, an unwritten magazine. There's no way. In the Government Programme, it is completely secondary to the issue of who creates and where they are. They are not self-evident and genuine jobs are not created through support measures. In practice, only the SME sector will generate these new jobs, and this will only happen if companies grow and succeed. This is obviously something that the government cannot admit for ideological reasons, because someone's success is a real poison to those who believe in the socialist economic policy of the government programme. Instead of the genuine development of the labour market and society as a whole, Rinne offers standards, tax increases, artificial subsidies, new constraints in a situation where people's creativity and desire should be vindicated. It is typical of the left-wing government throughout the world: more and higher taxes, more transfers, new coercive measures, new laws and so on. Of course, the government will take care of its own: employment will be improved by hiring a significant number of people who have fallen from Parliament as secretaries of state for the government's service. Mr President! The Government Programme is unrealistic and puts our country on the path of regression. The left-wing government on the slopes is screwing the economy into its own hands and killing hard work in Finland. I agree with the motion of censure put forward by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u202	We will take a few speeches and we will have the debate a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u203	Mr President! The historical turning point is often difficult to detect when it is being lived. Two years ago we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Finnish Declaration of Independence. For us posterity, it is clear that this was an historic turning point, but the contemporaries were not so sure. In the newspapers of the next few days, it was a little news and the comments were cautious in style to see if independence actually came true. Of course, we do not yet know whether future generations will see the climate records of the Rinte government and its programme as an historic turning point, but I consider that possible. After all, all other social objectives will lose their meaning if climate change is not curbed. Now the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere is already higher than ever before in the human race. We are transforming the conditions of our planet into something our species has no experience of. All of you who, in themselves, are concerned about the sustainability of the economy: please remind me that the most expensive is the delay in climate action. The worst sustainability gap is climate debt. Anyone understands that it would make no sense to try to prosper by destroying their home. The hardest thing to understand is that wealth cannot last if it is created by destroying the life - sustaining systems of the home planet. Now the message of researchers is finally starting to reach both the business world and politics. For the first time in history, the Government Programme sets a carbon neutrality target year for Finland and also shows a historical increase in the protection of biodiversity. As Emma Kari said in the Greens' group speech, we welcome the criticism that the opposition is blackmailing us for better. It is great that some members of the opposition are calling for more concrete action on climate issues. Thank you also, for example, to Kai Mykkänen and Sari Essayah of the Christian people, who were negotiating a common climate agenda for eight parliamentary parties last December. We Greens are doing everything we can to ensure that the ambitious climate objectives of the Government Programme are also implemented in practice. For the first time, the Government Programme calls for the EU's climate target to be tightened and promises to strengthen carbon sinks in both the short and the long term and to update the Climate Law in line with these. Another hope is that there is a wider group of Finns behind this than ever before. In addition to young people who wake up on a climate strike, it has also been understood in industry and the financial world that there is no business on a dead planet. Last autumn, the Confederation of Finnish Industries called for a 1.5-degree climate policy, and recently the European umbrella organisation took a similar position. Finland manages best by developing and implementing climate solutions that the whole world needs. For myself, these were the fifth government programme negotiations, and I have never been in a situation where the same tax change has been driven by the Confederation of Finnish Industries, the Finnish Climate Panel and the university researchers who have investigated the transition to fossil-free district heat. This change is the abolition of the industrial energy tax cutter and the savings of 230 million will reduce the industrial electricity tax. It makes it possible to build district heat production based on other than combustion, including the use of various waste heat with large heat pumps. It will improve the possibilities of replacing fossil fuels with electricity, including in industry, which will encourage new investments. And, of course, there are things that need to be specified. When coal is stopped, peat remains the worst source of energy production. In order for Finland to become truly fossil-free in the 2030s, more detailed decisions are needed to stop peat burning and to remove peat tax base. The Government Programme promises a comprehensive reform of energy taxation by next summer's budget debate. In agriculture, the main source of emissions is the grubbing up of peatlands into fields for the application of livestock manure. The Government Programme includes both money and means so that we can use manure as biogas for transport and machinery and the rest of it for recycling. This helps water bodies, produces clean fuel for transport and reduces the need to clear new peat fields. Mr President! The Government Programme creates hope that there will be a future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u204	Mr President! I am going to make a slightly different opposition statement in the sense that I was going to go through the good things that this entails, because some of them were also those that I myself conducted in the election campaign. However, first of all, it must be said that the government's economic policy is based on an over-optimistic economic scenario, and when it inevitably or very likely results in either abstinence from the already agreed increases in expenditure, cutting other expenditure or making fiscal increases that balance the economy, and when it is very unlikely that the government will be able to agree on these, then the outcome will be an increase in debt, and then a quick hand will be taken over by future generations. I hope that I am wrong in this analysis. Now, however, these positive things. I am particularly pleased that the young people's hobby moon, the so-called Icelandic model, is now being promoted and allocated EUR 14.5 million. The results of Iceland show that when each young person is offered an opportunity for at least one goalful hobby, exclusion will be significantly reduced. As a by-product, there will be success in sport and culture, which will raise the positive national spirit. It is also a good thing to invest in vocational training. There is an urgent need for more local lessons. This is necessary to guarantee the quality of education. Students must have clear school days and teachers enough hours to keep qualified teachers at work. The big minus is, of course, that additional investments are financed by one-off revenue, i.e. the sale of state property. Then what do we do when the money runs out? Will the employment of teachers be terminated or will more government property be sold? The positive thing is that the role of municipalities in managing employment is strengthened. For example, very good results were achieved in Pirkanmaa during the municipal trial. Municipalities are better equipped than the Ely Centre to trail hard-to-work people. This is particularly effective in smaller employment areas where both unemployed and potential employers are known. It is also important that more money should be made available for agriculture in such a way that the continuation of the environmental compensation is secured and, through Makera, investment support is made available for developing farms. Of course, time will show where the financial framework for agriculture and rural areas in Finland will end up at EU level in 2021-27 and whether the Rinte Government will still have the money to compensate for potential losses to Finnish agriculture and rural areas. It is also a good thing that, when there is an indisputable need to strengthen the financing of basic services, as confirmed by all the parties here together in the last period, it will receive the EUR 300 million, which will then be able to better guarantee the functioning of day-to-day transport. It is also positive that there will be an increase in the number of police officers, but I must say that unfortunately not enough. Before the elections, the joint will of the parties was to increase the number of police officers by 650. Now that rise will be 300 new police officers. In fact, the Tampere Police College, which is trained by the police in Finland, had already prepared for higher levels of education, and also a significant number of applicants have an interest in the police profession, so this potential is now untapped. The positive thing, however, is that there are more police officers than before. In a good spirit, I wish you good luck with the incoming Rinte government. You can also serve the country from the opposition. The Coalition Party will do so responsibly and firmly. We will not allow this country to be left more indebted to the next generation. That is why we will monitor in particular the achievement of the economic and employment objectives of the Rinte Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u205	We will take two more from the actual list of speakers and then we will have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u206	Mr President! Today and yesterday we have discussed very much and on many sides of this government programme. I particularly welcome the debate today on children and families with children. I personally believe that this government programme has a lot of good things for the future, especially for families with children. Young people and families with children also have faith in the future. It's important. In the previous speech, Mr Satonen drew attention to the focus on physical activity and physical activity. It is also a good thing that this Government Programme pays attention to it and invests in it and moves forward with the report on sports policy that has been presented in the last parliamentary term, the things that were mentioned there. This has already come from many quarters in Finland to thank you for the fact that, for the first time, we really want to focus on these issues as well. When you read that 190-page government programme, it has to be said that every issue that the centre has put on the ten key issues of participation in the government will be implemented there, and there will also be much more important issues for the centre. If they were all to be listed, time would by no means be enough, but I personally say that it is important that we commit ourselves to maintaining a good economic and employment development with a commitment to the employment rate of 75% and also to the balance of public finances in 2023. The profitability of Finnish agriculture will be improved and agriculture and forestry will not be burdened with new costs. It is also a good thing that the government is committed to ensuring that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses is not tightened. The position of entrepreneurs will therefore be improved. Social and health care services are secured on the basis of 18 multidisciplinary provinces. This is a good starting point for the Centre, and we need to make use of the very extensive groundwork that has been done over the last period. It must not be wasted. Problems in the treatment of older people are addressed by tightening up legislation and increasing resources. It is also important to implement the family package of family leave reform in such a way that the reform is an improvement to the current system. It must genuinely listen to families and there must also be freedom of choice for families. The Government Programme will raise the minimum pensions and improve the position of families with low incomes. This will also reduce inequalities. Investing in education and investing in it is very positive for the future, and when we have had to cut it in recent periods, it is very good that we are now able to invest in it at every stage. The availability of higher education will be strengthened and each province will continue to have its own higher education institution. The status and funding of university centres will be secured. This has already become positive feedback from universities. The Government Programme also commits to the climate programme of the eight parties in the last parliamentary term and at the same time ensures a moderate increase in the use of wood and the sustainable use of forests. So let us implement a sensible forestry policy so that Finnish forestry can continue to feel well. I believe that one of the main contents of the Government Programme is that it supports the vitality of the regions, improves and develops the connections of the whole of Finland. We are now investing in the condition of roads of all degrees, the larger roads in better condition, and the lower road network, and the railways. It is important that the funding for basic transport infrastructure management is increased by EUR 300 million per year for the whole period and that investment is also made in winter maintenance. EUR 20 million will be reserved for renovations on private roads per year and the planning of three large railway projects will be launched. Mr President! This government programme has been possible when the infrastructure of society is in order, thanks also to the improvement of Finland's economy and employment during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u207	Mr President! I consider that the programme of this government is aimed at the long future by taking into account and appreciating the whole of Finland as the main element of this government programme. The economic reforms and improvements made during the last parliamentary term, which raised the Finnish economy from the swamp, give us the chance that we will be able to continue to improve Finland's economy and, above all, that economic improvement aims to increase the employment rate. The 75% employment rate and its achievement during this parliamentary term is certainly the most important thing for the Government of Prime Minister Antti Rinte. Only through work and doing will we be able to build the society that belongs to all of us Finns, where there are good services and where we can live both in the countryside and in the city. Of course, the city centre’s way to the government through these closing government negotiations was not easy. As soon as the election came to an end, it was clear that the way to the centre was the way of the opposition, but when the government confessions went the way they did, then the government negotiations with the centre began, and our ten-point list became a reality, and it is a strong part of this government programme that is now under discussion. It is worth remembering, however, that if we want new growth and new work in this country, we must be determined to develop the country as a whole. It is very important for the city centre, as I said, that this employment rate is realised and that work is available all over Finland. For example, when the use of forests is discussed, it may seem to be the most popular topic in today's media, at least on the basis of the huge amount of forest expertise in Finland. It warms the man’s heart just how much forest expertise there really is in this country. The continued efficient and good use of forests ensures that Finland is able to process forest products even further and, above all, to market new products that will then enable a better standard of living in this country. Consider, for example, the fossil economy that we have been living in for the past decades. Much oil, coal and many other things have been burned in this country, which have caused us to be a technologically world leader. Now that we have chosen the path of investing in renewable energies in this country in a huge amount, it has led us to a path that is already in place at the moment that, at the annual level, every year, Finland's climate emissions by a few percentage points will be reduced all the time. When the consequences of climate change have been discussed, it is always forgotten that this public debate is very judgmental and that we must suddenly put out the fire and put an end to all the things that there is no basis for doing so. We will continue on the same calm line and reduce emissions and, above all, Finland will become cleaner, and we will do our own job well and at the same time open up a huge export market for Finnish industry and sell this same technology to countries where there is no information about this technology. In other words, we have all the keys to growth in this country in our hands when we only make sure that, under Prime Minister Rinte's government, we continue on this path with determination, using our own raw materials, know-how and know-how, and investing in education, as we have done, and also in research and product development. All the keys to that growth, to the growth of the future, we have ourselves in our own pocket at the moment. We are also committed to looking at this much-spoken employment rate and the objective of achieving 75% and creating 60,000 new jobs. This will be genuinely examined throughout the entire reign. This is not a dead letter, but the Council of State, led by Prime Minister Rinte, could say almost every day to check where it is going, and if, in the mid-2020 review, the situation then seems to require measures in 2020 to address the development of this situation, then it will be done accordingly. The government genuinely has the potential to take remedial measures according to what the situation requires. During this debate in the Chamber, when I have listened to the comments as to how bad things seem to be in this country at the moment, I can say that the words of comfort are not very bad, however. The employment situation has developed all the time and it is maintained in the same trend. We will see to it, as President Vanhanen said in his opening speech, that we will understand each other's speeches more and more, and then we will refrain from making such pointless comments, because by-passing and misunderstanding in this Chamber should be reduced to nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u208	Now, for a moment, I will give you the opportunity to respond to the previous speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u209	Mr President! Earned speeches, and Mr Satonen was very good at complimenting the government, but, in turn, Mr Kopra did allow the whole thing to happen. It was somewhat unclear whether it was now constructive or not. I would also like to remind Mr Kopra of the way he spoke about the employment rate and the tripartite preparation. I considered that the replies of the Coalition Party to the Government Confessor were as follows: ‘Work life regulation must be developed in cooperation with and consultation with the social partners. In order to achieve a higher employment rate, the responsibility lies also, and in particular, with the partners in the labour market.” That is exactly how the Coalition Party answered the questions of the Government Confessor, and that is exactly how the Government will work now, actively working together, so that no one has to go to the Senate Square. It was also unclear — although I was sometimes there — that when these billion - grade tax reductions were included in the electoral programme, which would actually cover the entire billion - grade tax reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u210	Mr President! The previous representative, Mr Hoskonen, spoke quite harshly here, which of course tells us about the work of the government, because if Mr Hoskonen, the representative of the party belonging to the government, says that we are going only on this line, which has now gone on, then I think that this is a completely different speech from what has just been heard from the Environment Minister or, in particular, from the representatives of the Greens. Is it really the case that we can only go on this line, increase wood burning and deal with the environmental issue with this current job? At least, then, we will not have much to knock on the beak for the Finns of Finland if we do not take any drastic action, as Mr Hoskonen has just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u211	Mr President! Mr Ovaska, you have just questioned in the Chamber whether the assembly has had a credible alternative to proposing compensation for the reduction in the tax burden on labour, and I encourage and urge Mr Ovaska to go through the programme that we published in the run-up to the parliamentary elections, which has set out to the effect that this reduction in the labour billion has been compensated by the tightening of indirect and harmful taxes. But, Mr President, this difference between the coalition and the government is that, unlike us, the government is not prepared to compensate for these tax increases for employees and pensioners, but to take the money from them so that all this expenditure can then be financed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u212	Mr. Speaker! I wanted to reply to Mr Kopra, whose speech, as has been said a short time ago, was very different from that of Mr Satose, even though it is from the same party. In that way Koprahan painted this entire government program in some way, and stated that the parties behind it represent a social model with a high tax rate, extensive public regulation and extensive public services. It occurred to me very much that it is perhaps the so-called Nordic welfare model, which is the most prestigious social model in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u213	Mr President! It must be said to Mr Marttinen from the outset that this government has been raising the level of basic security for a long time, specifically addressing the problems of poverty, the problems of inequality and doing a huge job on its programme and the presentations needed to raise the 30,000 poor who were made by the coalition government during the last parliamentary term when the Finns were there, out of poverty. We are working hard to get them out of the poverty line, but we are prepared to do so and have made numerous entries in the government programme. This extension of compulsory schooling is part of the work to stop the development of inequality, but the most important thing is, in fact, to target taxation so that we invest more money in the rich and compensate the poor for what has now been said about fuel tax and many other harmful taxes when they are raised. The indexes will be returned in full while you cut them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u214	Mr President! We have been talking here today about climate policy, about unemployment targets or about combating the shadow economy. I am concerned about the plans to cut the household allowance. Indeed, this is strongly linked to all these elements. This has been a great help in implementing the energy renovations in the detached houses. The household allowance has also brought work to small entrepreneurs — I know as a former entrepreneur in the construction sector. If this reduction is achieved, the golden times of plastic bag entrepreneurs will come. The tools of these entrepreneurs fit in a plastic bag, and they naturally do not pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u217	Mr President! This is where Mr Vartiainen brought up these unorganised companies. Unfortunately, he is no longer here to hear, but it is only by organizing that unorganised entrepreneurs and businesses can get to the table. That way you can agree on these common working conditions, which are also the backboard for everyone, because it can always be better agreed and the TES is just the backboard so that it doesn't get worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u218	Mr President! They've really been asking me what the Coalition Party would have done. I believe that the purpose of this debate is precisely to discuss what this government is now going to do and wants to do, and that is why we feel it is perfectly right to ask and reflect on what is being said in this government programme of yours. I would like to return for a moment to these records of the family leave reform which Mr Blomqvist previously read out. And when it really is still available on Yle's website, that in practice the so-called 5+5+5 model has already been agreed, i.e. that this free share would be around five months, is it, therefore, precisely the great flaw that the free share is currently being used by the mother? Since I want to tighten up this government on better solutions and I hope that the labour market table will find a solution to this particular increase in flexibility for family leave, how about a model in which the law would provide a backboard for that minimum of flexibility, but if it were to be desired, the employer and employee could even agree at local level on how to use family leave? This would make it possible to genuinely increase flexibility, and the number of part-time jobs would certainly increase and both parents could be both at work and at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u219	Mr President! Like Mr Satose, I am very pleased with this part of our programme on sports and culture and the fact that we are now really trying to get all children and young people to have a pleasant hobby in connection with school day. This is precisely the kind of extremely important preventive action that also has the most valuable and effective results in retrospect, so that we do not even need to take corrective measures. In any case, I think this government programme is illustrated by the fact that we are also investing in advance so that we do not have to intervene afterwards. This also means investing in education, investing in early childhood education, getting primary school in order, second grade too, and making new contributions to higher education institutions so that they can take care of their own strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u220	Mr President! I have been here for 16 years now, a little fair, and I have always wondered whether this debate must be of a level that every representative of the government party will use the best possible means to praise the government programme and every member of the opposition will try to bark. Perhaps it would be more intelligent to have this debate if we could genuinely go through the things that are good and those that involve challenges. On that basis, at least I made my own contribution. As such, I fully agree with Mr Vartiainen on the economic analysis. But it is also the view of the Assembly that, of course, when the final sum of the budget is raised by 1.2 billion, there are also some good things inside that we can agree on and move Finland forward. And I think it's also worth saying those positive things when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u221	Mr President! Mr Santose's speech was very welcome, and it would certainly be good if the opposition could agree with that. But the further this debate has gone in the days, the more it has started to become good voices from that opposition direction. While there is no Minister for Labour in the previous government, I will now ask — once the talk has risen from these 140 000 new jobs during the last term of government — whether anyone on the part of the current opposition could tell what kind of jobs these 140 000 have had,because the elections were well-complexed to the message that he has been employed for two or three hours in the week and that he has been employed and is not likely to do so. Would one of you be able to tell me what this real number is?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u223	Minister Blomqvist asked for a reply. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u224	Madam President! Mr Multala said well about these objectives as regards this reform of the family leave, which must be pursued, and yes, the government has similar objectives. The reform of family leave will be carried out in partnership with the social partners, with the aim of ensuring that we have equal freedom and care responsibilities between both parents and that gender equality and equality in working life are strengthened. This is what has been agreed in the Government Programme and this is now being prepared. I am convinced that we will have a good reform of family leave, which also responds to these wishes which have now been expressed by Mr Multala, among others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u225	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u226	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, especially you on the other side of the Chamber, this is a serious matter which I am now saying, and this may be difficult to understand, but I hope that you will be able to put yourself at the level of such a simple person and actually take this into account there. There is talk here of employment growth. I myself belong to a critical population of immigration. I believe that the fight against immigration is due to the great feeling of injustice experienced by some people. I shall try briefly to give an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u227	Madam President! Mr Laakso's speech just expressed doubts about the importance of renewable energy or its relevance. Yes, if Finns really want to develop this country, then we need to invest more and more in our own raw materials, and when renewable energy is used, we need to remember that the Government Programme clearly states that wood, fibrewood or logwood for further processing is directed to where the best added value is achieved and is not exported to incineration. This is a clear line of government policy. It must also be taken into account when developing the forestry industry — although the new bioproduct factory, pulp mill, Äänekoski, as an example — is itself a huge producer of energy, it produces a terrible amount of electricity for the grid. As I recall, the amount of electricity produced by Äänekoski is about 2% of our total electricity demand — one factory. Then it produces heat and many other chemicals, which can be further processed even though bio-oils can be used as fuel for cars. You have to see the whole and not look at one point, because Finland has all the opportunities and technology and knowledge in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u228	Mr President! In this Chamber, for God knows how many times we are now disapproving the government's cutting down on a certain amount of household allowance, I now say, for the sake of review, that the household allowance is used most by the most high-income families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u229	My lady! Mr Hokkonen just happened to get out of there. I stayed and watched a little bit. As an entrepreneur in the recycling sector, I could have answered it right away, because I know exactly what Mr Hoskone was talking about in his reply and how important it is to treat so-called renewable energy waste rather than coal. But we were not talking about this, we were talking about what is, so to speak, a political objective in terms of the environment, that is to say, whether it is enough to deal with this issue, the environmental requirements that have been discussed in this government programme, only at this level, to manage our energy dependence by means of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u230	Madam President! In fact, it was said here yesterday at the top of the debate that certain good things could be taken forward together. These include, for example, additional savings in education, additional investments in care for the elderly, important issues of this kind. What has given rise to confusion here and why we have also asked about the assembly is that, on the one hand, the message of economic policy, at least in part, is that there is nothing to be done and the stupid one has an economy and so far away, and we have wondered about it. I think it is quite appropriate to have a political debate, and I still do not have the answer, President, as to whether the Assembly is now in favour of these additional contributions to education or not. President! In fact, what was positive about this was that some sort of consensus was found, among other things, in the fact that we understand how important it is for every child to have the opportunity to engage, to understand how important it is for more to be invested in sports and to understand how important it is for culture and the creative economy to be promoted. What we could do together in Parliament, President,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u231	Mr President! Mr Ronkainen asked earlier about the household allowance, and that is obviously a good way to make it easier for households to use services, and it has contributed to the fact that there is less black economy and there have been service companies. What this government does, however, is a very small adjustment: we drop it from 2,400 to 2,200, per cent from 50 to 40. You talked about energy renovations, and now we are also thinking about extending it to the cost of planning energy renovations and extending it to the shareholders of housing companies. In other words, while small fine - tuning in amounts and percentages is being made, there is also an attempt to extend usability and thus to bring more people within its scope. Generally speaking, climate objectives: If you look at the future a little bit and wonder which industries will grow with certainty, that is the cleantech sector. If we are ambitious now, as we are in Finland, and we create a domestic market for our own companies, where they can gain ground and grow and thus, over time, move to export markets, then we are doing not only for the climate, but also for our industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u232	I will now give the floor to each group, and then we will give the ministers the answers, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u233	Madam President! Several members of the coalition have been concerned about the position of entrepreneurs, and I would like to assure you that the government has specifically recognised in its programme that entrepreneurship is the bearer of Finland and that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses will not be tightened. In addition, the operating conditions of start-ups will be facilitated. Also, when I look at Katri Kulmun, the Minister of Economic Affairs from Lapland, I can assure the whole of Finland and all entrepreneurs that your affairs are in good and very entrepreneurial hands. Mr Satonen has already left, but he is critical of this too small number of police officers. It is quite true that all parties involved in the government negotiations would have liked to have raised the number of policemen even higher. Now we are being criticised for having to recognise the realities of the economy, that we could not afford to do so at this stage. This 300 policemen is an excellent start, and it is good to move on and move on from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u234	Madam President! The Coalition Party has first said that we should sprinkle money here and there, and then we have gone through almost every expenditure point where there is not enough money, so the logic of the Coalition Party has been completely lost. A few details: Of the household allowance: The expert's assessment was that the effect on the workplace, if implemented in this way, is zero. So this is the kind of fear that was presented here, fortunately there is no need to be afraid. Reduction of labour taxation as proposed by the Assembly: Again, in the government negotiations, many experts — I was in the economic group myself — were consulted, and it was estimated that the tax reduction of EUR 1 billion in the Coalition Party would have been wasted and had no significant impact on employment. No economist there supported this line of the coalition. When the convention here has all the time leaned on asking economists, we did ask economists when the government programme was being carried out. It would also be quite unbelievable if transport companies were to: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u235	Madam President! Representative Saramo there inquired about the convention tax line and wondered after it. I'm wondering about the government's tax line right now. Minister Lintilä said earlier that the Finnish Taxpayer’s Confederation would have changed its view that the taxation of labour is likely to tighten up next year. However, this is not the case. Minister Lintilä doesn't seem right. The warning by taxpayers about the tightening of taxes on labour was therefore about the fact that social insurance contributions have been forecast to change next year. And now I quote directly from the Taxpayers’ Bulletin on 3.6.: ‘The threat of rising social insurance contributions will increase the tax burden on income, starting in the year by up to EUR 1 billion. The reduction of EUR 200 million that the government has now set aside will pale alongside these blackmails in sight. In addition, the reduction will only be limited to those on low and medium incomes.” I would like to ask Prime Minister Rinte whether you have taken any account of this tightening-up on the taxation of employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u236	In the debat, this minute is a tight time, but let's try to learn to stay within that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u237	I think that's where Mr. Juha Mäenpää left off. He asked if you could try to understand his anti-immigrationism. Of course, human feelings should not be overlooked, but I would have asked him if you could try to understand the entrepreneur, who has a great business idea and who has a great export or who has customers, no matter how many, but there are no employees who would do the work, so in a way, the obstacle to the development of the company is that there are no working hands. Yes, I would say that this constant involvement of work-related immigration — whether deliberate or unintentional — in general with immigration is something that should be taken into account. It is a plug on the development of our provinces that we do not have employees. One solution for this is labour immigration, unquestionably.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u238	Madam President! There has been talk here of cutting the household allowance, and it does have an effect that reduces economic activity. Perhaps it would have been better if different categories, different categories of deductions, were created instead of cutting. For example, shopping has not been included in the deduction, but cleaning is, for example. In particular, the conditions for promoting the use of cleaning and trade assistance could be cost-effective for central government finances because of the elderly’s home survival. Well, the truth is, it's hard for a normal person to respond to a pay-as-you-go. Cleaning and small renovations can move into the black economy. That is why, at the time, the household allowance was set up to combat the black economy, and that is why this is particularly a difficult way of doing what you are doing. I wish you'd reconsider. Family leave to the extent that it is very important for Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u239	I will now list these to whom I will give the floor and then we will go to the answers: Tornia, Könttä, Multala, Hassi, Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u240	Madam President! The Government Programme is a shared vision of the future and the way forward after long negotiations between the five parties. I personally understand that there are things there where compromises have been made and a common vision has been sought. There the different views of the five parties have been brought together. I have listened to the speeches made in this Chamber, for example, by the representatives of the Coalition Party, the actual speeches, and when I listened to Mr Kopra's speech, that is, the speech made by the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, he did not see any good in the Government Programme. He put it completely to the ground and said that the things that are there are tinkering. I personally cannot accept that they are tinkering. For example, when there is a Minister for Transport here, I say that major transport projects are big projects, they are projects that are far into the future and they must be taken forward. They're really big things. Instead, I would like to thank Mr Sato for seeing many good things in the government programme. I personally hope that we in this Chamber will also be able to discuss the good things that are far into the future. There's a lot of them in that government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u241	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Satonen for his speech. I hope that there will be an intellectual debate in this Chamber that identifies not only the good things, but also the challenges facing the government programme. It is quite dishonest to say that there is no good in this paper or that there are no means of employing it. You're damn right it's there. They are investigating the recruitment of the first new employee for sole entrepreneurs. Imagine, if this is successful, it means thousands, even tens of thousands of jobs. Or to invest in the employment of those capable of part-time work, to guarantee meaningful activities for young people and to give the Ay movement, for once, the power to show whether you can create jobs — if you do not, as stated in the Government Programme, then the government will take action. These bets are available, and it is clear that there will certainly not be enough there, and it is also recognised here on behalf of the government line. But the government
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u242	Mr President! Here Mr Pierainen previously asked representatives of the opposition to tell us what jobs have been created. Ulla Hannula and Liisa Larja have published such a blog on 1 August 2018 in which they explicitly highlight research based on what kind of employment has been created. The majority of employment growth is full-time work. According to their analysis, the number of new full - time workers was close to 80,000 by August. In connection with the autumn forecast, PTT also notes that employment growth is genuine. Even before the active model, growth has mainly come from continuous full-time employment relationships since 2017. Statistics show that the number of hours worked has increased almost as fast as the number of employed persons. It is also a good thing if the number of part-time employed persons has increased, because it is easier to work full-time even if you start working part-time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u243	Mr President! I should also like to add to the debate on household reductions by quoting the point where the carbon footprint of housing in the Government Programme is reduced: ‘The integration of energyrenovation costs into the household economyreduction circle, the possibility of a reduction for
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u244	Madam President! This household allowance is quite interesting. This is where Mr Hassi said earlier that the highest incomes are those who use them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u247	Now I shall now give the Ministers the answers. First Prime Minister Rinne, three minutes, then Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u248	Mr President! Mr Vestman asked me a question that I am trying to answer. I just got an answer from that expert. In other words, these social insurance contributions: they will increase in terms of pension and health insurance contributions now. It relates to these latest changes in the Kiky agreement on payments transferred from the employer to employees. But the previous government has already interpreted with its own compensation these kiky-payments as compensated, especially in 2017 — income taxes were reduced a lot. This is the correct interpretation of this. So, at the moment, the measures taken by this government do not know if they will. It will only be possible to find out when the unemployment insurance fund presents its own assessment of this. Then to this deduction, to the household allowance. This change, which, as I recall, will drop 150 euros from the ceiling down and then this compensation rate will drop to 40 instead of 50 in renovations, does not, according to experts, mean that the use of this will be reduced, because it will still be 40% less of the costs that this will entail, and this will be precisely the two highest income deciles that will use these services. The fact is that its average use is little above EUR 1000 per event, and that in practice means that only those with the highest income will suffer from this loss.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u249	Secretary Ohio, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u250	Mr President! Mr Mäenpää — and I hope that the group colleagues can send him a message, and I will be happy to continue to discuss this matter: I know what inequality is, I know what poverty is in this society. I've done my thesis on how people in bread queues see their futures or experience their well-being and disadvantages. These things should not be contrasted. People should not be pitted against each other. The title of this Government Programme is: Inclusive and knowledgeable Finland. And that's what it's all about. Every human being is involved and every human being feels involved in this society. There will also be no division between groups of people, which unfortunately exists in some places at the moment. That is why this government is working very hard to prevent its exclusion, which has been identified on several occasions in the reports of the Ministry of the Interior as the greatest threat to the internal security of Finnish society. Exclusion is the greatest threat to internal security. This is what the government is working towards, among other things, by raising the level of basic security that has not been raised in a long time, by lowering the price of living, by reforming social security, and that is what I call everything. This is where parliamentary work is beginning. It will last for two governments, and it will certainly work together to reduce poverty in this society. In addition, an internal security report is coming, which goes beyond the boundaries of the administration. This will happen by the end of 21 C.E. I'm happy to hear some thoughts about this, too. And the increase in the number of police officers has been raised many times here. We have so many ways of tackling inequality in this society, because everyone can trust this society, trust the authorities, trust the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u251	Secretary Kulmuni, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u252	Madam President! At the end of Mr Viitanen's speech, the creative sectors were raised, and he is quite right about the importance of the prospect of growth in order to diversify our export structure and the whole of our business. As was mentioned earlier in this debate, the share of creative industries in Finland in our GDP is relatively small compared to other Nordic countries or European competitors, so it is quite clear that we want to create growth in this sector, and it is also strongly recorded in the Government Programme not only in terms of culture but also in terms of the potential of business and exports. What is important, for example, is precisely this incentive for audiovisual media, which came into force during the last parliamentary term and which is now being followed up, and it is also being expanded to create other opportunities for the creative sector. So I am confident that the promotion of creative industries will move forward. Secondly, I would like to comment on the fact that Mr Kärnä raised the issue of entrepreneurship and that the promotion of exports was also mentioned here: Indeed, a large part of the increase in the employment objectives of this government is linked to the fact that entrepreneurship is doing well in this country and it is worth trying. The tax burden on entrepreneurs is not tightening, the tax burden on businesses is not tightening, which is of course absolutely central to the fact that this is an attractive investment environment. There are many entries in the Government Programme on how to try to improve the position of self-employed, both in terms of social security and through support services, and to make an entrepreneurship strategy, a domestic ownership programme and also an export and international growth programme for the long 2030s, which aim to diversify our export sector. Furthermore, it must of course be borne in mind that there have been some bottlenecks in our corporate finance markets that must be made easier. Mrs Huttunen quite rightly raised the problem of encounters, which is largely related to the fact that there is a labour force everywhere in this country, and this of course also relates to immigration in the area of work-related immigration. Many of our seasonal sectors, such as agriculture, would not be able to rotate at all to such an extent if they were not able to get enough labour on a seasonal basis. For example, support related to the recruitment of the first external employee has also been included in the Government Programme. Just as Prime Minister Rinne has already said about this suspicion that the rather moderate change in the household allowance, EUR 150, would have an impact on the increase in the black economy, it is certainly not considered likely, since, however, most of the users of the household allowance use EUR 1043 and very few have been able to fully use the EUR 2400.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u253	All right, after this debate, we're going to the list of speakers. There are 56 pre-reserved speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u254	Madam President! I have to say to my esteemed colleague, Mr Juvonen, that, unfortunately, at the moment, there is no such freedom of choice in family leave. That is why we need a reform of family leave that promotes equality, in which the welfare of families, the interests of the child and so on must be at the centre,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u257	Mr President! In many respects, the Government Programme we have before us is a forward-looking programme that takes Finland in a more socially sustainable direction. Securing the Nordic welfare model is one of the key themes in this nearly 200-page programme. The cornerstones of the Nordic welfare model are equality and equality of people, tax-funded welfare and education services, great social mobility and active civil society, our responsibility for each other and for the common future. People in Finland must also know in the future that I will be taken care of even if I am unable to do so myself. This is what we have wanted to do for decades; it is what we want to do for the future. We have heard quite comprehensively in this Chamber about the measures that the Rinte Government has committed itself to in its Government Programme. There have also been very critical, perhaps even fearful, speeches about the direction in which Finland is going. I believe that Finland is moving in a more humane direction, towards reforms and strongly towards the future. However, I am not saying that this road will be easy, and none of us in this Chamber will be able to predict what the future will bring. I would like to raise issues which have so far been overlooked in the debate but which touch very much, very many, which affect the many people who are invisible to us, but even if they do not appear, they still exist. We must ensure that these invisible crowds do not grow in the future. Mr President! I particularly welcome the records and measures contained in this Government Programme to ensure a better future for the most vulnerable people. This government programme is especially child-friendly and family-friendly. In decision-making, the Government commits itself to assessing the impact of children and promoting the inclusion of children and young people. The threshold for access to mental health services for children and young people will be lowered and the substance abuse services for minors will be secured. At present we have areas where these services are inadequate and completely inadequate. I thank this government programme for finally hearing concern about the number of clients of social workers in child protection. According to a study by THL in 2017, there were more than 55,000 children and young people in Finland in open-ended care. Located outside their own home, there were 18,000, of which 10,000 children were taken into care. Think of it, 10,000, almost as many children as there are residents in my hometown. These children and their families need child welfare workers who have plenty of time and time to cope with important and challenging work. Child welfare has long been under-resourced to the needs of the crisis and our country. Now the government promises to address this issue as well. In order to safeguard the rights and well-being of the most vulnerable children, minimum human resources are gradually being defined for the protection of children. The aftercare of child welfare will also be developed and the availability of shelter services will be increased. This, if I think so, is a responsible policy. Mr President! We also have a government that is willing to work with our serious folklore by developing substance abuse and mental health services. The cost of drugs alone to our society is billions a year, not to mention human suffering. That's a lot of work. The Government’s goal is to reduce addictions and update the substance abuse strategy. The effectiveness of drug treatment will be improved and the disadvantages of use reduced. The prevention of gambling harm has also been taken into account. The mental health strategy will also be developed and the legislation on mental health and substance abuse will be reformed. It is particularly important to ensure adequate services for substance abuse mothers and families. As I said earlier, this government programme is a child-friendly and family-friendly programme. As a long-standing social worker and with the most vulnerable people who have done my life's work, I can be proud to say that we have a government that also emphasises the importance of the social sector alongside health care. We cannot forget the invisible people, those who need support and help for very different reasons: children, young people, mental health workers, homeless people, people with disabilities, addicts, elderly people and so on. For them, this government program gives them faith in better things. There is a lot about society about how it treats its weakest. Each of us in this Chamber should remember that sometimes the need for help can also be you or me. To quote my esteemed Maarit Feldt-Ranta to this end, I say, as he said about his party: ‘This is a programme of hope for people for a better tomorrow’.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u259	Madam President! I want cleanliness, I want to eat, I want to be fed without hurry. I want to feel human touch. I want to understand and be understood. I want time for me. I don't want to be in diapers and I don't want to be in a pee-pee bed. I don't want to be alone in my own room because they won't be able to lift me up all day. — Here are a few wishes I have heard as a nurse from the elderly living in 24-hour care, and I believe that no one in this Chamber can belittled or considered unreasonable. It seems good to note that, even in this opposition, the coalition is more concerned about the nurse’s appointment than when it was in the government. Well, better late than not at all. The carer size of 0.7 recorded in the Government Programme is more than just a decimal place. This is an enabling factor in responding to the earnest wishes of many elderly people to be treated humanely. Elderly people need enough skilled, trained nurses to care for them. Elderly people are entitled to good, safe and high-quality care in 24-hour care housing for older people. Madam President! I am very pleased that there is a strong desire in the Government Programme to raise the issue of equality. Gender issues are reflected in the Government Programme across the board. I very much welcome the fact that the pay gap between men and women is being recognised and that measures are coming to reduce it. During this term of government, concrete measures must be taken to ensure that the salaries of trained medical staff are finally raised and dug out of the deep pay gap. It is not enough simply to register a nurse’s measure in the law, but to get both working conditions and remuneration to the right level. In order to ensure a skilled and professional workforce in the future also in the services of older people, the attractiveness of the social services sector must be improved. It's not just a calling anymore, it's a payday thing to get along with. I believe that we can all agree that we want to provide the best care and care for the elderly with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u260	Madam President! The Government Programme of the Ringe Government has given citizens faith in society, hope and confidence in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not precisely belief in the future that is an important resource that has taken Finland and will continue to take Finland forward? Unfortunately, the last term of government did not bring much hope and faith. On the contrary, faith in the future has really been tested by people. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rinte government is now going to build a better Finland. The Government will increase public confidence in the future by investing in knowledge, education and the future. The Government will also take care of Finnish competence in the future by extending compulsory education to 18 years, increasing the permanent funding of higher education institutions and strengthening vocational education and training. The Government will correct the correction debt accumulated in our transport network by investing in, among other things, basic infrastructure management and investing in the railways. The government also takes care of those who most need help in their lives. The government will reduce the poverty of pensioners and families with children, the government will set out a law-binding care measure, tighten the care guarantee in primary health care, initiate the preparation of social security reform, implement public sector-led social welfare reform and dismantle the unfair and unsuccessful active model. And most importantly, this government will also ensure that the municipalities have sufficient resources to develop vitality and organise services by deciding on temporary central government cuts next year and by securing sufficient resources for any additional tasks for municipalities. When criticising the climate targets of the Government Programme and the unrealistic employment targets, it is also worth noting that the Government's efforts to mitigate climate change and achieve sustainable development objectives will create a prime opportunity for Finland and our energy technology companies to act as a global leader on the basis of their expertise and thus create more jobs in Finland. I personally think it is very important that the Rinte Government is ready to lead Finland in agreement. Together with the opposition, the social partners and various organisations. Together, tillsammans, as the Suomi 100 slogan belonged to. Madam President! Finally, a comment on the economic criticism of the opposition here in the Chamber. As Prime Minister Rinne and several other representatives have said here, particularly yesterday, the Nordic welfare state is managing the economy for people, not the other way around. I will be very happy to vote for Finland tomorrow, a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. I am very happy to vote in favour of the government programme before us. Now that there seems to be a little time here, I'll take advantage of it. In fact, Mrs Juvonen has, in her speeches today, been very understanding in calling for a definition of the nursing staff of the Government Programme. Nursing staff are the social and health care staff trained in this Government Programme, and it is really important that this is enshrined in the law. Then the answer to why nurses will hopefully not march into the market next spring. The Government Programme also states on page 132 that wage equality will be promoted by continuing the equal pay programme, which must now be more ambitious and effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u261	Mr President! I will start with the positive aspects of the Government Programme, as there are many of them in the Programme. I am pleased that the programme is investing in education and research. I think it is very important that the new government takes into account the resources of the Defence Forces and internal security. Among other things, the number of police officers will be increased. It will be easier for people to get to a doctor and treatment. It is also easy to support from the opposition. For my province, it is very important for Satakunta that the military fleet purchases are carried out as planned. The project brings a lot of work to Rauma Shipyard and the entire subcontracting network. New funding will also be directed towards infrastructure development. For that, too, I thank the government. Mr President! Before I go through the weak points in the government programme, I would like to stress that I hope that the Rinte Government will succeed in strengthening our public finances and employment. Of course, it is our shared hope that Finland will succeed. I also hope for wisdom, courage for the new ministers to exercise the power that has now been given you. You're a lot of security. We will closely monitor the implementation of the Government's objectives through a constructive but courageous opposition policy. Mr President! However, the economic and employment programme of Prime Minister Rinte's Government raises questions and criticisms to me quite rightly. It is about how all this good stuff is going to be financed and, above all, about who pays for it all. Firstly, the government is raising environmental and harmful taxes by more than EUR 700 million, inter alia, by increasing taxes on fuel and energy and by abolishing the interest rate reduction on mortgage loans to cover expenditure on the budget. I would accept all these increases if, at the same time, you in the government were to reduce the tax burden on ordinary people and pensioners in line with how you are now raising these taxes. — EUR 700 million in blackmail is more than EUR 200 million in relief, Mr President. Secondly, the entire economic line of the Rinte government's programme is built on sand. You are aiming for a budgetary balance in 2023, which is essentially based on the employment rate of 75% and 60,000 new employees. These are excellent objectives, but the concrete means are shining by their absence. How can you build the central economic policy objectives of the Government Programme on such aspirations? Instead of courageously deciding on employment measures already in the Government Programme, you are moving the preparation of employment measures to a triangular level. I would like to believe that there will be results, but unfortunately I doubt that. All the easy ways to achieve employment have already been done in previous governments. It is now necessary for the government to have the courage and ability to take decisions in order to achieve that important objective in terms of employment. We have been elected here, ladies and gentlemen, because the citizens have voted for us. They have trusted us that we parliamentarians will decide things, take responsibility and put ourselves on the line. People's representatives, not Hakaniemi or the South Bank. It is essential that the government retains the power and responsibility to promote employment. Thirdly, the government declares that it will invest a great deal in the future, to which EUR 3 billion will be directed during the Government's term of office by selling state property. The sale of assets is justified if the funds are directed towards strengthening future growth and employment. There's no point in selling property for the budget. Rather, the list of future investments is a collection of election promises from the government parties for which no other funding has been found in the budget. Among these expenditures, called future investments, there are always good things for everyone from reindeer husbandry to the repair of embassy buildings, the broadband programme and free-of-charge prevention. The future investment of the Government of slopes means that expenditure will now be increased, but the bill will only be paid in the future. Produced state property is put into meat to pay for the election vows of the parties. Mr President! The country can also be served by the opposition. We will come from the assembly to make a constructive opposition policy and offer you alternatives. We are particularly closely monitoring the progress made by the government towards the employment objective. I would like to wish the government every success in constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u262	Madam President! There has been a lot of discussion here about these good things. They have been raised and the government has been praised in that way, so I will no longer make a list of them, but some of the things that have become important to me and I have noticed are at least improving security, increasing education and investing in early childhood education. These have the goals that will be needed in the future, and we must do them in such a way that our children will succeed and take this country forward. On the other hand, we must also take care of the disadvantaged and improve their position. I welcome the removal of the active model and its daily allowance cutter from the unemployed. Its removal is good and appropriate because it has not achieved the objectives set for it. I also think it is a good thing that this limit of 4000 person-years is removed from the third sector's pay subsidy, as the third sector has a great deal of potential to employ and get people to work in the right way to improve their own working capacity. Especially for the long-term unemployed, they need a soft landing on the job, so that in a way their pace of work is restored, their working condition is restored and marginalisation is reduced, as they make new friends from the labour market, and in a way they may even find a new goal: to study for themselves a new profession. I think it is a very good thing that this is abandoned. The previous government recalled that when I looked at those budget decisions for 2019, more than EUR 160 million of employment appropriations were left unused because of this cutter. If you think of the active model as the opposite, you save money but punish the unemployed and not give them the job opportunity, so I think that dismantling this is a very good thing. Mr President! I think this government is for the people. This government helps ordinary people. Ordinary people get their kids in day care. Ordinary people can train their children into the profession. Good care is guaranteed for the normal elderly. For me, all people are ordinary people, and this is everyone's chance now, for all people. All in all, when you look at and read this government program, this is a very good government programme in the sense that now we have the opportunity to divide and we use it in the right way and in the right places and in the right future. I think this is a good and positive government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u263	Madam President! Nine good and ten beautiful. I think that this expression is an excellent illustration of this programme of the Rinte Government which we are discussing. The programme contains a number of proposals to be supported. At the same time, it also raises a number of questions about the reality of its implementation. A large part of the permanent expenditure is being financed by one-off revenue. At the mouth of the centralists we have heard on several occasions how the economy and employment were put in order during the last term of government. This was the case, but even the difficult measures taken in many places during the last period were not aimed at bringing Finland back to the point from which we started. The aim was to put the Finnish economy in order so that we could afford to invest in education and skills, services for the elderly and also in income transfers not only now, but also in four and even ten years' time, even when our children are adults. Mr President! Politics should be made as long-term as possible. Reforms should last parliamentaryly over the term of government. A short-term and tempting policy is no one’s advantage. The long-term perspective is particularly emphasised in the services of children and young people. The education system must endure time, and it must not be just under the guise of election promises that sudden changes of course should be carried out. It is good to note, therefore, that efforts are being made to support the implementation of the reforms carried out in the last period and none of these, including the reform of the early childhood education law, which the SDP is opposed to, are being withdrawn. In addition, the Government Programme commits itself to the vision of higher education launched last season, which aims to achieve a 4% share of R & D expenditure in GDP and a 50% share of the age group of higher education graduates. Unfortunately, the revenue side of the government programme does not support this objective as strongly as it would have liked. The Coalition Party would have invested EUR 300 million in research and product development and capitalised universities with the proceeds of the sale of state assets. This would ensure the quality of higher education and research and strengthen the autonomy of universities in a long-term way. The good thing about this side is that we're trying to defuse the search grid. However, I hope that it is not the case that the contributions made to higher education now go entirely to fund these additional places. Many other good things are also being done by the new government. Investments in early years are among the most effective ways of tackling school drop-out and prevention of exclusion. It is great that the government is launching an equal opportunities programme for both early childhood education and basic education. On my initiative last year, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of Education, started funding for equal opportunities in early childhood education, as it has achieved good results on the part of comprehensive school. Increasing the participation rate of early childhood education is also a very good goal, and hopefully the completion of a two-year pre-school would progress from finding out how to implement it. Mr President! The Government of Rinne has made the extension of compulsory school age one of its top priorities and the biggest permanent expenditure increase on the education side. Secondary education is now a prerequisite for employment, and therefore it is a very good goal for everyone to have at least secondary education. Yesterday, Mr Gustafsson, an experienced leader in education policy, rightly said in this Chamber that raising the age of compulsory education alone will not help to achieve this objective, but that all those good things are needed to strengthen the quality of early childhood education and basic education and to improve the support for learning. I therefore wonder why it has been decided to finance all these measures needed to achieve a good objective by means of one-off revenue. Does this mean that we are only trying to strengthen equality and basic skills in education for three years? I'm sure you understand that yourself, good government, this isn't working. There is a need for a long-term strengthening of basic skills, not just a three-year-old one. The record of extending compulsory education is still very vague in the Government Programme, so I believe that we will return to this matter once the preparatory work in the Ministry has progressed. At this stage, it is unclear, for example, whether the extension is genuinely aimed at achieving a degree or not. I would also like to see a parliamentary approach to education policy. Mr President! There are a lot of worthwhile goals to be found in the Government Programme, and I would like to highlight the investments in sports and sports. The report on sport policy last season was historic and the report on it in the Committee on Education and Culture was unanimous, and this is now reflected nicely in the Government Programme's records. It's great to see how this concrete thing is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u264	Madam President! More than ever now is needed to accept, support and identify diversity. There are thousands of people in the world and in Finland who live with us in this same world, but who cannot experience it in the same way as their own. Not all of us have the opportunity to learn to speak, for example, as we do here today — ever. Not all of us have the opportunity to learn the alphabet, for example, if there is no helpable adult available. Not all of us have the opportunity to find a friend or learn how to ride a bicycle. Some of us have all met: a child who is wrinkling maple leaves with his hand, a mother who fears that her child will be deprived of the support she needs, a spouse who is able to support one another, a person who has been left alone, a young person who has been forgotten and could not find his way back to the others. Most of us know them. This government program is positive for families with children and children. It wants to invest in the future, as it should be. At the same time, it wants to invest in better learning opportunities and education for children and young people, including those who need special support. The group sizes of early childhood education will be reduced, subjective day care rights will be restored and the comprehensive school equality programme will prevent inequality. Reforming family leave will increase equality between parents. The importance of preventive rehabilitation in people's well-being has been understood, and it is now also a matter of investing in it and strengthening basic health care. They want to improve the quality of care for the elderly. The right of people with disabilities to belong to society on a more equal footing will be improved, and the spectrum of autism, for example, is finally mentioned in the Government Programme. You don't forget family carers. Madam President! Which of these would be bad for increasing people’s well-being and equality? In Finland, people have marched to combat climate change. Children and young people have brought themselves and their anxieties to us each week, hoping that we will secure a healthy and secure future for them. Preventing inequality, investing in education, strengthening equality and combating climate change are the most important issues for the security of our country and have now been addressed. Improving equality between minority groups and persons at risk of exclusion increases equality. Taking care of people's education and well-being is also a direct investment in combating climate change. They go hand in hand, and we must give people fins and means to carry out the work that everyone can and can participate in. Two months ago, when I was elected to Parliament for the first time and told my child at home, he replied: “Mother really, wonderful,you will remember us well afterwards. “ Today I will tell him and all the children of Finland that yes, we will take good care of you. And we will speak with the voice of those who do not have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u265	Mr President! The communication debate on the Government Programme is always a major debate, opens this entire government term big up here in Parliament, and I have been following today's debates quite closely. There have also been a lot of constructive and good speeches here, but at the same time I agree a little with Mrs Kanerva's question as to whether, in the future, it would perhaps be sensible for Parliament's working methods to have this debate somewhat thematic or phenomenon-based — if you dare to say so at this point. But then a few substantive comments: First of all, no government programme can ever be perfect. We will always find details, whether in the opposition or in the government party, which are the subject of criticism, but at the same time I would like to remind you that all parliamentary parties always make decisions when they are in government, decisions that they cannot all please. It's realism. I myself think about this government programme that even if I might have wanted to do something or take something away from it, the whole thing always matters, and I think this is a very good whole. In my opinion, social justice, regional equality and entrepreneurship are all good here. All in all, they are on the table in a good way. And it is well known when we look at the result of the election that the centre could not have been involved in this government unless we had also achieved the objectives that we need and these threshold issues. All in all, the big picture obviously has economic and employment development, with very ambitious targets: the employment rate of 75% and 60,000 new jobs. They are ambitious, that must be said, and we, the government, will have a lot of work to do to find different things, new measures to then achieve these objectives. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you that four years ago, when the Sipilä government started, not many people believed in its objectives of a 72% employment rate and 100,000 new jobs — at the end of the day there were 140,000 new jobs. Among other things, I think the new Prime Minister, Mr Rinnek, was rather skeptical about our objectives at the time, but they were achieved. Well, then, on this question, what are we going to do to make this employment better and genuinely people for work? We all know that the higher the employment rate, the more difficult it is, in a way, to get the hard core of people into work, and I personally think it is very important that we also be able to reform the content of our employment services, make them better, more intersectoral, to involve more of the social media there and to give up much of the kind of digital online employment that was, in a certain way, a little fashionable there in the early 2000s. You need a face to help when you're looking for a job. As far as the reduction in household income is concerned, I would like to point out my point of view in this debate. I think Mr Juvonen was right to reflect on the fact that it certainly needs to be developed. I do not think that this reduction is dramatic, but I share the idea that, in its present form, the household allowance is not sufficiently capable of securing the services of those people with lower incomes and older people who need to receive those services — yes, the household allowance is particularly important for well-paid couples. If we could find those forms of how to get older people to benefit more from the household allowance, that would be important. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say to you about this social reform, which I was also doing in the Säätytalo group, that I think it is important that we carry out the social reform in a controlled and phased manner, and that in future there can no longer be an alternative to a voluntary model by the municipalities. It simply won't work. We need wider, stronger shoulders and will be able to achieve this long-term goal at last. I personally believe that primary health care is the most important and needs to be improved. Child welfare, mental health services and substance abuse work are special and should be much better achieved in basic services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u266	Mr President! The government has not learned about sexual and violent crimes committed by asylum seekers in the media. Instead of extending the use of detention, the government envisages the technical supervision of asylum seekers who have received a negative decision. However, there is no obstacle to a single rape or any other act of violence with a surveillance collar or any other tracking device in the leg. I would like to hear the extent to which technical control is being applied for. The idea of being illegal in the country also loses its meaning in other ways. The Government aims to promote the obtaining of a residence permit for people who have received a negative asylum decision on the basis of work. The fact that the government is creating new channels to bypass a negative decision on asylum does not remove the fact that these people have arrived in the country with fraud and injustice. They should not be rewarded for this, but a negative decision should always lead to a return. Mr President! What is good in the government programme is an increase in the number of police officers by 300 person years by 2022. This objective will be supported by an increase in the number of police training. I sat as Chairman of the Police Council last season and I know exactly that this is not done by clicking on fingers. The police already have full employment. In addition, within ten years, 18% of the current police force will retire. All new police officers come through studies, and the number will only increase if, in addition to the replacements of retired police officers, the number of students is raised. The number of students has been increased in previous years. However, in some years it has been difficult to find students who meet the requirements for admission. In addition, not everyone who started their studies will graduate on time or at all. In the Government Programme it is noted that efforts are being made to promote the recruitment of people from different ethnic backgrounds to police training and to pay attention to the language skills of the police. These two objectives immediately seem contradictory. However, everyone is required to have the same command of the civil servant Swedish. One of the biggest challenges for applicants is Swedish language competence. This situation is further compounded by the government's registration of the return of the forced Swedish to the matriculation exams. I do not hope to see any shortcuts for those of ethnic origin. The criteria must always be the same for all applicants. The fact is, however, that more police officers are needed to be seen and to be heard in numbs and squares. In addition, public confidence in the police must also be strengthened by a drastic rise in the criminal investigation rate. There is nothing more to be gained from trust in authority than the fact that crimes are not solved. Mr President! In the Government Programme, the government promises to consider the issue of indoor air disease — good. At present, indoor air disease is in a position where they have clear symptoms of illness but not a disease recognised by society. This means that they will be deprived of the benefits that are due to the sick. This is strongly linked to the work I did last season to change the insurance doctor system. Insurance companies and the doctors they use have the opportunity to define the limits of the disease. The government has recognised some of the problem in its programme, which states that people who are not actually able to work are currently covered by unemployment benefits. The Parliament decided unanimously last season that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system and submit a proposal to Parliament to amend the legislation during the spring session of 2020. In this regard, the handprint of Mr Arja Juvonen is strongly visible. It is up to the government to ensure that a proposal from the Ministry is prepared to lead to a real change and to correct the situation of people who have fallen between the system. The most important thing is that the person granting the benefits can only reverse the medical assessment of the treating physician on the basis of medical research.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u267	Madam President! From the first reading, this government program seemed very interesting. Of course, it has a thickness of such 200 pages, so that of course there was a lot of interest in it. It has good objectives, indeed good objectives. Here in the hall, too, it was described as a barrel of wishes. In my opinion, there are quite a few such pretentious things here. And why does it feel like it? Well, that's why it feels like things don't have a price tag. It is not known what it costs, what it costs, and when there is no price tag, it seems that there is always realism. Is it realistic to do things like this to achieve, and how are all these funded? In the Government Programme, it was very often pointed out that matters were being clarified. We'll figure it out, we'll figure it out, we'll figure it out, we'll figure it out. But finding out for yourself does not guarantee that things will change for the better. When things are cleared up, you don't know what you're going to find out yet. We should take action before things change for the better. There's a pretty big part to the interpretation. Among other things, it was said that the possibilities were explored, the need for changes was clarified, the provisions were clarified, the means were explored, sustainability was examined, the implementation was examined in a comprehensive way. And how much do they cost? It seems that after four years, a lot of work has been done, quite a lot. I'm sure a lot of things are going to work out, or will they? I hope the whole of Finland has not been solved by then. I wouldn't want you to do that. Finland will be liquidated. The economy must also be considered, even though the color of the government is now green and red. I'm surprised at a lot of things on the show. Let us take a few examples. Education, for example. On page 164 it is mentioned that the compulsory education age will be increased to 18 years. This may not always be a good thing. Not everyone necessarily wants to be in school for long. Would it not be better to invest in those who more need that help and support and encouragement? However, each of us is different, so are students and schoolchildren. No one knows how much it costs for this either. Doesn't seem to know. Now the government's solution seems to be a bit like a one-button solution. I could compare with one such thing in India, for example. After all, India once wanted to eradicate the black economy. Then we figured out how to do it. The solution was to remove a certain sized banknote. That was the solution. In my opinion, the solution was not a comprehensive one. It doesn't remove the gray economy. Somehow I feel like there's a little bit of the same kind of gesture here. It can't be like this. And this adding Swedish doesn't seem nice to everyone. Now there has been such a thing as the compulsory return of Swedish to the matriculation examination. I don't really like it. One thing is climate change. Why does Finland seem to be suppressing its own interests? We need to be very specific and realistic about these issues. It cannot be that we alone in Finland take responsibility for all the things in the rest of the world. Our competitiveness may be at risk if we snoop far too much. Let us not drive our country into distress, but let us ensure that it is competitive. The representative of the Centre Party, Kurvinen, asked — and I think there was a speech from this representative, Arhinmäki — whether the Finns of Peru have read the Government Programme. Yes, we have. Believe me, we have. After all, there were letters on over 200 pages. And when we have read, we have found that something is missing. Well, what's missing? There's numbers missing, there's numbers missing. They don't say how much it costs, and that's what we noticed because we read it. A little outraged I read where it was stated, the Government Programme mentioned that Finland will develop a comprehensive strategy for Africa and ensure the coherence of Finland's Africa policy. Do we really need this Africa thing, and what does it cost the taxpayers, all of us? This was supposed to be about the Finnish Government programme. Of course, I would like to see more policy focused on Finland. What will the government do about harmful immigration? As one detail in the Government Programme, I would have needed a certain amount of strong investment in family care. Why did the government programme not finally say that the support for informal care would have become tax-free, would it not be time? Don't you think it's time for that? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u268	Mr Haavisto has asked for a reply. I admit it, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u269	Mr President! Mr Kanerva said earlier here that very little is said about foreign policy, and that is very understandable, given that, above all, we are talking about domestic affairs: economics, social policy and so on. But when Mr Reijonen mentioned why we need a strategy for Africa, it now closely linked this to this foreign policy debate. I believe that Mr Reijonen and others have seen that very many things in Europe are being influenced by what is happening in Africa. This is a refugee crisis, but there is also a large-scale fight against climate change, in which we in many ways also need the African continent to be involved. There we need to prevent the desertification of the Sahara and there we need to persuade a great many African countries to play their part in these issues of combating climate change. Furthermore, when we look at where Europe has a growth potential with our knowledge, know-how, digital knowledge or our environmental technology, it is already being exported to a great many continents, but Africa has a hugely growing market for all this knowledge at the moment. When the government talks about where there are new territorial claims and perhaps new know-how that is needed in Finland too, the continent of Africa is one of these, and it is not just important to Finland. Of course, it is a very important partner for the European Union as a whole, and all the events that have taken place in the Mediterranean area only underscore the importance of this cooperation. Very often, in the context of the refugee crisis and immigration, there is talk of tackling the initial causes that trigger people, whether they are in the Middle East or North Africa or in a country like Afghanistan, and at least I myself think that the prevention of conflicts and the prevention of climate change — the effect that the environment will not be ruined and people will be forced to leave — is all the prevention of conflicts that is needed more and more in the world today. It is therefore important for the government to think about these measures centrally and not just in terms of development cooperation, but in terms of political cooperation and what can be done between the African Union and the European Union. This is also very much the case in our presidency of the European Union. When the Foreign Ministers meet next week, there will be one subject for discussion, alongside other world crises, for example the current situation in Sudan, where there will be such uncertainty which, if the conflict deepens and escalates there, can create new problems for the neighbouring countries of Sudan first and then perhaps finally for us here on the north side of the Mediterranean. These are perhaps the reasons why Africa has been mentioned there. I hope Mr Reijos had an answer here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u270	Mr President! Here were some of the good questioners that were just being ignored on that podium. Firstly, the Vehviläinen estimated this future phase-out of the reform of social welfare and health care, including regional cooperation. It is good to say that the record of the Government Programme on this is very clear: the model exists, and the reform of this first stage concerns the social structure, which will be carried out in a very rapid manner by the government, however, with careful preparation. In this context, we have the opportunity to make progress at regional level with regard to our own regional specificities, and in this respect we also have access to this funding. But it is good to say, as has already been pointed out here, that the structural reform of social welfare and health care has been outlined and does not have the opportunity to start again in any area. But, of course, the specific regional features are taken into account, and there is this funding in that respect. Mr Ronkainen asked about the insurance system, and I would like to give you happy news. I don't know whether you noticed or didn't just bring it up otherwise, but on page 150 there's a confession given to you and this parliamentary work. This was also the subject of discussion during the negotiations on the Government Programme, and it is good to note that we now wanted to put in books and covers the fact that the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system are being corrected in accordance with the unanimous report by the committee. This is as far as Mr Ronkainen is concerned, especially since you were not even involved in the negotiations on the Government Programme. In this respect, I think that there is enough promise. As far as the part of those who are sick from the indoor air is concerned, this issue was also very strongly involved in the discussions, and in that respect the problem is the group of those who are sick from the indoor air who do not fall into these traditional diagnoses in a way that would also provide security both in terms of the care of the illness and in terms of income. In this regard, we have argued that the situation of those who are sick from the indoor air should be clarified in such a way that the incapacity to work and the incapacity to work do not remain without a livelihood, and this also requires a quite different approach to the treatment of diseases from the one before, and in this respect the position of these people is not only recognised, but also measures to safeguard their livelihood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u271	Madam President! Mr Ronkainen really raised these indoor problems and, as we all know, that is a huge problem. It has been a major problem in this country for a long time, and it has also been a problem that Parliament and previous governments have tried their best to resolve. After all, the work began at the time when the Audit Committee, under the leadership of its then chairman, Mr Tuija Brax, carried out this extensive study, and since then both the previous government and this government and the previous government have all wanted to continue this work, because it is quite intolerable that we have a huge number of buildings, above all public buildings with indoor air problems, and there, from schoolchildren, to kindergarten children, we have to spend long periods of time, both children and staff, as well as in health centres. The garrisons are also such places where there are many of these indoor air problems. This government will therefore continue to fight against indoor air problems. Minister Kiuru has just explained here what we can do about the sick and improve their position, but then my ministry has this aspect of housing. It is now going to focus both on research so that we can better prevent problems from arising, and also in the case of renovation, how it should be done in order to achieve real change. Equally, we are going to invest in the quality of construction and also in those issues of responsibility, because that is the big problem that when projects are chained up, that responsibility seems to disappear along the way, and that is what we want to get clear responsibilities for now. Then the powers of health inspectors and occupational safety and health authorities will also be increased so that they can be better placed to take corrective action, and there will also be clear qualifications for fitness check-ups so that when these fitness checks are carried out, they can be confident that they have actually been properly carried out. And since, unfortunately, a great deal is still happening to buy a house or apartment where these problems can be found later, we want to tackle this so that we can find out how legal protection can be guaranteed to buyers of these houses or dwellings if they then come to suffer from indoor air problems. Similarly, the possibilities for support that people with indoor air problems might get for repair will be examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u272	Let us go to the list of speakers, because we have so many speeches in advance. Let’s see if there is a need for a debut, of course it can happen later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u274	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to support the motion of censure tabled by Ville Tavio, the Finns of Peru. Minna Reijonen, MP of the Finns Party, yes, the support for informal care should be tax-free. It's time for that now. The employer should also be obliged to exempt the employee during informal care, for example during hospice care, from work. Right now, it's an opportunity. Mr Ronkainen, yes, as a result of your bill, the shortcomings in the insurance doctor system were raised in Parliament and acted as a guide. Thank you, and thank you, the government, for taking this matter forward. I would also like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for making a vigorous statement on this matter. However, this government programme will not achieve any potential for economic growth or productivity. The Bank of Finland’s forecast of economic slowdown yesterday stopped. The central bank, which lowered its growth forecast, anticipates an increase in GDP of 1.6% this year and 1.5 next year. In 2021 growth is slowing down to close to its potential rate of 1.3%. Finland’s slow-down economic development can wreck a large part of this government programme. The vagueness and conditionality of the programme and the involvement of the five parties will ensure that there are certainly many points that will still be twisted hands, and this can lead to strife and poor achievement. The employment target of 75% is high and should be pursued, but 60,000 jobs seem to run a long way. There are no means of achieving this. The ball for improving employment has been thrown on the three sides — you outsource job creation to labour market organisations. However, there will be clear cuts to the citizens: The fuel tax is most visible in the purse for those who drive cars and those who use high consumption vehicles. This does not particularly increase the burden on the private car driver, but it is expensive for professional drivers and the transport industry. It weakens the margins of transport companies and moves on to the prices paid by final customers. It clearly charges the cost of living in remote areas. Cutting the household allowance hits the ordinary person’s purse. There is a law on demand and supply: small entrepreneurs, such as those who provide household and cleaning services, are subject to price reductions. Is this what the feminist government wants? These small entrepreneurs are very often women. Cutting the household allowance will increase the grey economy, as domestic work and renovations will be commissioned as undeclared activities. On the other hand, the list of work entitled to the household allowance should be updated. I have just looked at it, and there are measures that should also be included in the household allowance. The abolition of the interest rebate on owner-occupied dwellings is deplorable to the household debtors, especially those with families, especially those with low and medium incomes, all of whose income is already living. The government should invest in security. It is good that the number of policemen is increased, but we also need more nurses. Wage policy plays an important role in these procurements. It is unreasonable that areas where people’s lives and integrity are safeguarded are so low-paid. The government has said that it is the most feminist government ever — make sure that the financial security of women-dominated sectors and of a small retired lonely woman is guaranteed. The government should not support poor immigration. Incentives should not be increased. The thresholds for sexual offences should be tightened, especially in the case of sexual offences against children, and good if this is progressing. Finally, there is the issue of social security, hospice, patient safety and care: access to the doctor — more medical training. Hospice care is in order — the law obliges. Patient safety — every malpractice is too much. Nurseship — just one sentence, just one month: be a government of your word and bring the nurseship into the old age law immediately. And only trained workers in the care sector should be counted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u275	Madam President! As we have seen here, the Government Programme is indeed a wide range of issues. It does not make the world ready, not even Finland, but it does change the direction we have been going in in recent years. This government programme is just and forward-looking and does not intend to change all the things that previous governments have done, but there are some significant corrections and changes in direction. Dismantling the active model is one of the corrections that eliminate inequalities that must be made. For many, the current active model, despite its genuine activity, is only a cutter for unemployment security and needs to be corrected. Fortunately, measures have already been taken to dismantle it and the change will be quickly implemented. The Government Programme's objective of improving employment requires other types of action. The Government Programme has strongly expressed its view that measures to increase employment are being prepared in a three-track approach. Where these things can be successfully, fairly and collectively taken forward. With this Government Programme we can also make a significant contribution to the everyday lives of families with children. I am particularly pleased that, at last, reconstituted families have also been taken into account in this programme. The Government wants to improve the position of shift parent families in housing support and other social security systems. In addition, the government wants to improve the livelihood of single parents and families with multiple children. The common concern of all of us is guaranteed to be a significant fall in the birth rate in Finland, and that too must be supported by a variety of means in common. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Care for the elderly has also been put at the heart of this programme. The most recent opinion on the mistreatment of the elderly has been expressed today by, among other things, the Advisory Board of Pensioners' Associations in Central Finland, which today received greetings and was concerned about the treatment of our elderly. Their concerns have been answered, too. It is important to have a staffing dimension in the law, but at the same time we must remember that the working conditions and workload of the medical staff must be able to be corrected. The availability of nurses must be managed with an attractive and motivating job description and sufficient pay. The common will of this government is to correct the level of minimum pensions, and during this term of government, pensioner poverty will be reduced. Even pensioners expressed the view that there is now finally hope for a better direction, and that is also the clear will of this government programme. We need hope for something better. The Government Programme records that improve the accessibility of Finland as a whole also provide better hope. Investments in rail transport, roads and road safety are very important for passenger transport, but above all they are important for our export industry. There has been a debate here today and very good speeches have been made, including by Mrs Kanerva and the representative. Whether this discussion of the Government Programme should perhaps be considered in some way more reasonable in the future. I must agree that it has been very interesting for such a new representative to monitor the progress of this meeting and of these days and speeches, and I really hope that some improvement can be made in the future. Similarly, Mr Satonen spoke earlier in the day about how this policy should be reformed so that this regime and opposition situation can be brought into line so that this debate in this Chamber will at least remain reasonable, and it is very easy to agree with that. As a whole, I can be very pleased and very happy to support its vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u276	Mr President! Much has been said over the last two days about what this government is doing to promote equality and human rights, but also employment and economic growth. To the satisfaction of the opposition, I can assure you that, first of all, these two issues are not separate from each other, but, at the same time, when we talk about equality, we are also talking about employment, because women also work in this country, including women with children at home. All these things have been important objectives when the government programme has been drawn up, and therefore they are really reflected in this programme. There has been much discussion in this Chamber about the birth rate. However, we cannot talk about the birth rate without talking about the role of young women, especially young women, in this society. We cannot be ignored in this debate, because this debate is primarily about our bodies, our lives and our plans for the future. Nor do we need to speculate or speculate, nor do we need to think that we young women in this Chamber alone will have to speak on behalf of thousands of people, because there have been countless surveys on this subject. What, then, are the biggest obstacles to family participation? Why is it that some young people are afraid to live up to their hopes for children? There are a lot of purely personal factors that we politicians are unable to deal with and which we should not try to address, but there is also a lot that we can do. One of the major reasons why young people do not have children is the uncertainty of their own future, the lack of income and the concern about who will care for the child when you are at work. And who will care for the child if the child falls ill? How soon can a child get to a doctor? Does maternity lead to discrimination on the labour market? How does the employer view Father’s family leave? — — — — This is what we know from the study that it is rather clammy. — What happens if you become completely unemployed, how do you cope? Some of the concerns are much more fundamental: How will parenting succeed if there are two mothers instead of one: will the child remain at the expense of bureaucracy? Is the child being bullied at school? Will the child have to listen when he and his parents are hurt at the top of society? These are the biggest questions young people are asking, and these are the issues that this government is really taking up. Pregnancy discrimination and gender pay gaps are properly addressed. Family leave will be reformed in order to promote equality and freedom of choice for families. Early education is focused on getting parents to work, but also on getting the support of every child for that growth and learning, so that, in due course, it will also be a good start to school. As Mr Rantanen rightly pointed out here, we are also making it easier for shift parents and rainbow families. Every child is guaranteed free education up to the doctoral level, including the second degree. On the social and health side, emergency care is guaranteed in at least seven days. At the same time, individual and timely services for children and their families belonging to gender minorities will be ensured. Translaw will be reformed in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u279	Madam President! As in all programs, there are winners and losers in the government programme. The Finnish Parliament should primarily promote the interests of Finns in everything, everything, and of course it should also be very strongly reflected in the Government Programme. Now the losers of the Government Programme are ordinary, low-income Finns. The programme is particularly affected by Finns who still work and pay for their own living, and especially by those who use the car for their business trips and heat their houses with wooden crates after the Caruna scheme. The Government Programme gives the impression that, as a climate act, the above - mentioned ones would apparently have to die away. The biggest winners of the Government Programme are non-working foreigners with large families whose unpaid current transfers increase. Their lives are made easier in many ways, and the money is dug out of the pockets of a Finnish worker. So the program reveals the world’s most perverted ideas of the workers. Similarly, hundreds of millions are being pumped into corruption under the name of development aid. The more Finnish money is shoveled into Africa, the worse it will be there. The aid organizations and their leaders are just getting rich. Madam President! Pauli Vahtera, an expert in financial management and accounting, has calculated that the Finnish average income family pays up to 74 per cent of its income tax. Professor Matti Viren thinks the tax rate is around 67%. In the Soviet Union, the real tax rate was in principle 100 %. Is that the level of ambition of this government? To top it all off, the government boasts that it is the cause of the underprivileged. Yet it plans to squat on the inhabitants of old houses that are warmed up with oil. Most of them are poor elderly people in remote areas, whose houses are of little value anymore. They have already been humiliated by a piece of shit law and their property tax has already been increased several times. Madam President! The main passion of the government seems to be to increase harmful immigration by any means necessary and to inflate the irresponsible level of the public sector. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u280	Madam President! The majority of Finnish children and families are well. Families’ own resources are sufficient and they receive the right services at the right time. It is easier to apply for aid, although the threshold is still high in some places. This situation has been facilitated by increased transparency. At the same time, there is an increased awareness that different challenges can come to anyone. We've also taken a step backwards. Although the position of families with children in Finland is good internationally, child poverty has been growing for a long time. Mental health problems in children and young people are also becoming more common. More than 130,000 children live in poor families with children in Finland. It is a disgrace to a prosperous Finland. The worlds of experience of the disadvantaged and the disadvantaged are horribly differentiated. In other families, you can shop for hundreds, even thousands of euros, by blinking at the same amount for months. This is the kind of everyday experience that sums up the polarization of society. Poverty is also reflected in the street view. The bread lines are even hundreds of meters long. More and more people come from different backgrounds. Many families with children have also had to rely on charity. Sometimes it seems that we are used to bread lines and inequality. Madam President! I am particularly proud that this government is investing in the position of children and families with children and in the fight against poverty. We reduce poverty in families with children by simultaneously developing benefits and services. Enough basic security is at the heart of everything. That is why we are investing in raising basic security and in the livelihood of single parents and families with multiple children. We also want to promote preventive and welfare services for families with children. Madam President! There have been problems with access to mental health services in particular. For this reason, we are also lowering the threshold for mental health services for children and young people, improving timeliness and accessibility as part of basic services. We will also continue with the already proven models, such as the programme to change child and family services. We are spreading the family centre operating model and we are developing clinics further. We also need measures to safeguard the rights and well-being of the most vulnerable children. We will gradually adjust the tightening minimum human dimension to child protection with a dimension of 30 customers per professional. The goal is that by 2022 the size will be 35. Child welfare alone cannot meet the needs of children and young people and families who need much support. It is therefore very important that, at the same time, we also develop child welfare aftercare. We must give young people sufficient support on the way to adulthood. Madam President! This government also invests in education. I cannot stress enough the importance of restoring the honour of education to families with children. Finnish high-quality comprehensive school is an important family support and reduces the inequality of children. The future government will be able to address the situation of children and families with children more and more from a point of view. Institutions that affect children's lives need to be able to cooperate more effectively in order to make a real impact on what is now being done. For this we also need the support of the whole Parliament. The future of Finland rests in children. This is why the Government commits itself to assessing the impact of decisions on children, promoting child budgeting and increasing the participation of children and young people. Mr President! Child poverty must be reduced because it is perhaps one of the most damaging phenomena in our society. It produces outsiders and lack of participation, leaving the children with long shadows in their lives. Every child must have the right to adequate income and care, says our Constitution. The well-being of families with children and the loss of poverty depend on social decisions, on the ones we are here to make. We have a genuine opportunity, within the framework of this Government Programme, to make Finland more child-friendly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u281	Mr President! As has already been said several times on the part of the Coalition Party, there is a lot of good in the government programme of the left-wing government of Antti Rinte. After a long period of belt tension in Finland, many feel that the promises of financial realities free of the Government Programme will be good. But I will take the example of the sports world. If the coach promises all the players on the team a seat in the starting field, it'll be fun for a while. But when the reality of the impossible promise strikes the face, many will be disappointed. The hopeful government programme is largely based on an increase in the employment rate of 75%, much higher than forecast economic growth and a massive sale of government assets of more than EUR 3 billion. You can only sell national property once. Think carefully about how you'll use it. Further increase in employment rates, to 75%, will also require important and painful decisions. Good government, do you have it? Either these concrete measures have still been kept to a minimum or they do not exist. The way in which the government parties have raised the issue of the financing of promises, i.e. strong faith and credit for a better tomorrow, does not seem sufficient when it comes to people's lives. We have a strong belief in the fact that money should be made before it is used. That's a pretty significant difference. The loose entries in the Government Programme are concrete for the entire eastern railway of South-East Finland and Eastern Finland for nearly one million people. Despite strong cooperation, the nine provinces' project is back on hold. Although there is talk of a relatively distant investment in the future, the starting point is moving further away. How do you explain this to the South Eastern and Eastern Finns who are constantly left behind? If priority were given to all rather than to good promises, well-functioning rail connections would be an excellent investment in the future for the benefit of people, nature, employment and the whole of Finland. There's a lot of good in education and training. I am extremely pleased that the government will continue to develop early childhood education, which has been initiated by the Assembly. It is there that the best way to influence the future of young people is to be able to do so. Investing in physical activity is also the only way to go. After that, the Rinte government program turns to coercion. If we look at the world of the future, do we want our young ones to become awake adults capable of their own choices, or are we content with the government directing us and our choices to the grave? The young person’s identity is built, not just in accordance with the mandatory steps, but through making his own choices and living with them. Freedom is happiness. The unclear answers here in the Chamber and in the Government Programme amaze me and worry me. But despite criticism, I wish the new government good luck. Above all, I hope that the important contributions I have made to physical activity and mobility, as well as the lives of children and young people, will not be stuck on the bench. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u282	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! För många är skärgården någonting av ett semesterparadis. Det är dit man far då man har ledigt, och det är dit man far då man vill koppla av. För oss som mor där betyder skärgården något helt you give.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u283	Mr President! For the sake of clarity, I would just like to point out from the previous speech that the property owner has, in many cases, paid a property tax on private nature reserves, that the government programme will remedy this. The programme states that areas which have been protected under the Nature Conservation Act are also exempt from property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u284	Mr President! A number of good things have been recorded in the Government Programme regarding learning and education, which can be welcomed. In the Government Programme, special attention has been paid to the ability of children and young people to cope with various disciplines. To this end, significant efforts are to be made to support mental health, which in practice is reflected in the increase in the number of school psychologists and school curators. As a municipal decision-maker, I know that school psychologists have been difficult to get into schools throughout the country. The problem has been alleviated, for example, by school psychologists who have allowed low - threshold help for schoolchildren to talk about their problems before they turn into larger knots. It is certainly not a matter of recording quotas for professionals with the highest level of education in the law, but of allowing adults with training in this field to do preventive work on mental health. I am also concerned about the ability of teachers to cope. The world is changing, and so is the school world. Over the past ten years, a lot of additional work has been carried out by teachers who have been obliged to draw up more and more individual learning plans and special programmes for learners. This has also become permanent in the basic work of planning, teaching and repairing experiments. In addition, teachers hold parental services, organise parental evenings, communicate in Wilma and develop school without a separate remuneration. The peace of work in schools has deteriorated for many reasons and has inevitably affected the school satisfaction of both teachers and pupils. Children's and young people's behaviour has increased and, at the same time, teachers have been deprived of the means to intervene in the peace of work. As a new phenomenon in the school world, the misuse of technology has become an unpredictable form of bullying against both pupils and teachers. Mr President! Overall, the strain of the school world has begun to be seen in the fact that the education sector is no longer as attractive as it used to be. Young students apply to other fields because they feel that the school world is hard for a modern teacher. An increasing number of teachers also give up their teacher’s work and apply for other jobs when they feel that the teacher’s work has become mentally too challenging. I am pleased that the Government Programme has set out the objective of looking at the inclusion from the point of view of the ability of teachers. The goal of Inclusion to bring different students to the same teaching was beautiful in thought but has not worked as desired because of the non-existent resources allocated to it. As I myself have experienced as a teacher, even a group of more than 30 students is manageable when learners form a homogenous group of their skills. Also, I know that one person who is having a problem confuses even a small group, removing the peace of work from other learners and teachers. I would like the new Minister of Education to take to heart the ability of teachers to cope with their work. A survey is needed of the field, of the teachers at work, as to whether the current measures to safeguard school and work peace are sufficient. There is also a need to take action not to add endless new obligations to the teachers' job description, which burden the teacher and are out of the basic work. It is a matter for Finland in the future that our children and young people should continue to teach the best teachers. At present, this objective will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u285	Mr President! This is a good time to comment on a few speeches. This book isn't a fairy tale book, is it? It is a government programme, and Mr Laakso said, among other things, that there is no specificity in this programme. In my opinion, there is a great deal of concreteness in this programme, and fortunately many Members have also found it in concrete terms. Among other things, Mrs Suomela made a good point about what will now be done regarding sexual offences legislation. We will reform this legislation so that the definition of rape in criminal law is changed to a lack of consent. We will expand the services of support centres for victims of sexual crime and extend it throughout Finland. At all, we will invest more in helping the victim of crime. In my opinion, these are all very good examples of the concrete nature of this government programme. However, there are still problems in this good country of ours. One of the big problems, which can also be called a disgrace to Finland, is that violence against women is far too widespread. That is why this government also wants to tackle this problem by drawing up, among other things, a programme to combat violence against women and by investing in strengthening the role of victims of crime. There will be reforms in the courts, which mean that in practice the victim or witness of a crime, or even the accused in general, could present his case once again and that the same evidence as that presented in the court of first instance could then be used at subsequent courts, such as the court of appeal. Therefore, it will also facilitate the status of a crime victim. The victim would not have to tell many times about the difficult, difficult experience he has experienced. There is therefore a great deal of concreteness in this good government programme, and I urge all representatives to read it with accuracy. There's a lot of good here, and it's good to see that there's a lot of good here, too, in the back row. Finally, it is extremely important that the government has seen the need for further investment in the whole chain of justice. The number of police officers will increase, but prosecutors, the judiciary and enforcement will also receive more resources. And it is needed in a rule of law such as Finland, where the principles of the rule of law are strongly cared for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u286	Yes, and back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u287	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinte's Government Programme shows that the policy change required by Finns is at last true. The public debate has been marked by disbelief and awareness of the incitement of fears. Yesterday and today, a number of speeches have been made in this Chamber which show that the records of the government programme are not necessarily familiar with. This may be a deliberate misunderstanding, but if this is not the case, serious concern arises about the internal literacy of those who exercise the highest political decision-making power. Yesterday on the morning train it was refreshing to hear a business representative who focused on the bioeconomy, with his eyes shining, surprised that there is so much good in this program as long as he actually reads it. However, the work is only just beginning. The policy pursued by the government must be critically assessed. I do not believe that public confidence in the future, let alone political decision-making, will be strengthened by digging deep pots already in the early stages of the season. The people demand the ability to cooperate constructively. Let us respond to this demand with honor. A broad common view across party boundaries is that we must take seriously the risks to the sustainability of public finances. The uncertainties surrounding the world economy and the highly dependent employment development are certainly these issues. Every government program involves risks. It should therefore be noted that experts are being listened to and changes in the operating environment are being monitored. The policy to be implemented is designed to reflect the cyclical forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. The fiscal policy now called socialist is in line with the guidelines that are increasingly required at international level. As growth slows down, surgery alone eats up the slightest prospect of success. That is why we are forced to look further into the future. Every representative knows how long social changes are going to take. The tempting education and employment policies of recent years have become expensive. A long-term and responsible policy and the use of researched information are a cross-cutting red thread in the Government Programme for Equality, Justice and Humanity. The Government Programme includes a large number of measures to strengthen the economy, employment and support entrepreneurship. There are also large-scale transport infrastructure projects and the extension of the MAL agreements. Thank you very much for these entries also on behalf of Central Finland and Jyväskylä. The Government invests strongly in knowledge, education and research as well as basic services, care and care for ordinary people. Today we met with the Advisory Board of Pensioners' Associations in Central Finland. They expressed their thanks for the books that improve the well-being of pensioners and elderly people. They also undertook to ensure that reforms were carried out. That is certainly something that we can all agree with. The programme will address climate change and at the same time create conditions for product development and new emerging export sectors. The most vulnerable are better cared for, respect for undivided human dignity. It is extraordinary how enormous opposition to these goals now prevails. No government or government program is perfect. However, the government of the slopes will correct the broken structures of the welfare society, strengthen confidence in politics and social justice. It secures the conditions for growth. Mr President! The understanding that society is not managed, developed and wealth increased only on market terms is shared. This does not mean that business law is not understood, that export conditions or, for example, the importance of entrepreneurship are not appreciated — quite the contrary. Now the government has a place of proof, and the same applies to the opposition. However, the biggest point of display is in this gym as a whole. The Government—Opposition is part of democratic democracy, and there is a need for a tight debat. Finns expect, however, that slander and wilful disillusionment and misunderstanding of one another and, above all, political theatre will cease. I know that there are many representatives in this Chamber who share this view. Let us uphold it across party boundaries. And finally, as a matter of course, I warmly express my confidence in Prime Minister Rinte's government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u288	Here, from time to time, a few delegates stand up and try to answer. It is now a line that we should take these pre-ordered speeches at least for a while before we go to the debate. — Representative Field Fabric.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u289	Mr President! With a fast schedule, the government has completed a largely dream-based epic, which I, as a realist, cannot accept without chewing. Of course, there are good records, but much of them are measures to increase taxation and reduce the living conditions of an ordinary worker. The government's 700 million-dollar budget for development aid is an irresponsible policy. According to experts, the money is often, in part, directed towards the costs of large development organisations. The question arises as to whether the billions divided over time have built those alleged wells and schools or have paid for the well - being of corrupt officials and the new jeeps of tribal chiefs. This government humbly asks and asks the European Union, according to its government programme, to increase the VAT threshold to EUR 15000, compared to a long time ago, for example, Estonia, which belongs to the European Union. Well, you dare to bring in such a government programme, which, as a net contributor, carries a hat all over Europe, a Europe that wants to swallow up our sovereignty completely. Nor is the preservation of independent Finland highlighted in the Government Programme. When I look at the composition of the government, I don't blame you. Mr President! I try to understand the Finnish people who want to save the whole world at the expense of Finnish industry. I am well aware that there is no shared understanding for everyone that Finland cannot survive without industry, but as a politician I do not have to accept the absurdity and the climate of intimidation that comes with climate hysteria, which is being fomented to gain the reputation of climate guru in the world, even though Finland's emissions in this universe are like sand crumbs in the Sahara. Congestion charges in urban areas, increases in gas prices, fines for the use of fossil fuels, for example, increase the costs of a transport company and drive the smallest to bankruptcy without doubt. Do you call this sustainable development? With your climate policy, you are pushing for more insurmountable challenges and demands for our industry and, for example, you are driving peat entrepreneurs and their employees into the card. What's downtown doing with this? What does the center do when the greens come to demand that the countryside stop fur farming? There's not much downtown in the hall. You are talking about the positive development of household purchasing power and, at the same time, you are calculating household deductions in taxation. Is it a positive development that a family smoker pays more for his pack than 1.8 euros in this reign and children for their weekend sodas? You are removing administrative zoning and other obstacles to the construction of unprofitable wind power, while bureaucracy beats almost every entrepreneur regardless of the sector. Is that where Pekkarinen was admitted? Excuse me, Congressman Pekkarinen. You wonder about the electricity transmission prices while giving the minister's portfolio to the man who was the minister of responsibility when our electricity grid was sold. According to the Minister's own words, the electricity grid was sold in the light of false or incomplete information. Hard is trust today. Well, on the other hand, the then Prime Minister also promised and swore that the electricity transmission charges would not go up when the state monitored their development. Did the state sleep, or did the then minister merely speak against his better knowledge, like everyone whose handprint on the sale of electricity grids rest? After reading through the government program, I noticed that the government is going to find out over 130 things and dream that about 60,000 people are going to work with a stick and squatting. In addition, people want to make driving a sin. What kind of government sets itself the goal of employing 60,000 people and at the same time mentions that if this does not happen, then we will do something else? What else, I ask, and with what is it financed “something else ”? Mr President! I will quickly take up the record of hate speech mentioned in the Government Programme. As it is now mentioned in the official government programme, I will be asking a written question. Now we need to find a comprehensive set of instructions, what it is, what order it is, and what words are hate speech. Interpretation cannot be a procedure in Western society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u290	Mr President! Not long ago, before the elections, almost every party promised as soon as possible to raise the nurseship to 0.7 in 24-hour care. At that time it was calculated to cost between EUR 200 million and EUR 250 million. That promise can now be found in the Government Programme, but it is clear from the annex to the Government Programme that only EUR 70 million has been earmarked for this. Everyone understands that this money will only provide a fraction of what you have promised your constituents. A deep wave of disappointment will be with the nurses, the elderly and their loved ones. Disappointment is great, and trust in politicians is struck again. Who wants to vote any more? Who will believe another word of what you and we promised before the election? Mr President! The reason for this is that it would require 4,000 new nurses, which we do not have, but we all know that there are tens of thousands of nurses in Finland who are doing something other than nursing. The other day I was in Rovaniemi at a meeting with the entrepreneurs in Lapland where a K-retailer told me that he had three nurses at work. I mean, at the K-Mart. The problem is not that we do not have nurses, but that they are fleeing from nursing work and that they have been assigned tasks that are not part of the nursing work. These other works were listed by one nurse: “Ticken,catalysts,washing tables,washing tables,cleaning tables,spice toilets,washing-wheel chairs,jet rooms, sweep floors,manufacturer’s dishes,frozen dishes,substances,care and space aids, I hold with the palavers and guardians,the supply of supplies to the customer isrequired from the store,transmitter mail-types. There will be more and more work related to non-care.” The Government Programme states that the division of labour between staff and support services will be clarified and indeed needed. It is a waste of resources to make cooking, cleaning and so on with trained nurses. Part of that lack of 4,000 nurses would already be overcome by hiring more kitchen workers and cleaners for these auxiliary tasks. Mr President! There is a major problem with a nurse’s escape, either for other jobs or for nursing abroad. Norway and Sweden attract better wages and better working conditions. The need for nurses to be vaccinated in Finland also drives nurses to work elsewhere. In the other Nordic countries there is no need to do this. The truth is that Finnish nurses are underpaid, forced-vaccinated, overworked and underrated. One of the ministers of the last regime — I don’t remember who — presented import workers from the Philippines as the solution. I hope this government never sinks this low. The education, work ethic and professional skills of Finnish carers are the requested currency abroad. We must understand that we do everything we can to ensure that they stay in Finland and do nursing work in Finland. I am convinced that when working conditions in old age work are corrected by the addition of nurses and the nurses are taken away from kitchen work and cleaning, nurses will be found. Removing the vaccination requirement for at least an annual influenza vaccination would contribute to reducing the care leave, as well as more flexible rotation arrangements. There will also have to be more money for remuneration in the future, otherwise we will be left at the feet of Sweden and Norway. It cannot be that nurses are trained in Finland for the needs of other Nordic countries. In Norway, a nurse earns twice what she earns in Finland without overtime and night shifts. In Sweden, too, the wage development of carers has been spectacular in recent years. The first step in the day-to-day care of the elderly is to raise the care size to the promised 0.7 as quickly as possible to correct the work comfort and workload of the carers. This requires both courage and a little more money. You seem to have the money, but do you have the courage?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u291	Mr President! In this speech, I would like to comment on a few contradictions in the government programme. First, however, I will answer Mr Kärnä's question yesterday. He asked why we Finns do not want to send hundreds of millions of euros of Finnish taxpayers' money to Africa. That is because we Finns want to spend that money to improve the well-being of Finnish elderly and sick people here and now. Development aid should not be increased by hundreds of millions of euros, because there is simply no such allocation, and countries that do not accept their expulsions from Finland should not receive development aid at all. Finland has long been a indebted country, and, as Mr Lepomäki said yesterday, this government programme seems strongly to continue and even accelerates. I believe that the hundreds of millions of euros that the Rinte government is now going to spend on Africa should be directed, for example, towards improving the standard of living and the quality of life of small pensioners in Finland. Right now, we're talking about 50th May Day, which means half of the promised May Day sat down somewhere. But so it goes in politics too often: lots of promises, less deeds. — — — — As an aside, 650 more police officers were promised in the run-up to the elections, but now there are only 300 more policemen, which is far too small to ensure a sufficient level of public security and protection of property. Mr President! The government plans to raise taxes on fuel, tobacco, alcohol and heating oil. In addition, the household allowance will be cut. In the meantime, I tell you that there are about 200,000 oil - heated small houses in Finland, some 100,000 of which live in retired elderly people. The question, then, is whether it will melt the 50th of May into these government tax increases and cuts in the household allowance or whether the small pensioner will even be defeated. During the past year, my municipality of residence, Tampere, has increased or is about to increase the fee for ter-veyskeskus and dental care, the cost of bus tickets and parking and property tax. We also received a new tax on waste water. These above-mentioned increases in taxes and charges in Tampere and other municipalities also affect small pensioners. I think it is critically important to look at how different increases in taxes and charges and cuts treat people on low incomes. At least 600,000 people live below the poverty line in Finland. They must not be made poorer by any reason, or even under the pretext of climate hysteria, but their financial position must be improved. When you use the word ‘diversification’,you should mean everyone in Finland. In addition to economic theories and Excel tables, sensory perceptions must also be included in decision-making and listened with a sensitive ear to those small people who are unable to defend themselves against the great policies of politicians. Mr President! Finally, I would like to remind the government that when the tax burden on citizens is increased, it does not automatically mean more tax revenue in the state treasury. Among other things, Estonia experienced this during the previous government: when they increased the taxation of alcoholic beverages, the accumulation collapsed. Today, the new Estonian Government will reduce the tax burden on alcoholic beverages by 25%, as they aim to increase tax revenue through, among other things, increased shopping tourism and related business activities. In this way, Finland should at last learn to think about the cause of taxation — the consequences. I respectfully say that you too, Prime Minister Rinne, should come away from the wrong side of history in a few things. Taxation is one of those things. When there is a border between two countries and taxation on the other side of the border is significantly more moderate than on the other side, even without a university degree, it is possible to determine in which country business, trade and productive jobs are more easily created. I say to the centre that you cannot brag about the fact that business taxation was not increased. If you had been able to reduce the tax burden on businesses and entrepreneurs, you would have got a feather in your hat. Now the feather won't come.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u292	Mr President! Cooperation between the major parties should be the primary starting point for the formation of a government. This time, however, there was no respect for the record firm election result. By way of exception, both the second and third largest party in the Parliament was pushed aside at the end of the government confessions. From a democratic point of view, it would have been important to try to form a government on the basis of two or three major parties. Traditionally, the parties that have suffered a major election defeat have voluntarily moved into the opposition, but now, for some reason, these principles, which have been found to be successful over time, have been rejected. Mr President! It will be very difficult for the government parties to meet the high levels of election promises they have made and the high expectations they have given citizens. Its minority parties, the centre and the RKP, at least in the past, have been in favour of their fresh green left-wing government partners with a much stricter economic line — let us see whether they will be in the future. Otherwise, the government of the five parties does not appear to be very united in all respects, and it will certainly not be any easier when the parliamentary term is well under way. Mr President! Even before the appointment of the government, the difficult environmental and industrial policy differences between the Centre and the Greens were raised as a result of the public debate on new pulp mill projects. The Finns Party called on the government to guarantee the operating conditions of Finnish work, entrepreneurship and industry. Otherwise, the government programme and the 2% economic growth required by it will completely drop the economic base. Mr President! The Government's objective of balancing public finances by the end of the parliamentary term is in itself the right one, but a government programme based on numerous future reports, and in particular its economic guidelines, need a great deal more realism and concreteness. In addition to the one-off investments, the Government intends to increase public expenditure by more than EUR 1.2 billion permanently and to cover the resulting deficit, including revenue from state assets. However, there is no point in giving up productive assets, at least not at any cost. It would be very short-sighted, but certainly not an unprecedented policy. Mr President! To stop debt, the employment rate also needs to be raised to at least 75%. However, the search for employment measures has been outsourced to the social partners, who have considered the timetable set for them to be quite ambitious. A possible economic downturn would further hamper the achievement of the Government’s objectives. Mr President! As has already been said on many occasions, there are also, of course, a number of positive objectives in this Rinte government programme. These include, for example, the removal of the active model cutter and a small reduction in income tax. At the same time, however, the government intends, among other things, to reduce domestic reductions and increase the taxation of heating fuels, to increase fuel taxes by EUR 250 million, and to make it possible to introduce tolls in urban areas. The costs of housing and mobility for many people on low and medium incomes are threatening to rise significantly, as are employment and enterprise. In the field of education as such, the government, which is seeking to improve itself, is quite amazingly planning to reduce the choice of upper secondary school studies by returning the Swedish matriculation examination as a compulsory subject alongside the mother tongue. The record-long government programme also includes, for example, a substantial increase in the amount of development aid already paid for by debt and the relaxation of immigration policy. The government is planning to increase the refugee quota and to grant more flexible work permits to people who have received a negative asylum decision. At the same time, the risk of creating cheap labour markets increases. Mr President! So we now know the guidelines on how the country is to be governed for the next four years. However, the first significant legislative proposals by the Government will not be available for Parliament until the autumn, and when the Rinte Government adopts its first draft budget, it will also be possible to find out how the rich promises of the Government Programme are to be financed. We will then see what the concreteisation of the Government Programme entries means for a normal Finnish taxpayer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u293	Mr President! It is an extremely good and respectable goal to build a safe country in Finland to live and live in, where everyone is cared for, which is equal and fair. Who wouldn't want that? How could anyone resist such a thing? I encourage everyone to do so because it gives hope, it gives faith — again things that are very difficult to resist and there is no reason to do so. But how realistic is the government’s picture of the challenges and problems it promises to help with its program? I'm opening up a little realism about security. Narcotics crime has exploded completely in the hands of the nation. You only have to go a few hundred meters to that Railway Station, and you can see for yourself how drug crime is rampant in the middle of the day under the eyes of passersby, and the use of drugs is no longer covered up in any way. That is as far as the situation is concerned. The change in this area is staggering. The youngest participants in pot - burning rings are barely ten years old. The most striking thing about these neanderthals is that they do not consider the use of drugs anything, even though an adult happens to ask questions about children’s activities. Drug trafficking on anonymous networks is extremely easy and the risk of being caught is very low. More so than ever, young people will be able to develop a very deep dependence on hard materials and may never end up in the hands of the authorities or it will be far too late. This is also a new phenomenon. It goes without saying that criminal investigations on anonymous networks are very laborious and time-consuming. It requires a resource. In this courtroom, sexual crimes have been brought up several times. Is there any idea what it is to investigate such crimes, especially when they target children? Let us not forget that these crimes are also committed by the native Finns, and they are often completely incomprehensible in their cruelty. In such crimes, child interrogation is extremely demanding and time-consuming and, at the same time, mentally very consuming. Cops investigating these crimes are left entirely alone, because the cases are so sick and twisted that no one wants to harm themselves by hearing about them. In practice, these cases are mentally handicapped by the police investigating them. The feeling is very strong that it has fallen into a deep, cold well that will never be able to escape again. Sedentary stress is very strong, and the situation is not eased by the violent cumulative stress that has accumulated for years. The situation reflects the whole life. But consider the victims — how deeply are they damaged, how alone are they? These are just a few glimpses of the realistic picture of the situation that exists outside this bubble within which we are here and decide people's affairs. There'd be plenty of examples. Yesterday I listened with concern to the statement by the recent Minister for the Interior that the Government Programme guarantees the basic security of citizens. Every party that marched into the Regent House was committed to increasing the number of police officers by 650. That would have been an absolute minimum that would have brought relief to the worst distress, but still there would have been plenty of work to do. They came out of the Regent House with 300 additional police officers. After all, it's going forward, even if it's falling down, but practically that addition is nowhere to be seen. The emphasis on the Government Programme is also strange in this respect. The relief is not directed to where it is most needed. There is a crying shortage of additional hands, especially in criminal investigations, where scientists have been drowning in their huge stories for years. Even the alarm missions fail to handle 100,000 a year because there is no one to send there. Representatives Salmon and Kärnä said that the police’s prospects in sparsely populated areas will be increased and the maximum response time will be set for the police. It is worth paying attention to these things again. In particular, Mr Kärnä knows that the further north we go, the longer the distances are. Without an adequate increase in the resource, it is pointless to create tough response times. The maximum response time will cover the whole country, which means that without adequate resources, the police must be transferred from the centres to sparsely populated areas. They were only taken out of there by means of a change in the administrative structure. The representative, Mr Lindtman, commendedly pointed out how, for the first time in ten years, the number of policemen is now rising.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u296	I am not opening up the debate, but when Mr Lindtman's name was mentioned here, that is how much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u297	Mr President! I appreciate Mr S.H.I.E.L.D.'s expertise in justice and public administration. However, I would like to say two things: It is true that the number of policemen has been falling for more than 12 years than the cowtail, and it is precisely those 12 years that the coalition has been in the government and, in most cases, in demanding the most savings. And for the first time, we're going to turn around. And I find it a little strange the logic that, while the government is being accused of spending too much money on permanent expenditure, at the same time it is being criticised here that there are too few police officers, especially when we have been cutting. But this is not the case. Of course, S.H.I.E.L.D. wasn't guilty. And as far as these sexual crimes are concerned: During the last parliamentary term, all parliamentary groups agreed to tighten the penalties for sexual offences. Unfortunately, the then government, the coalition on the front, prioritised the reform of social security in the Constitutional Committee and failed to implement it. Now it's happening. And thirdly, the status of the victim of crime will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u298	Minister Ohio has also been mentioned, and he will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u299	Mr President! Thank you, Mr S.H.I.E.L.D., for a very good speech. If a representative: S.H.I.E.L.D. has been here for these two days to listen, and I have repeatedly pointed out that the number of police officers is by no means the only way in which this government intervenes in inequality, exclusion, the sense of public security. I have mentioned on several occasions that overall safety arises from a wide range of issues, including how people get along in this society, whether there is a roof on the head and food on a plate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u300	Now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u301	Mr President! Today I was walking in that main lobby of Parliament and I looked from the windows past the pillars to that square, and there were quite a lot of people at the Oodi library and elsewhere, Mannerheimintie had a lot of traffic, and earlier there was a few people mowing the lawn. The only thing I wonder about it is that these people have no chance of affecting their safety here in Finland. Instead, they rest their hope on us for us to do it. Those pillars separate us from these citizens in that we have power, they do not. It seems that when people get into this hall, at some point the ark seems to be forgotten. People on the other side of the pillars cannot, for example, go home at dark time, take a taxi when they go to the gym, for a jog, do not get to go straight home from the door of the Parliament. They're the ones who carry that ark all the time. It is quite incomprehensible that, here, this security is not the top priority for us parliamentarians, and especially now for the government, when you read through your programme. Instead, they say that you can make a difference, you can vote, and these people voted in the previous elections. Until a few months ago, the Finns of Peru had 17 MPs, and of the 17, we raised that figure by 22. Instead, in the center, it fell by 18. This is the difference between 40 MPs when we look at the change, and who sits in the government after such election results? Well, it's downtown. The centre supports this green-left government, and it is really nice to go back and say to the people that yes, you can influence, your voices matter because these voices have been pushed down the drain. How do you get the city centre out of power when, after 100 years of worst election results, you feel that your place is in the government? When you look at the government program you are going to implement, there are more than twenty pages of carbon sinks and others. When we look at asylum and refugee policy: one and a half pages. What's the content? Well, there, for example, is making family reunification easier, which means that humanitarian immigration is multiplying. It will improve the legal protection of asylum seekers, which in practice means that asylum seekers will be more likely to remain in this country. As regards these footbands, which was so much talked about, the vice-chairman of the Green Parliamentary Group explained to us what this really means. Mr President, this means that when we have people going to a detention facility who are illegally in a country that has been analysed as a security risk, they are put on foot and released among Finns. You know, when in one of the Hesperia parks or, say, in Oulu, in that part of the East Tuira district, a young girl like this comes up against an asylum seeker illegally residing in the country, it doesn't matter whether the asylum seeker has a collar or not, from the point of view of the girl who is being harassed. It does not matter at all and it does not improve safety at all. I cannot help but marvel at the fact that the government is not taking this security risk seriously, which this humanitarian immigration and these illegal residents are causing Finland, and at the same time we are prioritizing Africa geographically in development cooperation. Even in the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo, for example, there would be a double number of people living in that city, even if we invested in that city, we would have enough work to do, even if we invested in that country, we would have enough work to do, but no, an entire continent. I hope that this government will make a completely separate, decent immigration programme that takes seriously the safety of the girls in this country, women and older women, too, because that government programme is a complete mess when we look at that immigration part. I will personally watch, Antti Rinne, Prime Minister, that you are actually taking steps to improve safety. I feel like Sipilä's line is continuing, but it's weaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u302	Now Minister Marin has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u303	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that the debate in this Chamber is about the safety of Finnish people. I am sure we can all agree that this is a very important issue, and we must all join forces, both the opposition parties and the government, to draw attention to it. The Government Programme has taken the issue of security very seriously, very broadly, comprehensively, into account. Ministers Ohio and Henriksson have, for their part today, been responsible both for increasing the number of police officers and for the programme to combat violence against women, for investing in and providing resources for everyone in this country, from the point of view of security as extensive as it is, for example, for improving the position of women and girls, with additional reinforcements and resources. With regard to transport: Special attention will also be paid to transport safety in the Government Programme. Among other things, it states: ‘The improvement of transport safety will bereincorporated in the development of the transport and transport system. The objective is to respond to the EU’s zero scenario: zero road deaths by 2050.” The issue of security is therefore very wide-ranging. It has been taken into account here in the Government Programme as far as internal security is concerned, as far as safety is concerned, for example in the area of road safety, and here in general, of course, we have roads, railways and all other routes in proper condition. Now that the government is investing very strongly in the maintenance of the basic route, all of this will improve the safety of Finnish people and we can ensure that everyone in this country can live a safe life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u304	Mr President! I got a message from my retarded friend asking, "When are you gonna finish that shit?" He's not the only one asking. I read in the Government Programme: ‘The Government will launch preparations for the reform of the The preparatory work will take into account the preparation of the previous parliamentary term and the constitutional framework conditions. The reform will be carried out in a controlled and step-by-step manner. The focus of social and health care activities will be shifted to basic services and preventive activities.’ On Monday evening, I had a conversation with the concerned representatives of a small rural community. Theseresponsibles pleaded: ‘Take good people to the end of reform. Even Isaac’s church was completed in time. As the dependency ratio deteriorates and the population ages, social services should be provided on larger shoulders as soon as possible. We will not survive without it, we are already in trouble.” This is how the responsibility bearers of a small municipality fed us. The completion of the wars is a joint task of the whole Parliament. The reform is in a hurry. Let's move the foot from the brake to the gas. In order to develop social security, we are going to have to use this rather central model to bring the social welfare system to the finish line. I am thinking in particular of young people, whom I have been working on for a long time. How does the government program invest in youth? The programme increases the opportunities for young people to engage in hobbies. Exercise and mobility will be invested in, student care and student guidance will be strengthened, folk colleges and workshops will be able to implement individual study paths as part of the extension of compulsory education. Additional money is allocated to the outreach youth work, which cooperates well with the Ohjaamos in many localities. I want to talk to you for a second about these Cabins. ‘Best practice’ has been Cabins are low-threshold places where young people can come to, and where experts from different fields face young people and help them from the same door. The services of young people are in the same place at the same time. No one gets pushed around. Young people get support faster, more integrated, more coherent and easier, and waiting times are shorter. Threshold to seek help will be lowered. There are 70 different concepts operating in different parts of Finland that work together with youth work, schools, organisations and the Defence Forces. The activities are mainly funded by municipalities. Last year, there were, for example, 142,000 meetings with young people, 72,000 individual visits, 3,000 on-going meetings and 66,000 group meetings. Young people sought information from the Cabins and asked questions about work, entrepreneurship, education, studies, economics, health, home and leisure. Ohjaamo activities have highlighted a clear lack: we do not have enough mental health services for young people. These are the investments the government programme promises. In the future, we need coordination of this important Ohjaamo activity, which could be done, for example, by the ministerial group for children and young people mentioned in the Government Programme. Together, we will ensure that every young person has a hopeful view of the future, a meaningful path and tools to move towards education and work. The cockpits have found many people who have been completely out of society. Let us ensure that this work can continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u305	Mr President! Over the last few days, we have heard a number of speeches on issues between earth and heaven, which the whole of the Government Programme is, of course, an opportunity for. In this context, I will focus on one important entity of the Government Programme on the Government Programme's records on the development of the national transport network. Our transport network has a repair debt of EUR 2.5 billion and its condition is deteriorating every year. The safe and seamless movement of people and goods is under threat in an increasing number of areas. This is probably recognized by all the representatives of the various constituencies. For example, the development of the main rail network, the acceleration of journey times and the improvement of traffic transmission capacity are reaching an operational pain point to which this government is stepping up with strong steps. The records of the Government Programme related to the Finnish infrastructure network are built and balanced in support of the country's security of supply, competitiveness and reform capabilities, resource-wise and comprehensive development. In particular, there is a need to carry out a comprehensive impact assessment for rail and rail projects, and to plan and build them as a whole that works with the existing network. In addition to direct budget funding, the possibility of separate funding per project will be increased in a very sensible way. Rail transport measures will bring more passengers onto the tracks and support rational thinking. With regard to the main railway line, the Government Programme also notes that the main line is just the whole, and I believe that the Government is well aware of the planning needs of the double track between Tampere and Seinäjoki, for example. The 12-year transport system planning work mentioned in the Government Programme will be launched and identify the needs of the entire Finnish transport network. Here again, the Government is drawing up a strong regional policy programme, for which Finland of the provinces thanks. According to the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Group, an annual increase of EUR 300 million will be made in basic infrastructure management from 2020 onwards. The withdrawal ensures that the repair debt does not increase and that the existing repair debt can be broken down. A lower road network will also be put into shape. The critical specific needs of road transport infrastructure for industry and industry will also be taken into account. Mr President! The Government Programme on the development of the transport network is an honorable and concrete indication that the Government Programme will make a serious contribution to the smooth, safe and secure movement of Finnish citizens and residents throughout Finland. Transport measures are also part of employment, part of national infrastructure, which brings better daily life to every Finnish and regional Finland. Mr President! The Government Programme can and must be challenged in many ways. However, there is one thing that is difficult. The transport infrastructure entries send a strong signal that the government is serious about taking transport measures. These actions require the support of the whole Parliament without a government-oppositional arrangement, because we are talking to each of us about the issues that have given us our mandate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u306	Mr President! The discussion on the Government Programme has praised the many good measures that the government is putting forward and intends to take, for example, on basic security, the welfare of the sick, the disabled, the elderly. For families with children, the government program is excellent, even revolutionary. There are very good guidelines on how we can make our country even better for children, young people and families. It is clear that the permanent expenditure increases now being proposed will require higher employment, and the government is committed to increasing 60,000 new jobs. I believe that the most important policy of the Government Programme in terms of employment is that through the Government Programme there is a strong idea that we want to create a society in our country where work is increasingly appreciated. We need the appreciation of work and the thinking that every work is valuable and that whatever place it is working is involved in building this society. My late grandmother taught me an important lesson when I was a young man looking for my first job. He said you'd go up and be a fence pole at first. As long as you do some work, you get a foot in the door of work and that's where it goes. And so it went. In its programme, the government also decided that we should launch a comprehensive reform of social security, which will be prepared in parliamentary terms. It is possible for all parliamentary parties to join in, and that is the starting point. In that reform of social security, the key objective is to make it easier to reconcile work and social security, to encourage people to accept work, to make work even more profitable at all. In order to increase employment in this government programme there is concreteness, contrary to what some may have seen. Amongst other things, the Government aims to help people with part-time skills better into the labour market and to facilitate work-related immigration. The government decides to pursue active labour market policies. It should also be noted that the previous Sipilä Government, whose merits of employment and economic policy could not be denied on the basis of facts, did not define all its employment methods in detail in its programme, but were sought along the way. We live in a changing world. The same must be done now. This is the way in which our good programme states that if this objective is not achieved, the government will take decisive action to achieve it, and no means of improving employment will be excluded. If half of the 60,000 jobs target, the actions aimed at it, are not ready by the August 2020 budget debate, the Government will assess the expenditure increases previously decided upon. Someone said that there is no praise for entrepreneurship in this programme simply because taxation is not being tightened up, yet this programme has received a great deal of praise from entrepreneurs. Why? Because, even during the previous term of government, many really good decisions were taken on entrepreneurs and are now allowed to continue. The predictability and stability of business taxation is particularly important. It's worth a shot. It's worth a shot. Specific measures for agriculture are also important for the vitality of the country as a whole, and there are many of them in this government programme. One more thing I would like to raise about that programme: It very firmly addresses the domestic indoor air problem and offers a number of concrete solutions. That is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u307	Mr President! According to the group president of the SDP, yesterday, the voters sent a message of change in the parliamentary elections. Well, that's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u318	And Prime Minister Rinne, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u319	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. I am going to have to take up other duties here, and I thought, for my part, to make a closing statement to this debate and to thank Parliament for the proper and good debate that has taken place around the Government Programme, and also for the many valuable messages from the opposition, which have been listed in the government and will be transformed into action during this parliamentary term. So thank you for the debate. Mr Sankelo, I must have returned to this same subject four times during this debate, but now I am trying to do so in such a way that it certainly becomes clear this policy of forest use: It is a very important matter for living generations, for future generations and for the future of the entire civilisation of the earth at large how we manage climate change, global warming. This requires addressing both emissions and sinks, each country for its part, when the borders of the states do not place barriers to the diversion of CO2 emissions or emissions in general. It requires the responsibility of every country, every nation. In the Government Programme, we have the objective of reaching 2035, where Finland is carbon neutral and then soon carbon negative, and those measures must be started today – not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but today. That is why it is important to do all the things that reasonably lead to this carbon neutrality and then carbon negativity in the future, both on the side of emissions and then on the side of the sink. We need to get these carbon dioxides that have already been released out of the atmosphere by means of their sinks, because the earth will warm up for 50 years thereafter. Even if all emissions are stopped today, 50 years will still be warmed up, affecting the lives of children, grandchildren and future generations. It is therefore important to ensure that we make the right decisions. Just as important is Finland's development as a viable sustainable economy, as an ecologically sustainable, socially just state and society, and this is linked to the fact that we have enough jobs. From the point of view of wood production at the moment, the number of fellings could probably move around 110 million cubic metres. Then we must consider biodiversity, which reduces the number of fellings, and then also global warming, which also reduces the number of fellings. At the moment, we do not have enough researched data to determine how much of the production level of wood should come down, but estimates at the moment, the best expert estimates, move in such a way that some of these projects currently under economic evaluation will be carried out and in Finland we will have enough wood raw material for it. I have discussed the Kemi project with the people of Metsä Group, I have discussed the Kemijärvi project with Heikki Nivala and many other projects in Finland, and it is of course important from the point of view of the companies that are considering the implementation of these projects that there is approximately an estimate of how much forest can be used sustainably, and yes, they themselves assess how much wood can be cut from the perspective of global warming and biodiversity. What is essential here is the need to find a balance in which all the various interests can be properly realised. Of course, the main concern is how this earth will survive for posterity, and we, as I said, must shoulder our own responsibilities. But I understand that from the point of view of these companies, the key issue is how these investments are business-based — business-based — and that includes an assessment of how wood raw material can be obtained in Finland as a rule from private forests, but also from government forests. There are, of course, confidential discussions on these matters with regard to the state, and there are discussions that will then ensure that the supply of private forest raw material is in the right proportions, at least from the perspective of all three interested parties, in such a way as I have just described. It must also be remembered that if this global warming goes forward as expected, then the 8-degree warming that this 4-degree global warming is facing in Finland during the winter period will mean that our forest yields will be reduced. There will be pests and it will have a significant impact on forest growth. That is why, from the point of view of our own forest industry production, we need to build bridges properly there in carbon-free Finland. That is what I wanted to make clear here, that this government is not an obstacle to economically sound projects, but we will make sure that global warming, when this government is in power, goes downhill and decisions are taken that will have a long-term impact on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u320	Then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u321	Mr President! The first thing to do is to return to an unanswered question. Fortunately, Minister Ohio is still here. In other words, on the pedicure of those who have received a negative asylum decision, it has been asked several times whether it is a substitute or a complementary arrangement for detention. So if a person were otherwise going into detention, can he be released from detention by taking a legband or what is this about? I absolutely want to hear the answer to that. But by the way, at this stage of the debate, I would like to focus on things that have perhaps not been discussed so much so far. There has even been a lot of jokes about how many hundred things the government is going to find out, but perhaps it would be worth paying attention to what the government is not going to find out what has not been mentioned in the Government Programme for one reason or another. Let me give you three examples. First of all, Finnish ownership, preventing capital flight, how Finland would avoid becoming a subsidiary economy: How would we avoid that, now that we have a successful business, a growth company that expands its activities, we are immediately in a situation of becoming a foreign investor and buying it out? After that, the fate of the company is good or bad, but no longer in the hands of Finns. How can we get into a situation where Finns can afford to invest in growing companies, internationalising companies? Question two: How is retail investment secured? How can we achieve healthy folk capitalism, that is, that even in Finland, we would not live hand to mouth, but that Finns might have wealth for a bad day? After all, the wealth of Finns is far worse than in many other Western European countries. What improvements will be made to this? What about the inadequacies in inheritance tax? There is no mention of this either in the Government Programme. How will we improve the position of those who fall into the pits of inheritance taxation? How are we going to correct these shortcomings this season? What better way to make it possible for companies to switch from generation to generation? They are absolutely central to the government's employment objective. Yet the government program does not take any account of these issues. The release of alcohol policy in the third period: how will it be promoted during this period? We are only talking about raising the alcohol tax, which will inevitably lead to an increase in foreign imports. At least Finland's tax revenue on alcohol will not increase. The money travels abroad, the disadvantages remain in Finland. This doesn't make any sense. This goal is to saw its own branch. Does the government really not intend to liberalise alcohol policy in any way during this period and move it towards European drinking habits? One of the major issues mentioned in the Government Programme is the EU: There is a lot of talk about the EU, but there seems to be little to talk about. I myself, at least as a member of a large committee for some time, can hardly catch up with what the government programme actually promises in terms of the EU. The EU's net membership fee, an increase of hundreds of millions a year. The only mention is that we are trying to moderate these payments. What's that supposed to mean? The second point is that we are trying to get Finland's money back from the EU. What does that mean? What are we going to do about the EU? How does this sympathy that we are expressing for the EU materialise for the Finns? What interests and interests does the government now intend to promote in Europe? The only thing I did not catch up with in that programme is that the government is going to deepen the social dimension of the EU, but this is a bad goal for Finland. After all, Finland has better social security than many other EU countries. If the social dimension of the EU is deepened, that means, in practice, that Finns pay social security in other EU countries. Surely this cannot be the government's aim for Finns to pay social security for other EU countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u324	There the ministers, Mr Haavisto and Mr Ohio, ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u325	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä asks what is concrete about EU cooperation – and, of course, a lot concrete, but I will say a few words. Firstly, the EU issue is not just a question of membership, but it is extremely important to us what is happening in this Brexit process. Of course, we are trying to create a solution in which Finland's economic interests and our trade with Britain continue and will continue to be strengthened by the fact that the Brexit will not pay us through the weakening of these trade relations. We also have a very large number of companies that are dependent on foreign trade towards Britain. Secondly, the government is trying to strengthen the EU's foreign and security policy so that the EU uses a single voice and acts with one voice in today's world, where, as we know, the EU is under pressure in many ways, both in terms of trade policy and in political terms. This will also help to strengthen the EU. Then, when Mr Mäkelä took the third step in strengthening this social dimension of the EU, we also consider it to be a view that all countries should bear these social costs and take care of the minimum income and the interests of the citizens. It also paves the way for competitive advantages between countries when this is the case. You are right that these things are well organised in Finland, but we naturally hope that the same minimum security will exist in other EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u326	Mr President! On this earlier issue of technical control: After all, the Government Programme does not formally define what it is. I will read a direct entry from the programme: ‘Initiate a legislative amendment to change the foreignlaw,so as to make it an alternative toretention and obligation to live In practice, this may mean monitoring your phone's location data or other things. We've been talking about the footband here, but we don't talk about it in the government program at all. But it is only here that these means are being clarified, so that nothing concrete at this point is yet to be given.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u327	Let's not go to the debat. Some Members are asking, but let us prefer to stick to this list of speakers now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u328	Mr President, värderade talman! As has already been heard from several mouths, there are many reasons to thank the excellent government programme, but I would like to emphasise in just a few words its historical importance in understanding the current state of emergency in nature. The most recent threat assessment of Finnish species roughly tells us that one in ten of our species is endangered and this poor development continues in almost all of our habitats — beaches, forests, swamps, dunes, fields and fields — and half of Finland's 400 different habitats, 200, are endangered. Now this government understands the urgency and scope of the climate crisis and the measures needed to combat it. The Government Programme provides an excellent framework to concreteise and speed up the achievement of the objectives, including in order to combat biodiversity loss. No country in the world has yet managed to halt the loss of biodiversity. No government programme has ever sought to protect nature and halt its loss of diversity with such diverse and socially fair and sustainable records of measures. And what I find unparalleled is that the funding of nature conservation has been increased to EUR 100 million per year, a sum that has not been dared to dream of for many years. The Government Programme finally promises to achieve the UN's biodiversity goals. It increases the funding of Metso's programme and expands it to new habitats and implements an additional programme for soy protection. There's coverage in the code of conduct, and there's a lot of concrete work done here. Among other things, as Mr Hassi has already mentioned, it exempts areas protected by the Nature Conservation Act from real estate tax, pilots the use of ecological compensation for large infrastructure projects, promotes natural management of economic forests, the dumping of decay trees and stocks, the incineration, artificial owls, game grasses, protection zones. On the land of Metsähallitus, methods of continuous rearing are promoted. Furthermore, the fight against alien species will be stepped up and funding will be increased, as will the protection of current waters and the dismantling of unnecessary dams. And by changing the law of water, the better rise of the migratory fish into spawning places and so forth will be secured. The Government Programme will make international cooperation in nature conservation more effective, as part of the EU's Baltic Sea Strategy, among other things. This government programme understands the intrinsic importance of nature and its human health and vital benefits, so-called ecosystem services, including fresh water, wood raw material production, plant pollination, flood control and clean air.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u329	Mr President! During the last term of government, equality sat in opposition. The right-wing government scrapped the equality of day care, cut off education, weakened working life by despoiling the low-paid, female-dominated public sector and demanded active activity from the unemployed, but instead of carrots, it responded with a stick cutting unemployment benefit with an active model. The citizens wanted a change in the cutting policy of the previous government in the elections, and that is what they are now getting. Mr President! The winners in the parliamentary elections, i.e. the parties that increased their support most from the previous parliamentary elections in 2015, were the SDP, the Greens and the Left. It is natural that these election winners are now in government and in cooperation with the parties that wanted to cooperate, the parties that recognised the major issues of this time: the challenges of climate change and the importance of reducing inequalities. The government also has a clear majority in Parliament, 117 MPs, so the will of the voters is strongly realised. Mr President! Now the political direction is changing: Finland is being developed for the benefit of all, not just a few. That is why I am proud that the new government is now restoring subjective day care and reducing the number of groups in early childhood education. According to many studies, early childhood education is one of the smartest ways to strengthen skills and reduce the marginalisation of children. On the basic education side, the Government will launch a quality and equality programme to improve learning outcomes and reduce inequalities. It is therefore very important that the resources for learning support are also reviewed from the perspective of equality of pupils and the ability of teachers to cope. In my home town, Kerava has wanted to offer all children an opportunity to engage. Free leisure clubs have been arranged in connection with school days. It is great that the government wants to continue its work and replicate this model, which is modelled on Iceland, into a national approach. Mr President! During the last government term, vocational education and training was one of the biggest reforms in its history. At the same time, the right-wing government cut the funding for vocational education and training, and the trail was fierce. Numbers of interruptions in vocational schools grew, and links to working life weakened. The new Government of the People's Front intends to reassure the situation by significantly increasing funding and also strengthening local education in vocational education. All young people must have the opportunity to succeed and thrive in the future. Therefore, the extension of compulsory education to 18 years of age and free secondary education are key reforms of the Government Programme that increase equality. In working life, the government intends to promote equality through the implementation of family leave reform, the continuation of the equal pay programme and the dismantling of the unfair active model. Mr President! Personally, I think it is particularly important that the government goes down the price of living. Low-paid workers must also have the right to live in the capital region close to the job and in other major growth centres, and it is therefore important that affordable ARA housing production is significantly increased. The goal is to build at least 10,000 new affordable prices annually, of which more than half are located in the Helsinki region. In addition, the government is looking for ways to prevent excessive rent increases. Similarly, the status of tenants will be strengthened by reforming the 31-year-old Joint Administrative Law, which regulates the decision-making power of residents in rental and right-of-occupancy communities built with state support. The new government will also halve homelessness during this parliamentary term, and the long-term objective is to eliminate homelessness in two electoral periods. Mr President! The value of society is not measured by the number of millionaires, but by how it cares for its weakest. The new government means the end of a tough right-wing cutting policy and a change of direction in Finnish politics. The recent government is a step towards a more equal and fairer Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u330	Mr President! We are having a debate on the Government's communication on the Rinte Government's programme. The atmosphere, both in politics and in our society, is similar to the need for more bridge builders than for wall designers. Building a bridge is evidence of the parties' common will, commitment. If one side is designed but one side is broken down or even burned, it is difficult to see that the bridge works, let alone someone could walk or carry something. So there is a need for a common will. By the autumn at the latest, we will measure the issues in which the government has the will to build a bridge. It remains to be seen how the Rinte Government wants to involve Parliament, for example, in the reform of social security or the like. It was not directly found in the Government Programme. On many occasions, the Rinte government program resembles a letter written to Santa rather than a government programme. Sometimes a child writes Santa a letter with many possible hopes without a realistic basis. The government has every right to the WWI, and it's great that it's done it. We'll see what happens in the middle row. Then we will see what Santa will bring and what gifts have been decided not to be implemented. At this point, like a child, it is to be hoped that Santa and his elf will work hard. I will focus on a few points: the view that the exclusion of young people will be corrected by raising the compulsory school age to 18 years, reducing the household allowance and measures to increase employment — or, in fact, what they could be. I was already in the debat to thank Prime Minister Rinde. I will say that here. Mr Rinne said that the government is open to all the means by which employment continues to rise. This goodwill of the government is also recorded in the Government Programme as follows: ‘The government’s contribution to improving employment outside the scope of the review. “ That's good. This would be a list of five points which, if implemented, would increase employment. What does Prime Minister Rinne say, is the increase in employment, on which all the good wishes of the government are based, a genuine objective? I propose that the costs of family leave be shared more evenly, that local arrangements be made for all jobs, that family leave reform be carried out without additional quotas, that bureaucratic access testing be abolished and that a simple, inclusive social security system be put in place to encourage study or work rather than idleness. So how about the distribution of all the costs of family leave to society as a whole? Now, some of the payments are only paid by mothers' employers. Will you allow any company and workplace to agree on matters locally? Most jobs are created and have been created by SMEs in the 21st century. However, the Government Programme states that local agreements are only promoted through collective and collective agreements. Unorganised workers and employers cannot apply the local flexibility of collective agreements. How would this be a good solution in Finland in the 2020s? We know how it has been resolved in the last millennium. Do you undertake a family leave reform that takes into account the variety of life situations in different families — including our mothers’ will to work and build our society? A mere lifting of the father’s months may sound good, but it will reduce employment and would be an expensive measure on its own. Are you gradually dismantling the question of the availability of foreign labour? I can tell many, many stories about the last period in which an honest entrepreneur has only been bounced before the administration and has not been able to hire idle new employees just because one employee does not have an EU passport. Are we really implementing simple and inclusive social security? Someone who takes out incentive traps and always encourages people to work. For the dismantling of support jungles, we offer a general support model as a basic option. Over the last 15 years, far too many young people have been excluded. It is generally thought that the problem and the reason is that a child or young person is excluded from education. But it's the other way around. The survey of NEET young people in 2017 gave rise to three main reasons: lack of friends, mental health problems and discrimination. Far away, not even top ten, was a lack of education. It is therefore necessary to invest in early years and in basic education so that everyone, regardless of background, is able to take further action. End: Since there are so many surveys and castles in the government program, this list of Santa Claus, I really hope that the power will be with the government. Let Finland's power be at the work of ministers, more than 80 assistants and commentators so that genuinely, socially, ecologically and economically sustainable solutions, rationality and Finnish people can win.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u331	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, there is something good in this programme of yours, and I am happy to support it. On page 175, sport is mentioned and it is said that ‘promoting the mobility of disabled sports and older people’. I would recommend adding sports to that sentence as well. There are good things here: increasing social assistance, and in particular for this, I am pleased to see that ‘increases the funding of top-level sport and the promotion of species to be allocated, and carry out a study on theneed for state-of-the-art sports law in line with the report on sport policy’. There has been much talk of equality, and Finland is a developing country of individual sport when compared to many other countries. It would be very equal if Finnish athletes were given equal opportunities to practice their own sport and actually train themselves properly. I have been paying for a very long time here, and I am not only talking about myself, but also about the financial burden on the parents of all the other young people who are going to succeed in the individual species. Second grade — as I myself have put it — is an obligation to study or study: we have talked a lot about the compulsory nature of studies, and now that the second level comes under the obligation to study or study, there are good things about it, and I believe that it may now be a necessity, but if it is done successfully, then maybe in five to ten years it will feel just a duty. This is how we get students who do not need special support without a degree, and I am prepared to support this second-degree compulsoryity. When it is said that the age limit for compulsory education is raised to 18 years, I myself wonder whether it is a legal solution, that it mentions the age when perhaps it might be wiser to complete secondary school. However, there are challenges here as far as this is concerned: Unfortunately, special groups need to be set up in secondary vocational schools so that these weaker troublemakers do not terrorise ordinary students — I do not mean, of course, that the weaker terrorises, but I mean the troublemakers. Then, too, the challenge is that if some do not get on the line they want to go to a vocational school, they should be guaranteed the opportunity to complete the tenth grade in such a way that they can raise the numbers. The kind of thing that worries me and has cost a lot of parents so far is that when high school books have been renewed almost every two years, is it now appropriate to buy new books for all students or is it meant to go by municipality, so that a book is selected and these books are then recycled there. I do not know what the limit is, but I am sure that publishing houses may raise a little bit more about this reform. Maybe this one here. Perhaps such a small question on nature conservation arose from what Mr Petelius said: what is a property eligible as a nature reserve with a property tax at the moment, when Mr Petelius said that it would be exempt from the property tax associated with it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u332	I would remind Members of this time limit of about 5 minutes. There are no pre-requested speeches and I am a little more flexible. Then I would also like to remind Members that when we talk about fellow Members, we always say, for example, 'Representative Petelius'.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u333	Mr President! The Government Programme has a lot of good things and views about what a dream society is like: forests and parks green, children are born into an equal world where everyone is respected, everyone gets a good life regardless of age. Any one of us can paint such a picture of a dream society, but the government programme must also find ways of achieving it. This government programme relies to a large extent on growth in employment, but there is no real and effective means of increasing employment. Support employment is valuable and important in itself, but it is not the solution to achieving the 75% employment target. The key word for employment growth is entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is the one that creates jobs and strengthens the economy. Entrepreneurship must therefore be ensured and its operating conditions ensured. There are good things in the Government Programme from the perspective of a small entrepreneur. The problem arises when we have to move on to the concrete side, for example — in this context, direct quotes — ‘business growth andreforms can be made possible to identify the needs of different businesses, while ‘or’the threshold for start-up and training of enterprises is being lowered, andpromoting the entrepreneurial climate and workinglife skills, byimproving other forms of understanding of entrepreneurship and working life’. In other words, fine and important words, but a more entrepreneurial attitude alone is not enough; concrete measures are actually needed. Of course, attitude is a first step. In order to actually increase employment, significant reforms and improvements are needed. For example, the traps must be removed and bureaucracy must be dismantled. The Government Programme does not provide clear solutions to these issues. Unfortunately, matters affecting entrepreneurship indirectly have not been taken into account in the Government Programme. For example, congestion charges and other taxes related to driving. Many entrepreneurs need tires and logistics costs increase. These increases can be seen by both entrepreneurs and final consumers, for example, in the form of price increases due to increased costs. One big reason why Finland does not want to become an entrepreneur is that if you fail, the consequences are too severe. At its worst, the entrepreneur loses all his or her assets, remains personally liable for debts and remains in a long-term debt trap. The Government Programme refers specifically to the entrepreneur’s ‘new start’ in the quotes. What do these quotes mean? In any case, it is good that the government programme mentions the implementation of the EU insolvency directive and assesses its overall effectiveness, but it alone is not enough to make an interesting option of trying and to make the severe consequences of bankruptcy reasonable and less discouraging. What is the government going to do about this? Since small and medium-sized enterprises create the most jobs and the government programme all have a good basis for employment growth, care should be taken to ensure that entrepreneurship is actually an interesting option and the consequences of failure are not disproportionate. Mr President! The Government can be thanked for its ambitious climate policy and programme. However, it must be borne in mind that all legislative measures relating to it concern citizens, businesses and communities. They need to make changes in line with government policies, make investments that not everyone can necessarily afford. I am sure that everyone will want to contribute as much as possible to combating climate change, and I therefore hope that the government will have the wisdom to implement these policies. The second thing I want to thank the government for is investing in child protection. Children’s rights and well - being must be safeguarded, and they must receive the support and assistance they need. The availability of shelters and investing in child welfare after-care are important issues. I heartily hope that these reforms will be carried out, but I express my deep concern that the Government Programme does not seem to offer credible means of financing these reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u334	Mr President! Why should I vote? People vote to get their own ideas into decision-making. Has that happened? The second and third largest parties in the parliamentary elections are not now where they should be. The party that has been defeated by the election is now sitting in the government, that is, a party to which the people have not given confidence. Once this government has been formed, we have turned our backs on democracy, which I find extremely regrettable. The fallen representatives of the same party now become state secretaries through the good brother system, among other things, money is burning. I mean, this shit is as dirty as it can be. Nevertheless, the Government Programme on the slope is broadly moderate in terms of objectives. The only problem with that is how to achieve all these objectives. Beautiful things are said on the side, but there is no realism. One representative said that the Rinte government's program is the best ever. But to whom? At least not for the Finns, but for the Africans. I understand that there is no money for everyone, but I do not understand why the interests of Finns do not come first. In yesterday's group speeches, the representatives of the government parties did not say much about the economy. What's this about? This reflects the fact that this barrel of hopes in the Government Programme rests on unrealistic economic growth and employment growth. Unfortunately, nothing, no matter how good the objectives are, will sign the government's forecasts. The 2% economic growth desired by the Rinne government is not based on anything. The long-term forecast published yesterday is that the economy will grow at an annual rate of about 1.2%. What is the so-called Plan B, Prime Minister Rinne, if and when there is no economic growth and the employment rate does not rise to the famous 75%? I'd like to know that, too. The Government Programme is already taxing Finns enough, and with fear I expect what will happen in the future if the goals are not met. Mr President! State property shall not or may not be sold. However, if, for any reason, state property must be sold, no return on the assets sold should be sent to Africa at least. Nevertheless, the government is selling state property for EUR 3 billion. What does the government spend the money on? Traffic connections? Skills or repairs? No, the government's using these for consumption. It's a very expensive price to pay for election promises. What do we do when the money's spent? Shall we sell more, or shall we begin a reckless borrowing? Mr President! Asylum policy is absolutely unacceptable in the government's proposal. How can it be that illegally — note? illegally —should the government act as a laissez-passer? For example, Iraq or Somalia can safely come to Finland without any fear that Ko. people would be returned. If, for some reason, someone were to be returned, the representative of the current government party will probably try to prevent this. We've seen this before. In addition, Finland’s loose immigration policy is further relaxed in the Government’s proposal. As I mentioned earlier, the interests of Finns should always come first. Why is this not the case? The billions of people who move at the expense of immigration would do much to improve the situation of the general population. Mr President! Marking in the Government Programme: ‘Restricting the over-negotiation status of reserve stores through legislative measures,other than What the hell is going on? Does this mean that the government will decide what to sell? There has been talk in the public domain of this entry even meaning the removal of cheap store brands. When the government drums up the fact that it reduces inequality, I can tell you with several years of experience in the trade sector that extremely many buy these very cheaper products. Is it the government’s intention that a person no longer be able to afford food? I really hope that I am completely wrong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u335	Mr President! First of all, I would not like to thank the new Finnish Government for the Government Programme, but rather for the new operating culture. I have a relatively long career as a parliamentarian, and I have seen these government programme debates in Parliament before. I am totally dismayed that the government has taken this parliamentary debate so seriously. You are here, not only as an individual minister, but as a group. This tells us of a new type of dialogue between Parliament and the government, and thank you, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u338	Madam President! Of course, this hall is full of skilled rhetoricians. There has been talk here of intellectual conversation and such dishonest conversation. Although I am now a member of the Government Party, it must of course be said that times vary and different policies are needed in different times. Fortunately, this government is now able to make a new policy, thanks to the good policy that the previous government did. So even though I myself studied rhetoric when I was studying, it must be remembered that times have been different. Mr President! Finland is part of an international world order in which multilateralism and rule-basedness are the best guarantee for the success of our country. The better we are networked, the better for Finland and Finns. Better known, more effective, more trusted — these are good guidelines for our country's long-term foreign policy. During Finland's EU programme period, there is an opportunity to influence not only EU policy but also citizens' views on the Union and its potential. However, there is a realistic fear that the EU Presidency will remain remote to the citizens. All informal ministerial meetings have been decided to concentrate on Helsinki. The Prime Minister has spoken warmly in favour of the informal ministerial meetings of the Finnish EU-PJ period being held elsewhere than in the capital. At the same time, we could present our beautiful country, not just for our beautiful capital. Money is not an obstacle, logistics is not an obstacle, and will should not be an obstacle. I also know from my own experience that it is quite possible to organise such a meeting in Central Finland, for example. For example, an informal meeting of agriculture and forestry ministers would be natural to organise agriculture and forestry in the capital of living Central Finland in Jyväskylä. Mr President! “Finland is larger than the world ” — such foreign policy is A ‘greater world’ means nosum-of-game where the world’s We live on exports, and that is how we must also promote through a wide and diverse network of representations. It is also good to remember that we are best placed to influence global refugee, climate and resource issues by acting in a credible manner in the international arena as well. It is clear that in the future, Finland will have to pursue the status of a changing member of the UN Security Council again successfully, promoting shared Nordic values and ideals. Mr President! Finland must have a stronger presence in West Africa. Currently, the Abuja Embassy in Nigeria is the only Finnish diplomatic mission in the region. In the French-speaking sub-Saharan Africa, Finland has no representation. Finland should open a delegation in Abidjan to the French-speaking Ivory Coast. Abidjan is one of the economic centres of West Africa and is the headquarters of the African Development Bank. There, many opportunities await Finnish companies. These will also bring much-needed euros to respond to domestic challenges. In Ghana, a neighbouring country of Côte d'Ivoire, the economy is also growing favourably, and Accra is an important regional economic centre. Finland's presence in Ghana should also be stronger. Madam President! The instability in the Sahel region is and will have significant spillover effects on Europe. Finland should be represented in the region so that we can be more involved in its consolidation efforts. Mali is a key piece of everything. Finland should have a representation in Bamako, the capital, like Sweden, Denmark and Norway. Perhaps a few words about Europe as well. With the opening up of Uzbekistan, a delegation in Tashkent should be prepared. Finland must be among the positive engines to support good development, i.e. to promote democracy and the rule of law and to eradicate the roots of radicalisation. At the same time, we would have our own eyes and ears in Central Asia, whose natural resources, growing geopolitical importance and proximity to Afghanistan are sufficient to justify the opening of the delegation. Mr President! I know this listing won't happen overnight. I also know that this is quite extensive. I would still like to ask Foreign Minister Haavisto: what opportunities and priorities do you see for Finland in the world, and where do you think Finland should increase its impact and visibility? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u339	Madam President! We are still working on this programme of government, and unfortunately it has happened quite a number of times that things are being set against each other here. In my own example, I shall now highlight the confrontation between the environment and industry. We already have a very clean industry in Finland, and we have all agreed on that in this Chamber. Finnish industry is state-of-the-art, or old technology can at least produce a top result and the pure steam or smoke from the pipe. This is what we have achieved because legislation has created frameworks in which emissions must remain. Secondly, this has also been influenced by the behaviour of consumers. Consumers want products to be produced in accordance with working conditions, with respect for safety and the environment. That is why industry has also had to change direction because of various laws, but also because of customer requirements. We therefore have cleantech expertise, which is only planned in other parts of the world. We have a steel industry that is investing more and more in emission-free production. Special steel products can be made from scrap iron. The end product is smart steel with very different characteristics: workability, cold resistance, hardness, flexibility, heat resistance and drag resistance. The side streams of the paper mill can be turned into heating energy or even biofuel. The pulp can be made of pots, cups, clothes, packaging material, paper or liquid packaging. A lot of things can be built out of wood. For example, the largest wooden school in Finland is currently rising to Imatra. The University of Lappeenranta can extract food protein or fuel from the air. Finland manufactures water cleaners around the world, pumps for mines, civil engineering and other sites. We know how to work steel with any type of components for previous purposes — steel made from scrap that can be used over and over again — and all of these are environmental works. That is why we should not put the environment and industry against each other, but boldly take them side by side towards a cleaner tomorrow, while at the same time increasing jobs. Changing working life is also an opportunity. We are therefore involved in the change for a cleaner Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u340	Madam President! I'll continue my speech during the day. In the Ministry of Finance’s publication “Prevention of more problems, less correction? ‘2013/11 is stated:‘The prevention of problems faced by children and young people in the light of international researchisalmostresultable andsupportable’. Yet it is not enough to invest in prevention. Finnish law provides protection against bullying at school, but there are shortcomings in the practical implementation of the law. Finland no longer needs any people who have been disabled by bullying at school. The costs of these will be borne in the future by all of us. Mr President! Fewer than ten thousand veterans are still among senior citizens. I have met them regularly over the last few years, and it has always come to light that many of them have a desire for rehabilitation and other meaningful activities, but there is not enough money available for them. It would be important for the government to be able to listen and treat veterans as individuals and to be involved in supporting them in exactly what would make sense for them. Even if this hall were full of representatives, none of us would be sitting here without the contributions of the veterans, but it seems to be very easy to forget. In their last years of life, they have earned all the necessary support they can receive. Mr President! I regularly meet carers in my work, and their message to the government has been quite clear: Carers save a huge amount of government money in society. The guidelines for informal care should be harmonised and the fees should be such that they actually leave money for compulsory needs and support the hard work that is often done around the clock. Mr President! ME/CFS is a poorly known but fairly common disability disease, which affects at least ten thousand people in Finland, with an annual cost to the state of around EUR 200 to 300 million. For the first time half a century ago, the disease was included in the ICD classification under neurological conditions, where it remains under the code G93.3. There is currently an international consensus that this is an independent disease that needs to be investigated and treated. Duodecim has been allocated EUR 200000 in December to prepare ME/CFS management recommendations, and work on them is starting this autumn. An official ME/CFS working group will be set up in the Parliament in the next few days. Despite these advances, the rights of patients are flagrantly trampled on in Finland. Even known diseases of patients can be left untreated because of stigma or attitudes. Treatment to relieve symptoms and life support may not be given. Care relationships in the public sector can be completely broken. Patients are often deprived of sickness-based social security, and equality is not achieved. I hope that the government will undertake to defend the rights of patients with ME/CFS and to ensure that the statement in the Government Programme on the conditions for access to benefits and the commitment of benefits to functional capacity is also taken into account in the case of patients with ME/CFS. Mr President! In the current situation, the state's treasury could be increased by removing subsidies worth tens and tens of millions of euros for large companies, which, however, are distributed in dividends to owners, or, alternatively, more small companies could be supported, with huge potential. For example, in the last few days news has been given about a company that has developed a way to make concrete from waste, and about technology where pulped flue-gases could be used to produce fuel for the whole of Finland. Such breakthroughs could play an important role in creating new jobs in Finland. Mr President! The success of the Government Programme can only be measured when it is clear how the goals, promises and records set out therein will be put into practice. In the meantime, anyone can say anything. In the end, however, it is only the actions that determine. Now, if ever the government had the opportunity to show that instead of acting alone, it is also listening to the advice of the opposition. I believe that together we will be able to make the best decisions for the benefit of people living in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u342	Mr President! The strong rise in electricity distribution charges has rightly spoken to Finns for a few years now. The rise in prices has increased the cost of living. This development is justified by the improvement of security of supply required by the law. The increase in distribution charges has certainly been perceived unfairly also because electricity networks are a monopoly. They are a monopoly not only by law but also by nature. In other words, even if electricity networks were liberalised, there would be no competition. A natural monopoly is inherently personal to money and subject to cost-effectiveness. Regardless of its owner, it needs sensible and rigorous public regulation and control. Current Prime Minister Rinne and President of the Centre In the run-up to the parliamentary elections, Sipilä insisted that all electricity networks should be transferred to the public as a response to the rise in prices. Now that you read the government programme, you can say that in this case it was probably a bluff, as in so many other electoral promises made by the government parties. Did the realism of the economy come into play and the billions needed to buy back the electricity grids were not found, at least not after the decision was made to cover current expenditure by selling state property? Mr President! The entry in the Government Programme concerning the reduction of electricity distribution charges must in itself be supported and sensible. In order to curb the increase in distribution charges, it is planned to extend the period of compensation of sub-productions of the electricity system operator, i.e. the reform proposed by the coalition before the elections. This would be a rationalisation because it would even the pressure to increase distribution fees beyond the current four-year control period. The necessary amendment of the law can be made quickly. I am therefore waiting for urgent measures from Minister Kulmun to bring about this change to the law. In addition, the Government Programme has stated that the Government intends to develop alternative ways of ensuring security of electricity supply, particularly in sparsely populated areas. It's very important. It is now the case that even the current law does not oblige land archery in order to improve security of supply. The problem is that network operators may have incentives to land-cover even when there are more cost-effective ways for customers to organise the quality required by the law. I therefore urge you, Mr Kulmun, to pay close attention to this matter. Carbon neutrality is a central objective of the Government Programme. Hopefully, the government will make a sensible policy so that the burden on people and businesses in reducing emissions will not be excessive. Bringing production to lower emission standards or unsustainable forest management would increase global emissions and reduce Finnish jobs. The Government seems to understand the importance of EU emissions trading and intends to contribute to the better functioning of emissions trading. A sensible climate policy is always at least EU-wide, preferably international. The Government Programme includes a recording of the floor price of the allowance. I wonder a little about the fact that the government is ready for the floor price in the Nordic countries. Such a separate territorial solution is not a rational policy. If the floor price of the allowance is to be set, it should be EU-wide. Above all, I warn the government against resorting to national individual solutions and soloism in climate matters. The overlapping instruments confuse and pile up an unreasonable burden. Finally, I would like to pay particular tribute to the government for the entry into force of the so-called carbon duty. After all, the idea of carbon duty is to make products produced outside the EU pay for their emissions as much as those produced in the EU. The Finnish Presidency of the European Union is at the door. Now the government has a point of view in climate policy. We Finns cannot accept free travel of Chinese products in the internal market. Take the carbon tariff to the EU tables and secure the competitive conditions for Finnish products. The climate will thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u343	Madam President! An important debate has been held here today on urban policy. In particular, the Government Programme identifies the metropolitan area and large cities as strategically important areas of growth and sustainable development for the whole country. In 2013, 70 per cent of the Finnish population lived in cities and their spending limits. My own home town, Espoo, grew last year by over 4,500 people. As urbanisation continues, cities play a key role in promoting sustainable growth and employment, combating climate change and preventing exclusion. In solving these sustainability challenges, we need close cooperation and partnership between cities and the state. Madam President! It is great that cities in both Finland and the world have taken up the challenge of combating sustainable development and the climate crisis. Cities have a race, but with a serious mind, set ambitious climate targets and are determined to aim for them with broad participation of companies, other partners and residents. New innovations and their introduction are needed, and cities act as good development platforms for this. The Government Programme supports sustainable urban development. The MAL agreements build carbon-neutral urban areas and increase the share of sustainable mobility. The MAL agreements combat segregation and homelessness and promote the diversity of housing production in the regions. The State will ensure sufficient investment in public transport investment. This is done in good cooperation with cities. Madam President! The Government Programme outlines that the social welfare reform will examine a separate solution for Uusimaa, the Helsinki Metropolitan Area or the Helsinki region in cooperation with the municipalities and cities of the region by the end of this year. It is important to launch this work without delay and to seek a solution in good cooperation that is also in accordance with the Constitution. During the day, Mr Ikonen wondered how the situation and financing of other major cities would be identified in the social reform. It is also important to take this into account in the preparation of the reform. The vitality and investment capacity of growth cities must be ensured so that they can grow sustainably and provide the growing number of people with the services they need, including after the social welfare reform: schools, day-care centres, sports and cultural services. Madam President! Important speeches have also been made about indoor air problems in public buildings, especially schools and kindergartens. The resolution of indoor air problems and the improvement of the situation of the people affected have been taken seriously in the Government Programme. Repairing indoor schools and kindergartens is expensive, especially in growth cities, where new schools and day-care centres are needed in addition to repairing the old ones — and above all, in addition to walls, a sufficient number of teachers and other staff are needed to ensure the learning of each child and young person. Madam President! Sustainable growth of cities and the strengthening of vitality are essential for the success of our country as a whole. It's not out of any other area. Inclusive and knowledgeable carbon-neutral Finland, where no one is excluded, will be built together with cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u344	Madam President! The new government is going to bring back something that should have been buried deep in the history to which it belongs, and it is precisely the compulsory Swedish in the matriculation exams so that every high school student must write it. I've been getting so many messages from young people, especially guys who are really worried about this. They know, many of them, that they do not need Swedish, and they have made choices according to it, and now suddenly the government is standing in the way of this kind of obstacle for these young guys and why not for the girls. I say that this new government is doing the right thing in that it wants to prevent the exclusion of young people, to invest in education, but this decision that the compulsory Swedish should be introduced into the matriculation examination sucks. This will be a trap, and I cannot understand how parties like this look to the future — at least you thus advertise yourselves, for example, the Greens and the Left Alliance — can allow such a trap that the RKP has driven through to that government program, the same center that should defend the whole of Finland and should understand that there really is no need for the Swedish language in all of Finland. I'm just gonna read a few messages about what I've been getting from the young guys. For example, one writes in this way: ‘At the time of writings, the majority of people already know what they want to do. Even when going to high school in August, it feels like bullying Finnish-speaking people. Here's what's gonna happen again. RKP, I wonder if there was a 7 per cent support, and make all Finnish-speaking high school students write Swedish. Why can the Swedish People's Party not let us out of this torment and give us its freedom of choice from the mainstream languages of the world?’ Well, then another message. By the way, these guys are listening to this live broadcast. I asked them to let me read these. ‘Morjes,I started reading in autumn and it would appear that the Swedes are being forced to write. Is there a transitional period, or will it come into direct practice? It's not much of a thing when during primary school, the teachers of eight and nine-class Swedish were not very qualified. Both of them lacked the qualifications of a Swedish teacher, among other things. The Swedish national experiment gave me a huge grade, four and a half. There were no qualified teachers in the municipality of Inari, and Swedish is used here as much as Sami in Peru. The average was 8.3, I get into high school, but I don’t necessarily get out except by interrupting if this kind of shit is put over the people.” Then there is another message: ‘Now that this new government and government programme was published, at the age of 17, I had a high school in the female eye of a student to force me to I have not invested in Swedish at all, because I have designed my postgraduate studies and there is no need for language. Now comes a place where I should then write a subject that I haven't put any effort into just so that my search points will collapse considerably. Frankly, it pisses me off. It's shocking. I want to be there for you to repeal this decision.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u349	No matter what you quote, you don't swear here in the can.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u350	Mr President! I will continue a little further on these investments in the future of the government, but before that I cannot help commenting on Mr Kiljune's parables here when he went through the previous government's economic programme and the related measures. However, I would like to remind you that in 2014, the state accounts showed a deficit of EUR 6 billion — EUR 6 billion. The situation from which the previous government went to save this country is quite different from where we are at the moment, but I think it is honest to say it. Let's stick to the facts and compare the things that are related. Madam President! These future investments and related problems: I said earlier in my speech that I believe that the sale of assets is justified in the event of funds being allocated to support growth and employment in the future, but, instead, there is no justification for selling state property as an item in the budget. This is exactly what the government intends to do now, and I assume that the government has stated in the negotiations that permanent expenditure can be increased by EUR 1.2 billion, and that, in addition to that, the parties have had quite a lot of other requests, which they have had to make, but which have not again been able to fit into the spending limits, which have then come to the conclusion that the state's assets will be put into meat with this EUR 3 billion, so that these expenditure promises can be financed on a fixed-term basis, and I do not think that this is justified or wise in any case. It must also be noted that the previous government also used sales revenue to finance these so-called key projects, but the fundamental difference between this government's path and the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sipilä is that their main projects were intended to bring about a permanent change in support of which there was a desire to use fixed-term funding, and that is something that I understand much better than the way in which the current government has chosen. As I said, in accordance with the proposal that has been made, this money is scattered to over 100 destinations without any consideration being given to how these funds are to be used. I am throwing the ball at the government now that we have ministers in place, that you should reconsider this list of future investments and, for example, capitalise universities with the funds you are now putting in the form of a token of ordinary government spending. Capitalise on universities and universities of applied sciences, through which our universities will grow their economic independence, their strength will grow, we will move towards the situation in Western Europe and also, most importantly, our universities will become more independent of the economic cycle, when we know that in the future, however, spending pressures will increase with our ageing and we will still have to take care of our elderly people and ensure that they receive good care. However, the challenges will be considerable in the future. Take a catch here, ladies and gentlemen, and rediscover this investment list and make investments that will genuinely affect the future, which will then pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u352	Mr President! I will continue my speech on that increase in compulsory school age. But before that: In general terms, in terms of education and training, we can also be grateful for the fact that some of the objectives are being built on last year’s work, such as investment in R & D spending, which in the last year was increased to EUR112 million,and the university’s2030 vision. But I am deeply puzzled at the intentions to return to forced Swedish and increase the compulsory age. Indeed, in the last 15 years far too many people have been excluded. Far too many young people are excluded or excluded from our society. A study carried out in 2017 reported that 10 per cent of young people who completed their comprehensive school do not have sufficient literacy or ability to complete further studies. Indeed, it is generally thought that exclusion is the reason for exclusion from education. In the autumn of 2017, the youth survey conducted a first survey on the so-called NEET youth — young people who are outside education and workshops, for example, everything else — and interviewed them specifically and asked them what are the reasons for exclusion. And they told us three main reasons: lack of friends, mental health problems and discrimination. Far away, not even in the top ten, there was a lack of education and a lack of work. In other words, it is precisely in the early years and even more strongly in basic education that we should invest in. I see no reason why a student — his own daughter is just going to the third grade — would enter the third grade without any literacy or math skills. You don't learn them in the fifth and sixth grade, because then you have to have the basic skills to keep up. During the last period, the desire to facilitate the daily lives of a secondary student was recognised and investments were made in student support for a high-school student and a student in vocational training, under the leadership of the Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, for example, who will now enter into force on August 1st. We increased the number of study grant months for a high school student from nine months to ten months, because in upper secondary school you usually study ten months. We removed the effects of parents’ incomes: if a young person is studying in another place and lives on his own, the parents’ incomes will no longer affect and reduce or even abolish student support. The last thing we did, thanks to Minister Terho's initiative, educational material support, is close to EUR 50 per month, about EUR 450 per year, which, for example, makes three years for a lu-kio student or a secondary student almost EUR 1500 in a family with incomes below EUR 41400, i.e. in a family with low incomes, children, young people, going to secondary school and need that funding. Is this the case that an expensive increase in compulsory education age, estimated at more than EUR 100 million to be closer to EUR 150 million, is draining investments from primary and other education, such as regionally from the University of Oulu and the University of Applied Sciences? Over party boundaries, we have prepared separate funding for the University of Oulu, whose basic funding has fallen behind over the last ten years by more than 20 per cent of other universities. Last year, this R & D funding was actually increased by EUR 112 million, which became a small slice of Oulu. But raising basic funding needs separate funding. In general, the funding of investments is indeed based on the desire for this increase in employment. I have already put forward five proposals on which the government could assess them. In addition to the rise in employment, the financing is based on increases in working taxes and the sale of state assets. It's an untenable road and a solution. Who's gonna pay for it? They are paid for by ordinary Finnish people who work: small entrepreneurs, and especially those who work for the future, the so-called small age groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u353	Madam Speaker! Perhaps I was unnecessarily respectful of the President-in-Office's recommendation for speeches of less than 5 minutes, because it was a speech that was not reserved in advance, so I could logically have completed it. But perhaps from the point of view of this debate it might have been a good thing to have had this interruption, because Mr Könttä had an immediate need to say that it had a lot of rhetorical power and that the facts speak. In my own speech, I listed the starting points of the previous government programme in how elderly people are treated in Finland. They were facts about the program itself. Mr Marttinen said, and Mr Könttä said at the same time, that the economic conditions are very different and that the efforts and objectives of its government programme must be proportionate to that situation. I admit that four years ago the economic situation in Finland was different from today. My question, of course, is: how do different government programmes treat different population groups? I can say that the efforts made by the previous government programme in that sense that the cutting lists are going through — which I went through — by far the most strain on older people. That was the starting point. That's what I was comparing. I understand these differences. Now we have a government of change. Now we're looking for a change. Let's see how the Rinte government programme differs from the previous one, which I have just listed to the elderly in paragraph 11. These are the records of the Rinte government program now in turn: 1) Develop a cross-administrative age programme. 2) The units of 24-hour care provide for the minimum size of the care staff, this famous 0.7. 3) In addition to day-to-day care, the resources and quality of home care are strengthened. 4) Targeted welfare checks will be carried out, particularly for retired persons. — By the way, it has a senior counselling system built inside the government programme. ( 5) In the event of an emergency, access to treatment is guaranteed within a week. 6) Establishment of an Ombudsman for the Ombudsman for the Elderly. These are all significant improvements in the service structure, which are precisely what the elderly in Finland will benefit from, and it confirms the government’s value base for giving space to valuable ageing and respecting older people. They have the right to the same basic living conditions in Finland as all other Finnish citizens. Age-friendly Government Programme for Service Structures and Services for Positioning. What about the question of livelihood? It is the big question I referred to when I said that pensioners are the only group of income recipients in Finland that is legally impoverished, thanks to the folded index. There is a clear entry in the Government Programme: ‘In particular, the poverty and integration of pensioners and families with children will be reduced The aim is to ensure that all Finns’ incomes are developed and distributed evenly.’ A very, very clear record of the government's efforts not only to reduce pensioner poverty but also to guarantee the survival of pensioners' living standards and to reduce inequalities. Now the question is: how is this to be done? So this is a record, the objective of the programme, but how will it be implemented? It has two clear objectives, which are very important: 1) As a first step, monthly pensions of less than EUR 1000 will be increased by a net level of EUR 50. So it is a question of raising national pensions in such a way that the benefits of income support and housing allowance do not deteriorate. This immediately improves the pension provision of some 300,000 of the lowest-income pensioners. We know that the price tag in the state budget is about EUR 183 million. That's what it costs, and that's what the government is prepared to do. 2) As a second programmed objective in terms of income, perhaps it is the most important record, i.e. also the actual old-age pension. It must therefore be remembered that the national pension and guarantee pension are no longer old-age pensions in Finland today, but the security of basic income, and in fact 75% of those receiving full national pension are incapacitated people. They are people of working age who are on disability pension. Only 25 per cent of those receiving full national pension, i.e. full guarantee pension, are over 65-year-olds. It must now be recognised that, through the abolition of the base of the 95 national pensions, the national pension is no longer our old-age pension, but it is an occupational pension. So, what does the government program record on occupational pensions? The Board of Directors is ready to improve the actual old-age pension, i.e. earnings-related pension, beyond the normal index check. This is a very important point. The Government Programme records the following: ‘A three-pronged report will be launched on howto improve the status of the least-favoured persons in the occupational So this is a direct quote from the Government Programme. It therefore seeks ways of raising occupational pensions below EUR 1400 by a net amount of EUR 100. By the way, the objective is very ambitious. For the first time, it opens the way to assess the change needs of the employment pension index, i.e. the folded index. [President : Time! ] Chairman! Finally, there is a problem here, a technical problem and there may also be a constitutional one. How, then, can the increase be made to pensions below EUR 1400? Of course, one option would be to increase the amount of EUR 100 for all pensions. Its price tag is EUR 1.5 billion. That would mean that an index check would not be necessary, and at the turn of last year it had a price tag of 400 million. So it is now a question of how the EUR 1 billion will be financed. Over the past 20 years, employment pension funds have grown by an average of EUR 8 billion. It would cost EUR 1 billion to give EUR 100 to all old-age pensioners receiving an occupational pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u354	Mr Kiljunen, I would like to point out that these restrictions on speech are jointly agreed. They are recommendations, but when all representatives follow them, we play with the same rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u355	Mr President! Is the recommendation now five minutes? The matter that has been put in the ear and in the eyes of the debate is the complaint of every other representative of the Finns on the ground that the wrong party or false parties have entered the government. This is, in a way, particularly directed towards the Central Party, because it has been said here in the past that both the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens did well in the elections. I myself have been thinking about it when I was a negotiator in the working group on knowledge—civilization—innovation in the Government Programme negotiations, that what would have happened in the negotiations if the Finns of Finland had been involved? The Central Party, which also represents this kind of popular movement and is the whole of Finland, has had a lot of good cooperation over the decades and now later also with the Greens. I have the impression that these key educational policy objectives and issues, which are at the heart of Finnish society as a whole and for the future — related to the development of early childhood education, the rehabilitation of pre-school education, the development of comprehensive school, the extension and extension of compulsory education — would have been strongly opposed by the Finns of Peru. I don't know if my esteemed representatives are the sons of the best Finns in the world. Mr. Savio and Mr. Koponen may not represent such a view, which seems to prevail in the Finns of Peru, that one does not want to see in politics really like two things spoken in the mouth of the Finns of Peruvian origin: immigration and footband. After that, there's a long way to go about what's interesting. I say this quite arrogantly in that way that the Finns themselves have now driven themselves in a certain way into the exclusion and opposition in this way with a very narrow policy. For example, for me, raising the compulsory school age and the second level free of charge is a historical objective comparable to that of comprehensive school reform. When the background is what has already been said here that we had a million jobs in Finland 20 years ago, where we were able to manage on the basis of the knowledge of comprehensive school, they have now contracted to about 200,000, and are becoming increasingly scarce and scarce. We need to see the resources young people have and get them involved in education and a secondary degree. It is not a single activity that is sufficient, but requires the development of a strong, strong comprehensive school, including early childhood education and then all preparatory education on top of it, tailored study paths for as many people as possible. That is why this is an important question. Mr President! That is where Mr Kimmo Kiljunen went through this equally important issue of injustice, which the government is now solving, very well in relation to pensioner poverty, the livelihood of pensioners. Here in Parliament, a few months ago in particular, there has been almost a mockery — perhaps too strong a word — or it has not been seen that we actually have between 300,000 and 400,000 pensioners who receive a pension of about EUR 1 000, some even under it. I think it is a moral and ethical question that this is where the government is now, and this is not the May Day of the Ringe. I myself have been making a decision at the Demari Assembly on this matter. So it leaves there, and that is why it is such an important question for us, including this correction of the status of those receiving a small pension in this connection along the path that Mrs Kiljunen pointed out in her own speech. All right, five and a half minutes, please, Speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u356	The name was mentioned. Congressman Savio, please, one minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u357	Mr President! Indeed, I have to say here that I said in my own speech, which I thought earlier, that I am surprised that the second and third largest party was then excluded from the negotiations. I have tried to find in history whether this has ever happened in Finnish political activity before. At least I did not find the example of leaving the second and third largest party out of the government negotiations, especially at the stage of the government process, which is quite exceptional. With regard to Mr Gustafsson's question about what the Finns of Finland would have done in the field of education, we have been calling for a long time, including in our alternative budget last autumn, a very strong increase in local education in vocational education and a representative. Mäenpää has previously brought it up strongly in this Chamber debate. The wide coverage of the upper secondary school network has also been strong in our hearts, and of course the wide accessibility of vocational institutions and the entire educational network throughout the country. We believe that these are very important issues. Under no circumstances should they be ignored under this government either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u359	The reply has been requested by Minister Ohio. — Response, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u360	Mr President! This is where Mr Ronkainen raised the issue of sexual violence, and that is a good thing because the government wants to reject it too. The Government Programme contains a number of important entries, such as: ‘The government pays particular attention to the reduction of personal integrity, and of crimes against life and health,in particular crimes against the child and violence in close relationships. “ The legislation on rape is also being reformed on the basis of lack of consent, and many others. I personally would like to thank everyone in this Chamber now and in the past for a constructive debate, for good ideas and I hope that we will continue from now on. There will certainly be debate on many things, but I can see that there are a lot of things on which we also agree. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u361	And Minister Mikkonen, reply, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u362	Mr President! I wish I could speak a little longer when there are more questions here, and I saw that Mr. Mäenpää... [First Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen : Let's agree that3minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u365	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u366	Mr President! I will start with the same theme that the Minister for Climate and the Environment spoke about. In this context, there are 200 million for future investment in development cooperation, and then here the text refers to different types of investment. On pages 60 to 61 it is stated that ‘The fight against climate finance must be guided by the adaptation Financing in the form of loans for investments will continue, in particular, to strengthen climate finance. “And then again:“Ensurefinnfund operating conditions and continue to usefinancialinvestments in development finance. “ It is further stated that:‘Relevate the funding of the UN organisations and There are quite a number of ways to go about these wishes, and for the first time in itself this kind of bigger pot has already been agreed; it has already been possible to make some of them as separate solutions, for example, for this kind of international climate fund or for development banks funds, through which it is hoped to obtain these desired results. My encouragement to the government is mainly that it pays with a very open mind to see where the input-output ratio is the most advantageous. It is not necessarily the first coat hanger that may have been financed in the past, but there are now many ways in the world to leverage this public investment or gift money so that we can get more than ten times private funding on top and thus make these climate and development effects as effective as possible. I would urge you to look in particular at these climate and development funds, which have emerged in the context of the development banks, which are also the regional development funds, in which this second aspect, which the Minister has just referred to, is that this Finnish technology can also be developed and exported to the world. With a relatively small amount of investment stakes, it is possible to get a foot in the doorway and then to influence the larger channels that take place, for example, in the use of the EU, the world's largest development fund, the money, and then, for example, in the African or developing countries of European big banks and financial institutions, and when we are involved in these same organisations, there is always opportunities for cooperation in terms of this Finnish work and exports. Secondly, following on from the speeches made by representatives Kimmo Kiljunen and Gustafsson, this pension solution for EUR 1000 to EUR 1400 for occupational pensions is groundbreaking. Such a mention or attempt has never been dared to be made before, and it compares with solidarity solutions such as those that have been made in Finland, especially when the earnings-related pension scheme entered into force in the early 60s. For these long-time employees whose work had not been paid a penny to pension funds, however, such a kind of fair as an opening pension, if that work during the new pension scheme was, however, to some extent. It was a very brisk subvention of the money of employees, contributors to occupational pensions, and transferred to the benefit of older generations who had not increased their earnings-related pension throughout their working lives. And a somewhat similar solution was found in the German pension system: when the Federal Republic of Germany joined the regions of East Germany, it was not only then that these massive tax subsidies were made, but also on the side of the pension systems that were supported, in nominal terms, those very small pensioners who, however, had been working for a long time. It is as if solidarity has been shared out from that accumulated pension reserve to these long-term hard-working but low-retirement pensioners. In my opinion, we must now strongly appeal to the social partners not to engage in four- limb braking, but, with an open mind, to seek a fair solution to reduce and even eliminate pension poverty in Finland, and also to ensure a fairer distribution of income among the retired population.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u367	Madam President! I believe that the question of why the centre left after the election defeat is perfectly understandable and legitimate. I'm not surprised they ask and wonder. As a party, we did not seek a government, and we said it loudly and publicly that we are heading for the opposition. We are now in the government, therefore, as has already been well said, that the SDP did not reach agreement with the Finns of Finland or with the Coalition Party on the direction of policy in the years to come. It should also be noted that the centre is the fourth largest party in our country and more than 420,000 Finns trusted the centre — over 420,000 Finns. The party's most important task is to influence the development of society and the daily lives of people. It is also worth asking whether it is a better place to influence, the opposition or the government, where we, as a party and as representatives of the people, can influence matters that are important to our voters and Finns. If we had only sought our own interests as a party and as parliamentarians, we might have preferred to remain in the opposition. Now we are taking responsibility for the whole of Finland, because the matter of the country takes precedence over everything else in politics. We had our threshold issues, which are fully taken into account in the Government Programme. We are pleased with the programme and we believe that with this composition, this government, we can work together to build Finland's well-being. I hope that there will also be good cooperation with the opposition. We are ready to cooperate and we look forward to it. I would like to say that Mr Koponen raised very important points. I would like to highlight the situation of veterans and informal care in particular. The Government Programme states that the number of veterans and war ombudsmen in our wars will be reduced, and it is also said that with the aging, the need for support for them and their loved ones will increase. It promises that the support and services of veterans of our wars will be secured and that the services will be delivered in quality throughout our country. There are a lot of concrete ways of improving the situation and the situation of the elderly in the Government Programme. These improvements in the situation of the elderly, of course, will also help veterans of our wars and those who are old people. Madam President! Many things become more understandable and intimate if you have your own personal experience. My grandfather served as a family nurse over the past few years, and he is a veteran who currently lives happily in a 24-hour service home for the elderly. In this government programme there are indeed many good decisions in relation to informal care and elderly services. Among other things, they promise to set up an Ombudsman for the Elderly and an office with a budget of half a million. It states that targeted welfare checks will be carried out for the elderly and their service advice will be developed. Provision is also made for a minimum binding measurement of care staff, 0.7, in 24-hour care units and EUR 70 million is reserved for them. Then they promise to develop informal care and home care resources by EUR 45 million. Important, important improvements in elderly services. Mr Vestman also raised an important point. He was talking about electricity transfer prices. It is quite true that they must be made sense and made sense. At one time, electricity networks were released from the control responsibilities of society and the electricity networks of the state, the main shareholder, Fortum, were sold mainly to Caruna, a foreign-owned company. We are not going to increase the taxation of electricity now in the Government Programme, and it is quite true that we must find ways together to secure affordable electricity throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u368	Madam President! Representative S.H.I.E.L.L.D. here a few speeches ago proved with merit how crime has grown in Finland and the police are starving under their workload. Among other things, he told us that each one of us may have a very small amount of trouble or accidentally have to deal with brutal professional crime. All you have to do is go to that train station and see what kind of drug trade there is. Police organisations have announced that the number of police officers should be increased to 7850 in the next few years, so that the police can cope with the tasks they now have. This was the commitment of many parties before the elections, in particular the coalition has called for this number, 7850 policemen. I understand that there are also parties in the government that were committed to this number before the elections, but now that we are looking at the government programme, what has happened? The number has halved, not going anywhere near the need to increase the number of police posts. If the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, was here now — he has already left — I would have liked to ask him if your message to the police for the next four years is really that you should try to survive, that is all the 300 that the government now promises is what you should be content with. Why don't you take the same effort, my dear government, put this matter in order and raise the number of police officers to the minimum required? There's a lot of work to be done in that sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u369	Madam President! First of all, Mr Savilo, referring to the speech made earlier by Mr Gustafsson. I just have to ask you this way, when you say that this government decision, which has been taken, runs counter to the rules of representative democracy: it is very difficult for me to understand how it is possible for you to believe that this government would not follow the political will expressed by the people in elections in a situation where we have 117 representatives of 200 behind this government. We'll see about that when this government program vote is held here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u372	Mr President! I was already dissolving from this Parliament, but then I overheard Congressman Gustafsson talking about that TV in my room.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u375	Congressman Gustafsson, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u376	It's very brief. Representative Mäenpää, I was here yesterday when you talked about this wind power issue, and I listened to it with great interest, and I noticed that you have expertise and vision. I regret that in my speech I must have somewhat aggravated these key issues for the Finns. This is where Mrs Juvonen will speak, including the Finns of Peru, and I know that she will also speak very expertly about the situation of the elderly and about improving the status of the elderly, so that, in a way, this wealth can also be found. But these main messages I then went through, for example, this area of education and knowledge, and we had issues such as the threshold that did not fit the objectives of the Finns. In particular, I would like to highlight the extremely important issue of early childhood education, the raising of compulsory school age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u379	Madam President! I, too, had a bit of an earache when Mr Gustafsson said that all we were talking about was immigration and legbands. Even today, we have talked about almost everything in that government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u382	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Indeed, we have had a lot of different subjects here today that we have discussed. Main messages have come from every area, and the Finns of Finland are on the point that we want to improve the affairs of Finns and bring well-being to everyone. We are all for young people, older people, adults, the elderly, but of course we are critical of immigration, especially when it comes to poor immigration, and then we are also talking about footbands and immigration. Madam President! Say hi to Orimattila for me. I went to the house, and I had to say hello to bring them back here for the evening. There came up, just like here many times today, this forced Swedish. When Mr Gustafsson said here that there was no consensus in relation to educational themes, among other things, with the Finns of Peru, I looked at the answers we gave in relation to these subjects. There was a question, and there were four points to which we have answered. Among other things, they asked about investments in education, how to deal with secondary education and what ideas it gives rise to. For example, it has been a very important theme for us to train for the professions for which there is work. In other words, our answers were highly developmentable, constructive, how we view the education of young people and these investments. But surely this compulsory Swedish is something that we do not take kindly to, and those greetings I bring to you here, including, of course, many young people. Returning the compulsory Swedish to the matriculation exams is a punishment. It is unreasonable that the RKP, which has even weakened its support, has been able to dictate this issue to the government programme. You didn't ask teachers, you didn't ask the principals, you didn't ask the kids. The compulsory Swedish will increase the resistance to Swedish even further. It's a clear, psychological signal to the students. Anyone who needs Swedish in their work will study it. I do not believe that the wish of the government is that the Swedish language will be hated and hated. No, it is needed in certain areas, such as, for example, the care sector in which I have worked, and when it comes to that sector, it is also a requirement to learn the language. I was just looking at the volume. It was said here that 1.7 million were the total votes of the government parties. Well, that's the majority, but 7666 was the number of votes that separated the SDP and the Finns, which is in fact the most popular party in Finland at the moment. So it's God's blessing that the election was then. If they had been a little later, the situation would indeed be different. According to Statistics Finland, the number of votes cast by the RKP was 139640, i.e. the number of votes returned to the matriculation examination. I think it's pretty, pretty wild. It is really, really unreasonable, and the message that comes from young people, which comes from students, so they are engulfed. You understand, and you know that when things are forced to be dictated, it is not going to be a good thing. But these are the greetings. Well, then this extension of compulsory education. After all, this government program is now forcing the school to seat even those that are not necessarily interested in the school. We know that there are differences in learning and that there should be a great deal of effort in the 10th grade and in that early support, and even when we move to secondary school, we should catch and be there to support young people. School cranes are needed, school psychologists are needed, and the health care sector there is a need for everyone to have that time. Young people also develop at a different pace. When a young adult still develops in his 30 ’ s, there is not necessarily an awareness of what the field of the future is, it is not necessarily the young person who gets into the school bench, but that model of early support is the most important one. Indeed, a lot has been said about care for the elderly here, and I would like to stress here that I hope that care for the elderly will be put in order here, that care will be given, as quickly as possible, as soon as possible. At the end of this evening — so much time — I would like to send my greetings: my own mother is today's birthday, so if you're looking at this, I'd like to congratulate you on that Lake Siilin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u383	Mr President! Indeed, in these previous speeches it has already become clear that in these two days' discussions we Finns have raised a great many issues for society that are important for future development. Of course, immigration is one of those, but there are also many others we have talked about a lot. Security, national defence, related veteran affairs — they absolutely must be corrected in the future. We have also given many speeches on the importance of Finnish work and entrepreneurship and the operating conditions of industry, and we will continue to raise these issues very strongly. Mr Juvonen has spoken on several occasions, in which he has spoken very widely and with a very strong experience about the importance of care for the elderly. Among other things, we supported this nurseship last season. Unfortunately, it obviously did not move forward at that time for reasons of timetable. Let's hope it finally goes this season. We have also done a great deal of work in the form of initiatives in the last period and in the past in order to improve the position of indoor-air sufferers. This matter of insurance doctors has also been at the heart of Mr Ronkainen, and it is now also in this government programme. Hopefully, it will also proceed quickly. In the election programme, the Finns also had a strong focus on important questions related to the costs of living and moving. Unfortunately, on the basis of this government programme, it now appears that these costs will increase significantly during the next parliamentary term. We have also considered the issue of the balance of public finances to be important and, in fact, it was, in fact, the real threshold issue, which was why the Social Democrats did not invite the Finns to the government negotiations. It has also been wondered whether the fundamental Finns do not accept the important principle of parliamentaryism that the government should enjoy the confidence of Parliament. Of course, that majority may be made up of any group or even of individual representatives, and it now seems that this future government will, of course, meet this requirement. However, some government formations may be considered more artificial and therefore more difficult to justify. At least I have been asked by a large number of citizens right after the election whether the electorate actually has a real influence on matters, that is, whether voting can influence or whether it is worth staying at home on election day to rest. Yes, I have encouraged them to vote for the party they consider best able to handle Finnish affairs. Let me conclude by saying that, now that this government has this number of 117 seats, the same number of representatives would have been in the three largest parties, the Social Democrats, the People's Republic of Finland and the Assembly, but for some reason this option was not even sought to be clarified. This
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u384	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. 8.5. In Yle’s regional news from that direction in Lapland or North Ostrobothnia — I can’t remember which of them they were — some Social Democrats candidate had been interviewed, and he had told the reporter that this government base came as no surprise to him because it had already been agreed upon in connection with the breakdown of the previous government. So came Yle’s regional news of 8.5. We've been talking about veterans and old people. I myself have been helping some of the elderly, and when we talk about equality, I would hope that this government will make it possible for them to be treated equally. Take a look at the elderly shelters, the portions they eat, and visit these reception centers and see what they eat. Their meals are neither equal nor equal. But I wanted to come here and talk about what Mr Kiljunen has just said about humanitarianism and asylum seekers, and how we should treat them. I would now like to tell you that in 2014 I was vice-chairman of the National Defence Information Planning Board and was able to visit the Syrian refugee camps in Lebanon, and we visited a number of different sites there, and it was very modest. However, these feelings there were human in those circumstances. There were men, women, children, mentally disabled, grandmas, pops. There was no young man with gel in his head, no smartphones, no yuppie clothes. So this is 2014, I think, in September. In October-November 2015, I was in Haparanda. I filmed there when there were asylum seekers who were marketed to us with such pictures of children who were almost wither. There was talk of the bombed city of Homs in Syria, that there are now such starving children. There came 5 to 6 bus loads in Haparanta on the same day. I was standing by the bus when these asylum seekers came. Everyone had gel on their heads, everybody had yuppie clothes, everybody had smart cell phones. I urge you, Mr Kiljunen, to open your eyes to whether we have asylum seekers here or whether we have something else here. As a result of your work as a representative, you will certainly have the opportunity to visit real asylum seekers and real people in need of some humanitarian help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u391	Madam President! We have talked not only about foreign policy but also about energy policy, and I will return to both of them. I made my previous speech specifically on foreign policy, as it were, on those opportunities not only in relation to climate change but also in relation to asylum policy, on exports, and also on the root of the reasons which we need to address in that world when we are shouldering our responsibilities. Our foreign policy line is that Finland is all the bigger in the world, and I listed a few possibilities in that speech. Every time we influence and open up exports through Team Finland, for example, they are also euros here in Finland, to meet our domestic challenges. Among other things, I listed the facts that Finland does not have a delegation or a delegation in sub-Saharan Africa in French, how we have opportunities, for example, in Côte d'Ivoire in Abidjan, Accra in Ghana, Bamako in Mali, and also in Tashkent in Uzbekistan. I would therefore like Minister Haavisto to be able to comment on what the priorities are and what the opportunities are in that world, so that we will increase the weight so that we will also answer the questions of the right-wing conservative opposition on climate and refugee issues and, on the other hand, so that we will open up Finland more and more, because the world is increasingly global. As far as energy policy is concerned, I am well aware of the concerns about all the ways in which energy is produced. There are no such optimal ways. Perhaps the main rule is that we produce energy in a very diverse way, and I believe that we must strive for energy self-sufficiency, where we are not yet. Especially with winter frosts, we import a lot of imported energy. In this respect, it is quite good for Sweden and Norway, but we also have energy dependence on the east, and I think we need to come more and more towards self-sufficiency. One way is, of course, to extend the common energy market in the European Union, but we must also think here at home about how we produce not only electricity but also heat energy. Wind power is part of that solution. We are building more and more market-based wind turbines, and, for example, in the coastal region wind power is produced quite a lot, and there are many new projects. But it is not the only right option, and I must say that the representative has justifiable concerns about where we are going to build, but the formulas define this, and that wisdom also resides in those provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u392	Madam President! Representative Mäenpää went here to ask for personal experience history. It is usually not so good to have this parliamentary debate, but I can tell you that I have been working longer in an elderly home. I know, and I see in concrete terms, the shortcomings and problems of the elderly, seen with my own eyes. As Mr Gustafsson said, I have been around the world to the extent that I have been to the most shocking places about refugees, prisons around the world, and in that sense I agree with your view that elderly people in Finland and asylum seekers anywhere in the world should be treated as people — people. Fundamental human rights, human dignity, are completely indifferent to borders. Solidarity knows no limits on these issues, and that must be the starting point for all of us in our assessment of these issues. We make a big mistake if we draw conclusions about a person about gels or cell phones, for example, whether he is the target of political persecution in a country. It is an incorrect angle to look immediately at the external nature of people. Yes, when an asylum investigation is carried out, a person’s history must be reviewed, acquainted with what circumstances come, the circumstances, the kind of persecution that people are subjected to, and that is why this pure personal observation, surface observation, is not sufficient, although of course it gives us an experience basis. Mr Vallin pointed out here that when there is much talk of immigration, it would be precisely that mass immigration that would be the problem. We can say that all the uncontrollable phenomena in society are problems and must be controlled, including the movement of people, but I guess across the world people have been moving around the world since the international migration, so this is genuine movement. The shrinking world that we are facing right now means that capital, goods, services, technology, information and people are moving across borders. This is the reality of the world in which we live right now, and this reduction is a genuine phenomenon. So, too, Finns have been part of mass migrations if they now adopt this term. At the turn of the previous century, nearly 300,000 Finns migrated mainly to North America — then Australia, but North America in particular. In the 1960s, 400,000 Finns moved to a neighbouring country, Sweden, with a net migration rate of nearly 300,000. These are facts. During World War II 70,000 Finnish children were taken to Sweden. These are mass movements, mass movements of people. Then Finns needed work, went abroad to seek work, went there to work as refugees of living standards, can be said if these terms are used in rhetoric, or needed protection, like Finnish war children. These are phenomena that have been a part of society. We also face it in another way. Let's respect humanity in this situation. That must be the basic point. And now, when we look at immigration in Finland, the overwhelming majority of foreigners here are from the European Union, especially from our neighbouring countries Sweden, Estonia, partly also from Russia and so on — Russia is not the European Union. Only a small segment is, then, so to speak — when terms are used here — people from elsewhere, from the third world, from the south, from a distance. So, in this debate, too, we must use a sense of proportion that we understand. The main reason for immigration is love, family reunification, that's the main reason there. Then there are jobs, studies, and as a small part are these potential, the most vulnerable people when we talk about refugees. This is the overall situation if this debate is to take place now, but as Mr Gustafsson has said here, this is not even the most important problem in Finnish society. There are a lot of things that have been written down in the Government Programme, which fortunately have been the subject of this debate on the main rules, and I will also end this debate here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u393	Madam President! Just a few more words about education policy. Good speeches have been made here today, even during the evening, and although my party is not in the government, it is expected that the government will gain confidence tomorrow. There are good records in the Government Programme that we can very much support, especially the investments made in early years and early childhood education. In part, I am perhaps a little disappointed that the Government Programme merely clarifies this two-year pre-school education — it should be put into effect as such. So these entries are good and supported. Mr Gustafsson spoke very wisely here, but I cannot agree with him on this further extension of compulsory schooling. I do not believe that these challenges can be significantly improved, for example in the case of second-degree pass, by simply mechanically increasing the compulsory education age, but by the time the young person has these challenges, it is far too late to tackle them until the end of the primary school, during the second stage, and it is precisely then that the government should turn even more attention to that early years and try to ensure that, in the early years, we get to grips with these problems. It is an impressive activity, not so much a mechanical departure from compulsory school life. Madam President! Now that there are still ministers in the box, although these do not belong directly in the ministers' portfolios, I would like to throw the ball in this regard. Having worked in both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education from my previous background, I will now throw you a ball on this subject. Two points: The first concerns integration training. This current situation in Finland is not satisfactory. In Finland, integration training is very far from the study path and education. It would be good for you to find out how, when a person goes to home training, those paths can be more closely linked to secondary education, so that at the same time language training can be combined, for example, with certain periods of vocational education and training. This sums up the courses and also supports the faster integration and transition of the person. My second point then relates to young people at risk of exclusion and, for example, to workshops and, for example, to vocational training. Here we should continue to look at the closer paths that would then continue to support the movement of these people. These are what I now offer you to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u394	Mr President! The Finns Party believes that illegal residents should be returned from Finland to their own countries. Last season, we were dealing with the amendment of the Social Welfare Act, which created, instead of restoring it, an attraction factor, that is to say, the state budget has been allocated money to ensure that illegal residents receive housing, food and medicines. At that time, the Finns of Finland made many statements in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where I myself worked, and the statements received support from the Greens and Christian Democrats, among others. Among other things, we suggested that these people should be registered so that we would know where they are and who they are in Finland. How could it be that this is something that can be moved forward? It is very important that we know who is in our country. I am concerned that we are now in Finland, in accordance with your government programme, expanding this necessary treatment, which is also a factor of attraction, as well as raising the issue of employment. It does raise questions as to what work could be done without paper, illegally staying in the country. But, my dear Foreign Minister, when you are there in the box — thank you for having you ministers there — I would have asked you now about these so-called Isis wives, of whom much has been said recently: how do you see their situation and how do you react to whether they should be allowed to return to Finland and under what conditions? People are wondering and wondering what the idea might be. And anyway, I would like to ask what kind of foreign policy you will see in the coming period and what threats there may be in relation to Finnish security: just a little look at what kind of ideas you see and where Finland will be placed in this security issue. All in all, as I have often said, there are good things in the government programme. Among other things, there are investments in hospice care. It may sound small, but it is a big step for all Finns that every person is entitled to good, safe care at times when they are there on the evening of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u395	Mr President! First of all, to Mr Marttinen: I can comfort him in the sense that the two-year preschool is indeed to be piloted, so it is not just to be clarified. As regards raising the compulsory education age, I agree that this alone is not enough, and that is why the government also strengthens early childhood education and cancels the weakening of the previous term of the government, strengthens primary school and strengthens the provision of education in primary and secondary schools and develops the guidance of joint stages. In this big change, Mr Marttinen and others' ideas and lunches are also welcome. Then, in this Chamber, among other things, Mrs Juvonen has raised this issue of matriculation examination. My own interpretation is that the ultimate goal behind this Government Programme entry is to increase the enthusiasm of young people for learning another Finnish language and to strengthen language learning. Of course, this policy, like any decision-making process, requires careful and long-term preparation and evaluation. We need to find the most effective means and assess their impact in a broad way. At the moment, many high school students and those considering going to high school are wondering how this government program will affect their lives. Of course, young people must be able to rely on the predictability of decision-making. We must also ensure that we do not increase the burden on students in a situation where far too many people are already exhausted. Fortunately, however, the rights of our bilingualism and linguistic minorities, or even the availability of services, do not depend solely on the matriculation examination. All in all, this government programme sends out a strong message in favour of bilingualism and the rights of linguistic minorities, and that is a good thing. It is totally unacceptable that those who speak Swedish as their mother tongue are now subject to discrimination even in everyday situations. This will require a change, and I hope that this government programme will also bring about it in this social climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u396	Mr President! The representative Hyrkko already raised good points of view from that increase in compulsory school age. It is quite true and clear that it does not only help young people to be marginalised and disembarked from school life and working life, but we need much more, and we have a lot of good records about that in the government programme. But it is clear that the free movement of secondary education makes it easier for young people, especially in low-income families. That is quite clear. It should be noted that the government is investing in the primary and secondary education, for example, through a permanent increase of EUR 29 million. It's a very significant investment. And they also invest in the early learning of basic skills in early childhood education and basic education. EUR 235 million has also been earmarked for investment in the reform of vocational training practices. However, in the life of our children and young people, I consider that the Government Programme sets out truly significant contributions to the well-being of families with children, because the life of the child and the young leaves the home and the family. It is truly remarkable that now families can sigh about relief in not having to wonder whether I can and will be able to take care of my children at home when the government programme says that home care support will remain the same and that the freedom of choice for families will be increased in that they can choose whether to put their children in day care or take care of them at home. I am not in favour of extending compulsory education from that younger age, but of having a child, and the present preschool age is all right. That is the most important thing that parents can choose for themselves what is a child’s care. These additional contributions from the Government Programme to education of children and young people, early childhood education, basic education, vocational training, upper secondary school education and higher education, and then these issues increase the well-being of families and homes. Finland’s families, children and young people have brighter prospects with this government programme, and if what increases well-being and is also visible there in school life, when the home conditions of children and young people may be better. That is what we must strive for together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u397	Mr President! That is how much I want to get back to Mr Kiljunen that I hope you have seen the document that the YLE failed to show before the elections, that is to say the Seinäjoki Arab Spring document. It clearly shows the ratio of the number of genuine asylum seekers, and if not, you can come and ask me about it sometimes in private. Finland currently has three branches of industry with huge growth potential. They are the recovery industry, the fast-winding industry and the wind power industry. I have already dealt with the wind power industry, so I will leave it elsewhere. Let's just say that here on page 80 of the government programme, this text is well documented, and I quote here: 'The amount of the recovery costs to be charged for recovery operations is set at the euro-denominated upper limits even if the debtor is a non-consumer private person. The Government shall take steps to strengthen the capacity of the authorities to intervene in recovery activities that are contrary to law or good means of recovery.” I think this entry is positive. This is great. I have long wondered how some of the Finnish people seem to be so incompetent in the handling of money that they fall into such quick levers, and thus their future may go very far around these collection agencies. I think that you should add the speed lever industry to page 80 here. I believe that this kind of legislation, which you are calling for, is that some maximum amounts should be laid down, how much it may cost to recover, also for these fast-track companies. I believe that this must be dealt with by means of legislation to provide some kind of protection for those of our people who are affected by this. I think the clock is flashing a little red, but I would like to continue this with a little more permission, that there is one flaw in student support that should be taken into account now that the age of compulsory education changes. When student financial aid is granted and affected by the income of the parents, the number of dependent children of the applicant should be taken into account in the amount of student financial support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u398	The Members will be told that if you mean a three-minute time limit for a drink, you can continue to speak here from the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u399	Mr President! I will take that speech from Mrs Hyrkö. You're from Espoo, and I'm from Espoo. In Espoo, the number of Swedish-speaking residents was 20,000 at the beginning of 2018, slightly on top, and it is predicted that in 2027 the number would be 19570, and from then on a decrease would be expected. So this is our hometown forecast. I do not know how much Swedish-speaking people are there in Savo, where I come from, Siilinjärvi, but I know that young people and teachers are concerned about this, how this is going to go. You said it was meant to inspire you to study another language. Yes, this, the government, seems a bit like a straitjacket. You must have done these things here. You must have moved us here to the right. It's good to be here, there's nothing wrong with it, and then there's the others on the left. But they should be voluntary, you understand, and everyone should, if they have not read educational sciences, have the sound and practical sense of reason that we cannot force such things into the head of a person to instill or teach. It's a different thing when I've used myself as an example and I'm a nurse and I'm a genomician, that I've studied more in my own postgraduate studies and I can do it there in the nursing world, and that's the way it should be. The language of the heart is spoken and the patient needs to be treated in his native language, but this is an exaggeration. It's an exaggeration, isn't it? Back to the recession in the old days, Swedish becomes compulsory to write in matriculation examination. Think of it when you put math on your side. Isn't it great that high school students write math? It's gonna be an emergency. It's gonna be trouble. It really causes difficulty, and under duress — yes, this is wrong. Think of your own children, think of your own young people, those who are close to them, how they react to this. Yes, this is something that will be opposed, and I am absolutely certain that this will also be a citizens' initiative, so you can expect us to have a citizens' initiative on this issue as well. I would do it myself, but I see that as a Member of Parliament, I am not going to take a citizens' initiative when I can also take legal initiatives here, but I believe that young people will come out in a tumult. Our young people in Finland are not stupid; they will choose the language that they feel will also be capital for them in the future. They go to Europe, they go there to study, they go to work. Germany, French and English, which is a great thing: English speaking small children already, thanks to computer games, thanks to YouTube videos. Even babies speak and learn English. Of course, it is fine capital, that is, you, the government, would sit down again to think and cancel this forced Swedish, because it is only harmful.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u400	Mr President! That is where Mr Kiljunen said that Finns have some obligation to keep their borders open to anyone who marched in from there, because Finns have sometimes moved abroad. I do disagree strongly on this. As a politician, I feel that my primary responsibility is to protect Finnish women and children and only a secondary task then to consider whether there is a real refugee or not. It is, of course, a question of value choice, because these things are opposites. If the borders are open, there comes and has come, as we have recently read again in the papers, people who have done bad deeds. I can't give in to the idea that we should just swallow this sort of thing as small mild phenomena of this violence, which follows this open border policy. This is, of course, for the voters to decide again when the elections come, which one of them will be weighted, but at least I and the Finns of Peru think that the safety of the population is a priority and then secondary... Of course we have to help people if they are in distress, but if there are 65 million refugees there, then it is quite easy to conclude from it that tens of millions cannot be taken here in Europe. Then the fact, when you spoke, Mr Kiljunen, that back in the '60s there were population movements, that in the '60s, when I was born, there were two and a half billion people on this planet. Now there are seven and a half billion, and the population is growing by more than 80 million a year, and when the populations are growing right where they should no longer grow, this problem is not going anywhere but is getting worse. We must now think proactively, or proactively, whether the solution is what is now being pursued, this policy of open borders, or whether we should act more decisively now. This is how I see it, and I am sure that there is a disagreement here with the Social Democrats that borders must be kept open regardless of the consequences. Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u401	Mr. Speaker! It's not worth it for a long time, however, because the night is already coming. The first thing I'd answer to Mr. Juvos is this: Yes, we all agree, you have to have a very bad motivator, and in all studies the motive is number one. I'm sure we'll share this. Then there are other subjects for discussion, and we can consider what is necessary in what situation — if you are placed ideologically in the right place in this Chamber, whether it is forced or not, or how languages are studied and so on. On behalf of Mr Mäenpää and also Mr Vallin, I would like to say a brief word: You referred to a document about the situation in Tornio and Haparanda. You can always say that an example is not evidence. It can always be said in every situation, and you must have pointed out that there may have been a situation in this case, that someone is abusing the asylum system — I do not take a stand when I do not know and have not seen the document. All over the world, including in Finland, there is a world page with various benefits, social benefits and others, where there are also abuses. This is no more strange than that, and the fact that someone sometimes misuses these things does not change this. But it is essential that Finland is committed to international cooperation. We are committed to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, which determines that the persecuted person and the person in need of protection will be protected from the civilised state. We are committed to this, and we still have agreements at European level relating to these asylum seekers. It is a global system and we are trying to bear this solidarity, which knows no borders everywhere. This is the basic fact. None of us is of the opinion that the borders themselves are open unsupervised. No one here has ever said anything like that. You say that there will be these problems and the problems and what each person has done, but we can well say now that the overwhelming majority of all immigrants who have come to Finland have done a huge amount of good things for Finland, just as Finnish people do good things, even though we also have problematic people who do bad things. This is normal, and now we look at it in some way from a strange angle as if some other group of people were acting differently than people in general. Let us give value to ourselves, value to one another and respect one another, and that is the basic basis on which we have to look at these things. You pointed out that population growth in the world is the worst in the southern hemisphere, where living conditions are the worst. Without a doubt, if we do not improve living conditions there, what our Foreign Minister and Minister for Development and Cooperation are trying to do from their own roots, we will be faced with the problems of people moving to those conditions, as the Finns did in the past, moving after work to Sweden, the United States and so on. This is the world's movement, people do this. A perfectly normal phenomenon, no bigger than that, and it is certainly not the biggest problem in Finnish society. We have a lot of challenges and it is great that the government is taking them up with this fine government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u402	Mr President! It has already been said on many occasions that there is a great deal of good in the government programme, and there are many things that are easy to praise, which are easy to agree on, many things that have also been promoted by the coalition during the last period, have been launched by the last government, have been put forward in its own electoral programme and will certainly now also be promoted by the opposition. What causes a lot of question marks is the fact that there are still fewer ways to achieve these good objectives. And now, of course, we want to challenge and ask questions about how these good objectives can actually be achieved and how they can be financed. Now that I see that Minister Mikkonen, whom I very much appreciate, is there, I will focus in particular on these environmental and climate themes: In particular, the expansion and resourcing of Metso's programme could be highlighted as positive issues. It has been a great experience, and it is great that the government continues and expands. Another good example is the update of the Water Act, particularly with regard to these fishing obligations. It has been wanted for a long time, and it is a very much needed entry. For that, thank you to the government. Thirdly, I would like to praise the whole of nutrient recycling, which is like my own pen. It is very successful in its formulations, but unfortunately it is less resourceful in terms of objectives. In other words, it could exist at some point, even in the context of the amending budget, in order to achieve the good objectives of nutrient recycling. But what I would now like to ask about or raise concerns about: First of all, there was talk of so-called environmentally harmful corporate subsidies under the elections and of billions of benefits that would be easy to cut out if only there were political will. However, the government is now cutting business subsidies by around EUR 100 million and, for example, has little to do with the tax advantage on peat, from which 230 million could already be decoupled as such. Otherwise, in terms of peat energy use, the line is not as tight as it could have expected. Are we going to come back to this and update it? Secondly, on the issue of the protection of bogs: They're talking about a programme to protect the swamps, but not about restoration. How will this protection of bogs be put into practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u403	Mr President! I'm gonna have to comment now. You swallowed the last words, but since I have such good hearing, I did hear them: ‘Is it necessary if you move to a proper place? “ I wonder what you meant by this. I remember that there were a lot of arguments, which is why this transfer was made. There were a lot of arguments there, and this started last autumn, and you were not then, Mr Kiljunen, in Parliament, but the main reason was that RKP wanted to get closer to the cameras — that is, they were not here. And this was the first conversation that started. So they wanted to move more in the middle. The Finns of Peru are part of a large city centre, and perhaps we will return to our own places, because now this possibility has been opened up that voting can move seats. Imagine if this matter had been dealt with in another way, used this sort of educational style and this kind of psychology, that it would have gone into a proper negotiation. But there was no such negotiating link, on the contrary. It had to be done, didn't it? However, I would like to say here that we are not bitter, because we are very happy to be here, and we are now washing from here to the right. It's good to be here. But I did not quite understand that sentence, because those reasons were completely different from this ideology when we were transferred here, but then we got a stick horse as well as an EU horse. Yes, it was a unfortunate way to start a new parliamentary term, what happened here. And that's just about the way things were handled. There are many ways to do things. But this is just like the conversation now, so I heard what you said. I will not sign it and we will not sign it, and that is what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u404	Mr President! That representative, Mr Kiljunen, was so motivated by me that I thought I might make a small contribution. Do you not find it worrying that I am being contacted by political asylum seekers who have come to our country? They are concerned about this uncontrolled invasion that came to Finland. Is it not, in some way, stopping, that a person from Iran contacts and is concerned about this situation? I have no objection to a person coming here from Russia — it is easy for them to adapt here, their religion is very much like our religion — or if they come from Estonia or somewhere else. In the autumn of 2015, asylum seekers came to Finland from countries with a different religion than ours and where there are several branches within the religion, when they are not able to live with each other. In 2015, about 32,000 people came here, mainly from the same religion, but very many of them from different branches of religion. It's going to cause problems. If you'd mind watching that document about Seinäjoki's Arab Springs, it'll be on Yleisradio for a few more days. It is very clear when the asylum seeker tells us that some of them came here to be a tourist, some to rape. I know something else about that documentary, but I'm just gonna tell you what I'm gonna say in public. There's one good entry in this government program. It says here: ‘Improving the fight against alien species, both through legislation and through increased funding I'm afraid this is in the wrong place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u405	Mr President! I almost would not like to comment at all on Mr Mäenpää's speech because of that final quote. All I am saying is that we have an asylum application process, a process of processing, which exceptionally closely monitors how asylum seekers meet the criteria for granting this protection under the Geneva Convention on Refugees. This is the only basic point. We find examples of the world’s page well, in very different carnal situations, and it is not worth thinking about these things through. On the other hand, Mr Juvonen — and that is where I will end — you were quite right to hear what I said. You are not a party based on your values. In the European context, including the Finnish context, your base of values moves between conservativeism and extreme right. You are in this Chamber exactly where you belong in the ideological left-wing—right-wing, conservative-liberalism—what we can do at the time of our order of business. Recognize your own situation, acknowledge your own ideology. Be quite upright in what you are, in the way we have this debate at our best. In that sense, this order is an ideologically fine achievement, an historic achievement. You are sitting in this division — if this is the division between right and left, conservative — liberal — in the right place, and with all due respect carry the burden, benefit, grandeur that is here. I represent the other side. I am here on the left side of this hall, also in my opinion I am sitting in the right place in this regard. Right? Let's acknowledge our own condition, and let's give each other some dignity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u406	Mr President! Now I have to ask, Mr Kiljunen, which world you live in. You say in that way that no one has actually demanded borders open, and you know quite well — or I do not know whether you know — that there are also demonstrations there that demand borders open. Politicians have also called for borders to be open, especially the red-green politicians, about the reference group you yourself belong to. That is quite true, and that is why it is important that we talk about taking that control back now. The fact that the passport appears somewhere to cross the border is not a great sacrifice in view of our ability to prevent these standard of living shops from coming, for example, from Sweden, from Stockholm, for example, from being directed to this train, this train goes just north, from there you go by bus, you walk across the border from Tornio and so on. It's not a big deal to show you a passport, because we can still move back and forth. In addition to that, you also say that we give value to ourselves, but also to others. Such phrases include the objection that we would not give respect to others. It is not that we do not appreciate some other people in some other societies, but that we demand that this world function fairly. At the moment, the tens of millions of people who are in refugee camps, those who would really need training there, which will be there for several years — even if they were my age and younger — would need those module schools where they would be taught, health care and medicine. Instead we really take such individual mascots here so that we can say that look, so much we have taken, and then comes a good conscience. But at the same time we turn our backs on every man who comes, the humanitarian comer, toward 30 people. We Finns have talked about this kind of humanitarian crisis aid, which is directed directly to the camps, and this can be negotiated, for example, in the case of quota refugees, that the amounts will be converted into money and directed there. That is what we have been talking about, and that is precisely what is at the heart of giving value to the other. At the moment, we do not act in that way. But this is outrageous the way you paint other people, Mr. Kiljunen. Seriously, stick to the facts, listen to what we're saying, and don't create such a bunch of useless strawheads. That's just like fucking with someone else the way you're going to have this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u407	Mr President! That screamer always motivates me over and over again on this wire. Mr Kiljunen, you said that we are between the extreme right and the conservatives. How do you classify the People's Party: what does it represent and is it the place of the People's Party on the left?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u409	Mr President! First, there's a representative. I scream at the mention or question of how the Finns of Finland really view these people who are seeking asylum here, and can we accept this process? Well, we have precisely raised a wide-ranging debate on how to deal with these people who, even after a long appeal process, have received a negative asylum decision and refuse to leave the country. We have argued on numerous occasions that, among other things, these people should be detained and then, of course, try to return them to their countries of origin as quickly and as quickly as possible. On the other hand, this government programme contains a point which talks about the introduction of technical controls, whatever that means, possibly these footbands which have been in public debate, but, yes, our strong suspicion is that these means can even further mitigate this current legislation. Then on this second topic of discussion, that is, this ideological location of the Finns of Peru, both here in Parliament and, of course, on the political map. Mr Kiljunen said that we are conservatives. That is certainly the case. Home, religion, country have long been important values for Finns. They're still for us. I do not know if they are for the left, but they are certainly important values for the Finns. Then, as far as these far-right comments are concerned, the representative: Screaming is hardly able to define basic Finnish ideology. But, of course, I can understand that even though the Finns of Peru are located in a broad political centre, from his point of view, we can be very far off to the right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u410	Mr President! This speech is addressed to Mr Haavisto. Now that you are in charge of foreign affairs during this period, I would actually like to ask you how to start distributing development funds. I remember how, before the elections, you spoke about how important it is to implement the rule of law. You raised it quite a number of times, for example you spoke about Hungary, you spoke about Poland. Many other politicians talked about these same things and called for funding to be cut off, for example at EU level, if certain principles are not implemented. But you are now the guardian of development aid funds and you have the opportunity to regulate it and to impose Ukaas on various countries that if certain basic minimum standards are not met, then Finland will close its development aid funds. I would now like to focus this on those countries in which Finland provides development aid and where the rights of people like me, homosexuals, do not come true, even in the way that these people are persecuted to the end, killed, thrown off the roof and so on. Turkey was visited when my own partner lived there, six times in the last year. Turkey is the most liberal head of Muslim countries, but nevertheless in the nightclub when we kissed, the guard came to tell us that if you do not stop, we will remove — Turkey is one of the most liberal countries in the world. However, there are a huge number of countries in the world that are far worse Muslim countries than Turkey is, and countries to which Finland is giving development aid, so now I would ask you whether you are prepared to impose these conditions, that if the killing of homosexuals does not stop in these Muslim countries, where Finland is giving development aid, including in North Africa, then the development aid funds for Finland will stop. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u411	Now that there are so clear questions in the Council of Ministers and there are no more speakers on the list of speakers, at least at this point in time, I am surprised, then we will give them the answers. — First Minister Mikkonen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u412	Mr President! For example, this debate has highlighted the fact that Finland has large sinks, but at the same time we know that Finland's emissions are also large and emissions per capita are over 10,000, which are from the top. Therefore, this government's objective of being carbon neutral would mean that our sinks would compensate for our emissions, but this is not the case at the moment, and that is why this government programme now wants to make a strong climate policy. There is concern about traffic and whether we can drive in the future. Traffic is a big source of emissions. That is 38% of our emissions in the burden-sharing sector, and unfortunately transport emissions have risen. But that does not mean that we need to stop driving, but that we also have alternatives to mobility. We can develop less-emission traffic. Railway projects are a good example of this; we have transport biogas. There are a lot of carrots in this programme for people to move towards a low-emission car, and it is possible to do so on a very fast schedule. Mr Sirén raised some good points on what is in this programme, but perhaps some points on which we could have invested even more. I couldn't agree more. The Government is committed to a comprehensive reform of the energy tax by 2020. It will also look at and evaluate the changes needed to tax peat. Mr Sirén then asked about this protection that the programme for the protection of bogs is here, but is it the restoration of bogs? It's here. It is just hidden in this sort of perhaps a little hazy phrase, which says that it is implemented by a weakened habitat status improvement program. This includes the restoration of bogs and also, for example, bird wetlands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u413	And Minister Haavisto, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u414	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions. I will try to answer some of them here. At first there was the very broad question of what the foreign policy line of this new government is. If I say so very closely, it is perhaps an emphasis on value-based values, that is to say, the government programme emphasises the importance of human rights, the status of women, the rule of law, the fight against climate change, and from this value-based approach it is then made foreign policy, knowing that the interests of a small state are that the world operates on the basis of agreements and rules — for example, in world trade there are now a wide range of protectionist tendencies and other things that violate this rule-based approach — and it is in the interests of rule-basedness. And, of course, the presidency of the European Union gives Finland one chance to flag these values on behalf of us. I would like to have a detailed discussion with the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs as soon as possible on these new guidelines of the Government Programme. You also asked about the situation of Isis wives and children. I thought it might have something to do with this camp in Al-Hol. That is something we have, of course, been following day by day and have also used the help of our Nordic colleagues in it — Sweden, Norway, Denmark have been following this in the same way. After all, the powers of our authorities do not extend to that camp, but, of course, through different routes, we are trying to ensure that the children are safe there, and here there are various solutions, including this idea of the International Court of Justice, and this type of one, which is now being investigated as to the timetable for their implementation. Surely the pace with the other Nordic countries here will work, the information will be exchanged as much as possible, and of course the best interests of the children will be our leading prince when we try to find a solution there. Mr Vallin then put forward a very good Africa-thinking, even in a little lingo spirit, about what will happen when people's standards of living rise and so forth. This is actually the reason why we have been talking about the Africa strategy in the past, which means that we should have the means to get people out of poverty but along a path of sustainable development so that we do not end up with new environmental or climate problems. And that is where our know-how, our technological know-how, everything we know about combating climate change, the knowledge of Finnish companies, everything that should be at stake, and I believe that the European Union and Finland can make a lot of difference in the direction Africa is taking. Then Mr Tynkkyse had a very specific question. In fact, the development funds are managed by Minister Skinner, who is now the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the same ministry, that is to say the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that I do not have the courage to promise too much on his behalf, but we do have this line: firstly, zero tolerance in the misuse of development funds at all and, if there are any irregularities, there will be a moratorium on the use of funds. This has been done so far, it is accurate. Then on the question of human rights — you took, for example, the situation of sexual minorities: These have been addressed with quite a hard grip. One example is Uganda, where the EU jointly initiated action, pressure on Uganda, which then changed its own behaviour in this regard. Where this influence exists, of course, it is used. Representative Könttä gave a very commendable speech and also a comment on how Finland is represented around the world and the expansion of the Embassy Network. Indeed, this government has the idea of expanding the network of embassies. For example, we have taken French-speaking Africa, where Finland has very poor representation at the moment. What things? Of course, these are our commercial interests, the environmental issues, the fight against climate change, the support for peace processes and the mediation issues, all of which are well highlighted in this programme, and these criteria will of course then assess where we have gaps in the embassies network. And in fact — I do not know how much longer the debate will continue — I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the entire Government, to thank Parliament. I think there have been more than 200 speeches on this list today, and Prime Minister Rinne's instructions were to listen with an accurate ear and put it up and answer the ideas that come in this House. I think that is true parliamentaryism. Of course, the confidence of the government is also measured, but the know-how and know-how of the MPs must be introduced in all these matters that the government is taking forward. And thank you for all the ideas that have been expressed so far in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u415	And thank you to the ministers, too. — And to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u416	Mr President! I thank Minister Haavisto for this reply, and when I know that you are an expert in Africa, a few other questions came to mind, and now that it is conveniently calm to ask, they will ask. [Interjection] Finland provides development aid and China also provides development aid to Africa, but I have heard from one small African country that when China provides development aid, they will then, in return, ask for, for example, tax exemptions for Chinese companies. Does Finland do the same thing that it is not completely free of charge? It’s just that Finnish companies would then have a good position there to compete with technology. Then: Why is development aid fragmented? Is there some reason why there are hundreds of organizations and over a thousand projects? Why not, for example, take a smaller African state than Finland, such as Cape Verde or something, and put one country in order at a time, so that we can compete with other countries that provide development aid in that who will first get one country in order at a time? Somehow this kind of logic is missing from this fragmentary development aid — so when you don’t know the matter yet and only when you’re visiting Africa think about it. Then about this protectionism: You obviously hinted at the President of the United States, and are you going to tell him, too, that it has been a bad idea to put the US economy in such a position with protectionism? Should he have acted differently against his own nation? Now it was a bit provocative, but this is a very relevant question because they have record low unemployment and stock market prices on the ceiling, which means that they have done the right thing clearly, so that protectionism is not just a bad thing, and Europe should perhaps be more protectionist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u417	Minister Haavisto wishes to respond directly to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u418	Excellent questions for Mr Vallin. I'll try to answer them quickly. These differences between Finland and China when we operate in Africa — of course the volumes are different. However, we must remember that China also has humanitarian projects. They build schools, they build hospitals. Perhaps the problem has so far been that they are rather isolated from the rest of the donor community and this coordination has not always worked so well with the rest of the donor community. In fact, here comes your second question about fragmentation in the sense that one might think from here that one country should be put in order. Namibia was probably the country where we had quite a lot of influence, and I could see away. However, the countries are independent countries. They have their own ideas, their own aspirations, their own goals. It is not easy to knock on the door and say that we are now putting your country in order. Ownership is so important. But what has been tried to do is to coordinate between donors, that is, all the EU countries and indeed the Western donor countries coordinate not to do things like the education sector on top of each other, but to share responsibility for and agree on who is doing what. And this works better now than before, actually works very well in many countries. The third is this protectionism. I am speaking now of the interests of Finland. You too sometimes talk about how Finland gets the best possible result in the world. If you think of our export companies, protectionism and closing borders and changing rules of international trade can easily hamper our foreign trade and exports. We are a small export-driven country, and it is in our interest, of course, to promote an international system in which our companies are able to operate around the world and obtain export markets and export barriers as little as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u419	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you two ministers who are here. Minister for the Environment and Climate Affairs Mikkonen: I do not know if you — I assume you were — were there when I spoke about this health survey on the effects of wind power on human health. This is a bit difficult, but I would like to make it quite clear that the experience, the sincere experience I have on this subject, is that we are now building exceptionally large wind turbines in Finland. Currently, permits are applied for for large wind turbines. For example, Halsua has parks with about 50 to 60 wind turbines, as I recall, and 10 megawatts is the power of the wind generator. That power equals about two electric locomotives. These are exceptionally large. Here is some kind of peculiar business that these facilities are rented and forest areas are rented, and they think they will be allowed to buy a Mercedes next week, but then here is this kind of long delay. These rental rights are being sold. However, practice has shown that they cause problems for human health. And now there are exceptionally large windmills built in Finland. I do not believe that these are anywhere else so large-scale built here in the middle of the settlement. The kind of meter with which wind power infra-sound, the infra-wave, can be measured up to zero hertz, has only been developed about two years ago in Oulu. Until now, it has not been possible to make those measurements. At the moment — I hope you will write down — there is such a thing as cyte.fi, Finnish environmental health, such an association, which these private people finance. It has made such measurements of the effects of wind power, and has proved that they carry tens of kilometres. Now they wonder if a safe border is five kilometers or ten kilometers. I ask you, now that you are Minister of the Environment and Climate and this issue of wind power has to do with both: are you really prepared to find out objectively about the health effects of wind power on humans and animals?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u420	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Mikkos for his answers and clarifications, particularly as regards the protection of the bogs and the restoration of bogs. Now that there is still a chance, let me be more specific: is this supplementary programme for the protection of the chords to be implemented on a voluntary basis or in some other way? In addition, one wonders whether this 100 million is earmarked for nature conservation, which is found in the Government Programme records, but not exactly the same amount in the annexes, but whether it was 46 million, which was allocated directly to nature conservation. What is the whole, what does it contain or where does it come from? Is there a greater clarity about this already? One of the things I was pleased to note when reading the government programme was that it was going back to this type of committee-type preparation and specifically on climate issues. Indeed, at the end of the last period, it was a great thing that eight parties were able to come up with common, rather ambitious climate guidelines. Even after the Katowice climate conference, I myself suggested that this work, which was created around a common line of parties, should be continued during this period in such a way that other stakeholders and bodies, organisations, social partners, researchers, climate-active young people, etc. would also be included around the round table. And this is the record in the Government Programme that this round table on climate issues will continue. Is there already some idea or knowledge of how this will be implemented in practice? It would be very valuable if the work were to continue precisely on the basis of this party's round table and the eight parties that committed themselves to the common climate objectives were to be involved and that knowledge and work would then be extended to other experts and different perspectives. This was one of the records I was very happy to read about the government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u421	Chairman! I have already today thanked the government for its new work moral, working culture, that the government representatives are sitting here listening to this debate on the Government Programme in this Parliament on such a broad front and so thoroughly that it is already 11 o'clock in the evening and you are still here. Thank you for that. On the other hand, your presence will cause us to have to ask you questions after questions, and this is already going a little to the advantage of our parliamentarians, because there are other opportunities for us to have a debate with you. I promise you this will be the last question I will ask here tonight in any direction. Representative Könttä has, at least, brought up this network of representations several times today, and Minister Haavisto has just gone over this issue. In short, I would like to throw this supplementary comment at it. Mr Könttä referred to West Africa. We have an entire area, Central America, which is without representation. Mexico will not be included in the small countries of Central America in that way, as it is defined in a way. There is one point, and this debate can be continued in some context, probably within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, more precisely, whether it would be more possible to widen the structure of this Finnish delegation, but to lighten the structure, to use those hired on the ground with slightly lighter structures. In other Nordic countries there are models of this, Sweden is a good example where very small ones are present. That presence in itself is that Finland there. There are many dimensions, to which you referred, where the Finnish interest is also realised through interaction. It is not then a question of economic relations between countries, of political relations, but of mediation. Of course, the consulates, services and cultural cooperation, it expands, the visibility of Finland becomes quite different. This can be done with perhaps lighter structures than has been done so far, so that even with unlimited resources, this visibility of Finns and Finland abroad would be improved. I would encourage this and I understand that the Minister is seriously considering this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u422	Mr President! Mr Vallin made an excellent speech on development cooperation in the world and particularly in Africa. I myself think in such a way that, as far as the current development aid budget is concerned, it would be worth changing it precisely in the direction that Finland is choosing a particular country and going on to work at very different levels in that country, and when we are able to show that we have had an impact on a country and we are getting it in better shape, then at some point when it comes to thinking that we have reached the point that now they can continue on their own, then we can go to the next country. On the other hand, our reputation as such a good developmentist can travel even around Africa if in the future it is thought that one country after another. What you said, Mr Haavisto, that Finland cannot just go to a country, of course, is true. But now it is not a question of Finland, for example, having to work on development cooperation in a budgetary way, so that we go in a way to say that we want to come and finance even though your education budget and then we get some say that there is transparency in the administration and so on, but that there is a huge variety of ways in which we can work on development cooperation and then define to these partner organisations that, okay, your organisation will focus on, for example, this country, and then you will be involved in prioritising in the way that you can receive the funding that is now being sought. In other words, there are a huge number of tools and means, but at present, unfortunately, the Finnish aid is very ineffective. Evaluation is very difficult at the end of the game, and we do not have the efficiency to do that. On the other hand, I, too, have at my heart one country in Africa, where my own partner comes from, and where he would like to see things go well, and I know that the way in which Finland works in development cooperation is not just sustainable in the long term. I would like you, as Minister, to seriously consider that Finland should go ahead with ambitious development cooperation in such a way as to take on such a long-term plan and go further to reduce the land net to which the hand of Finland extends at the moment, to the very minimum, but make it the lowest possible, and so we can also be a guide in development cooperation for the rest of the world. I understand that, for example, we do not have access to money spent through the EU, which Finland is paying for and down the EU, or to money spent through the UNDP or the World Bank, until the system is changed, but there are many sectors in the development aid budget through which we could target a particular country and do the minimum but do the maximum and be effective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u423	Mr President! A few more questions came up. Representative Mäenpää, you raised concerns about the health effects of wind farms. This is something that has been raised to some extent in the last period, and some of the studies were then carried out — we have to go back to them and see if they are sufficient. Of course, planning and the regional plan always aim to direct wind power to areas where it would be as harmful as possible to other activities, such as industrial areas or other areas where there is little population. But it must, of course, ensure that they are in areas where there are no problems. Mr Sirén asked about this programme for the protection of bogs and how it was to be implemented. Well, just as in all nature conservation programmes, of course, it is a voluntary departure. Well, that's the rule when nature reserves are set up in our home. Either the State redeems them for itself, or we also have these private-owned nature reserves, where the ground remains privately owned, and then in part the State buys them for itself. Very rare are the cases that the state would be forced to expropriate such areas. The starting point is always to reach an agreement. Then there's the amount of this nature conservation money. The 100 million per year that is being invested in this four-year period consists of a permanent increase in the level of funding for nature conservation of 46 million and a total of 216 million, or 72 million, in one-off investments over three years. If it is calculated to be divided into four years, it is 54 million a year. This idea that we are now able to close this diversity debt with this one-off big investment: the type of nature reserve it is used for is even more specific in terms of the number of bogs, the number of forests, the number of other types of areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u424	Mr President! Thank you for the good speeches. Mr Kiljunen: This is precisely how we have shortcomings outside Africa, there are Central America, there are some large countries in Asia where we do not have representation, and of course we are trying to look at lighter structures with more resources, and it is my intention to look in this direction. It is good to have this debate with the Committee on Foreign Affairs on what Parliament has to say. Mr Tynkkynen has an excellent speech on how development cooperation should be directed. Again, I would remind you that this is the remit of my colleague, Minister Skinner, in this new government, but perhaps a few general ideas. It is probably a good idea to concentrate on certain countries. This has been done. After all, Africa has also reduced the number of countries where action is being taken, but then there will always be surprising new needs. Perhaps this is the role of NGOs: if we have friends in Sierra Leone in Finland, we cannot tell them to become friends with Ghana, but civil action is something that citizens freely set up and operate in the country they want. In a certain sense, these have also benefited from these contacts with non-governmental organisations, even in countries where there is no official representation. A Finnish may get into trouble, or there will be other things, there will be war, crisis situations, and then this vast NGO field, which works on a bit of a spontaneously sometimes, has also been of tremendous benefit to the ministry. I remember, for example, when there was this Finnfund project in Honduras, which unfortunately had to be interrupted. There was a conflict with the indigenous people, with the Lenca Indians, and then there was the murder of Berta Cáceres, a very dramatic situation. After all, the actors who were able to help it were Finnish and local NGO actors, and they were able to make the right contacts and influence them. This is a two-piped thing, which means that concentration alone is not worth it, but we have tried to put together projects both thematically, so that climate, the environment and the improvement of the position of women are made, and then larger packages per country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-12-ps-16.u425	Mr President! I understand very well that internal motivation is important in this development cooperation, and I do not deny it in any way. At the same time, however, it must be said that we are talking about huge sums of money. In other words, if we look at, for example, that country and regional development cooperation, its budget, and yet it is EUR 142 million, or the budgets of non-governmental organisations, or anything like that, it must be said that we must have the planning and the objective that it is really sustainable, because we could say in a way the same argument that you have just said, that it is good that if someone has motivation, then we can go somewhere to do something, with a huge number of other things, and that would always lead to a similar situation, that if we had one objective, then it would be fragmented into all-looking machining and then that effective achievement of the goal will never happen. That's why I think that the principle that we, Finland, decide that we want to do something effective like this, and then we openly tell people that hey, we really want to make change happen, and I believe that if people really want to help, if helping is that thing, then it's not that I can't go to help, if I have to go to Kenya to help, I'm going to help only if I can, for example, go to Mozambique. So I believe that if we guide people to this idea that working together in a particular area would be more effective, then yes to that people in the final games then will go along with it, but it's about this kind of bigger change of attitude. Right now, we're kind of... — Well, shouldn’t say this, but when it’s always said that electricity comes from plugs and money grows in wood, then we have in Finland, in a well-being society, a little like this mentality that if I just want to, then I can do and I can get the money for this. But we could be a little more grown-up in this development policy and say that that is our target — if you want to go there, it's just there. And the same would apply to the fact that if we were to negotiate something, such as quota refugees in the future more targeted and otherwise, these would also be connected, they would be from the country and then not from anywhere else. Of course, the work is good, but when we are talking about millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, then I do not think we can give priority to that machination argument and internal motivation in this debate.
