ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 February 2019. In the debate, Riitta Myller Silvia Modig has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 20 February 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Olli Immonen Action Kankaanniemi, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. In addition, in the debate Satu Hassi, supported by Silvia Modig, has made two proposals for statements, which have been distributed to the representatives on a multiplicity basis. There is still a proposal for a statement, supported by Action Kankaanniemi Sami Savio, which has also been distributed to the representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u3	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u5	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 February 2019. The debate has been supported by Ms Ihalainen Hanna Sarkkinen, who has raised objections to two motions for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u6	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u7	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. In the debate, Matti Semi Anders Adlercreutz has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Semi, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u8	The motion for rejection shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u9	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u10	A point of order 6 will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. In the debate, Lauri Ihalainen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u11	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. In the course of the debate, Mr Harakka, supported by Mr Pia Viitanen, has tabled three motions for statements, which are in line with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u12	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u13	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. Arja Juvonen, supported by Rami Lehdo, has tabled proposals 1 to 8, which have been distributed to the representatives. Silvia Modig, supported by Matti Sem, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives. In addition, Mikaela Nylander, supported by Veronica Rehn-Kive, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u14	Krista Mikkonen's proposal runs counter to Parliament's earlier decision at first reading, so it is no longer possible to vote on the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative KAA 3/2018 vp at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u15	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u16	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. In the debate, Silvia Modig Krista Mikkonen has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u17	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u18	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 17/2018 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 February 2019. With the support of Cloud Torsti Jukka Gustafsson, the debate has been followed by a proposal for an objection. In addition, Ritva Elomaa, supported by Sami Savio, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u19	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u20	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 35/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u21	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the citizens' initiative on the abolition of the necessary aid and aid for people with disabilities is at issue this time. Mr President! This citizens' initiative is based on the idea that tendering in accordance with procurement law is not an effective and sustainable way of organising services for people with disabilities, whether humanly or economically. At the same time, the inclusion of people with disabilities in decisions that have a significant impact on their lives is at risk. Moreover, the necessary remedies are not available in the absence of the relevant status. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the issues raised in this initiative to be important and timely. The problems arising from the initiative require effective regulation and socially and humanly sustainable policies. This citizens' initiative is an important opening-up to debate in order to safeguard the quality of services for people with disabilities. The starting point for the evaluation of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is the way in which the current Procurement Act regulates the matter, the way in which the Procurement Act enables the objectives of the citizens' initiative to be achieved and whether the initiative creates a need for legislative changes. The proposal provides for the exclusion of disability services from the public procurement and concessions law. Mr President! Although the current procurement law provides a wide range of means to safeguard the rights of persons with disabilities, this has not always been sufficiently achieved in the application of the law. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that this requires clearer and more comprehensive guidance and advice on the application of the law. The knowledge of the organisation of disability services must be promoted at national level. It is not just a question of knowing how to organise procurement law procedures; it is a question of choosing the right way to organise them: it can also be a non-procurement procedure in accordance with the procurement law. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considers it important to examine the adequacy of legal remedies. In the same context, the need to change the legislation on social and health services should be examined in order to ensure the quality and continuity of disability services. With regard to these aspects, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy makes a statement based on the draft opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but considers that this statement should be supplemented by an explicit reference to the need to amend legislation on social and health services and the guidelines on procurement. In addition, sufficient time should be reserved for the work of the working group to ensure the quality of legislative proposals. However, the proposals should be prepared without delay. This is the committee's proposal 1, which we will hear about later. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that the inclusion and self-determination of people with disabilities should be strengthened as part of the preparation of legislation on the self-determination of the customer and patient, and makes a statement in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Proposal 2 from the committee, which we will hear about later. It is also important for the equality of service providers and customers to ensure that competitive neutrality is realised. Legislation, its application and licensing and enforcement practices must be consistent and ensure both the quality of services and equal starting points for different service providers. This should also take into account the actual opportunities for smaller service providers to operate on an equal footing in the market. And on this point the committee's motion for a resolution 3. Mr President! The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament rejects the bill contained in the citizens' initiative and that Parliament approves three statements. And now let's go to those statements. 1st draft statement: ‘The Board of State shall appoint a group ofexperts to assess and prepare the necessary legislative changes in the decision on theparticipation and remedy of disabled persons. In addition, the expert group should examine the need for changes in social and health care services and procurement legislation, as well as related advice and guidance in order to develop the procurement of social and health services, including services falling under the responsibility of the Social Insurance Institution. The necessary legislative changes must be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible.” 2.Proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires that the right to self-determination and participation of disabled 3.Proposal for a statement: ‘The Board of State requiresthe Government to clarify and ensure that the conditions for the provision of disabledservices, such as It should also be noted that the proposal for a decision rejected by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is based on a procurement law, the content of which is defined by EU procurement directives. The key to this initiative is that EU procurement directives also define, from the perspective of disability services, the scope to which procurement law must apply. According to the Directive, contracts for social services and other specific services must be awarded in accordance with the competition rules and services for persons with disabilities are included in the services listed in the Annex. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has clarified that services for people with disabilities fall within the scope of the Procurement Directive and cannot therefore be excluded from the scope of the national procurement law. However, this does not imply the obligation to carry out services in the form of public procurement. Mr President! I used to think that citizens' initiatives had no meaning, but I was wrong. I was wrong. This bill has shown its strength: citizens have power if Parliament's legislative power does not see through stone walls the deep lines of the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u24	Let the Minister respond at this point. Please, five minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u25	Madam President! Thank you to the committee and the chairman To Mr Mölsä on the presentation of this matter and on the proper handling of this difficult matter. This citizens' initiative is to be commended for raising important questions about the way and quality of these services and also for raising awareness of what is at stake here. I myself have had a lot of discussions with organisations such as disabled people for a long time about these challenges that have been experienced in this procurement law, and then on the other hand about the organisation of these services, how to proceed in this work and, in a way, what is the right reason for whether it is a procurement law or whether it is a cause elsewhere? In any case, the users of the services and their loved ones must be consulted in the design of the services and then in the setting of quality standards. Although it is not always possible to live up to all the wishes now, I do believe that the good and careful organisation of things will enable these wishes to be better taken into account. In the ways in which services for the disabled are organised, the municipality has different options: own production, service voucher or purchase services purchased through competitive tendering. In fact, the municipality now needs to reflect more closely on the way in which it chooses to produce. It is good that this discussion also takes place with customers about the right way to organise these services. Also, when tendering for contracts, room can be given for the freedom of choice of customers. For example, when a framework arrangement is used, more alternative service providers can be chosen instead of one service, from which the customer can then choose what it wants. The Procurement Act also allows for individual direct procurement in such cases when there is a reason for it due to the customer’s life situation or other circumstances. This can be, for example, a care relationship between the client and the carer, such as the need for a patient with severe disabilities to use his or her own familiar care provider. This good way of purchasing is to listen to customers in the definition of the content of the service and to take due account of quality when setting these selection criteria. There is a clear record of this in the Procurement Act, and the buyer responsible for the definition of quality must take this into account. The Procurement Act already allows for very long contracts and a long-term, in practice, permanent care relationship. Thus, the law does not require the re-selection of services already competitive, but the procurement law requires that, in the case of social services, if the service is only to be competitive at the price, the contracting entity should then state how its quality has been taken into account and that obligation obliges all purchasers to thoroughly reflect on the value they place on the price as a criterion of choice. The implementation of quality standards shall be monitored throughout its contractual period. Municipalities have a lot of competitive know-how, but there is still a need for more information and good examples of successful, high-quality ways of working. And that is why it is excellent that next week we will be able to launch this kind of national training tour for all social welfare contractors and service providers. We have worked well with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health here, and this round is going around. Then we have a network of means that can be used. In my opinion, all this debate has gone in the right direction. Although it is proposed to reject this citizens' initiative, I believe that this citizens' initiative has done a great service to organisations with disabilities and also to the procurement law. Let us hope that this example shows that the citizens' initiative system is working and can be effective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u26	All right, let's take a few answers to this first, and from there, let's start with Mr. Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u27	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative for their good and meaningful work and, of course, also the disability organisations mentioned by the minister for their good cooperation during this process, both with regard to the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and now with regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. My own little sister has Down’s syndrome, and that’s how, of course, I’ve been able to see pretty close to the situation in Finland, for example, for mentally disabled people, and for the better in her life too, but there are still challenges. Above all, it has to do with the fact that we have about three hundred municipalities with up to 300 different solutions or attitudes. What if there were those 18 provinces? Can we get to the point where we can experience it? That too remains to be seen. However, according to this report, it is important to what the Committee on Social Affairs and Health calls for in its opinion and what the Minister pointed out: that municipalities would use more of that individual-based direct procurement in the procurement of services if it were particularly inappropriate for a person to switch to a service provider, as stated here. These are the situations in which, as I understand it, disability organisations have also wanted to intervene, and I am pleased that this report is unanimous. This development, to which the report refers, is the broad support of this Parliament for all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u28	Madam President! I would also like to join in the thanks not only to the citizens' initiative makers, but also to the organisations of people with disabilities. The opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was unanimous and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also received a good report with these binding positions. I would like to believe that through these efforts and, in particular, through the establishment of this working group of experts, we will now actually be able to tackle the real problems that we have at present had to do with the competition for life-long services for people with disabilities. Of course, the debate on services for the elderly is also quite well reflected in these types of issues that have arisen. This debate has well highlighted how services can be organised in their own production and service vouchers, and then competitions and quality criteria will be introduced and these will be the case. Perhaps I would also like to raise this so-called'sgei', that is, services of general economic interest and this distinction, that we should also be able, from the point of view of EU law, to look at the hint that they are not the kind of services that should necessarily be competitive at all. Here, the Minister did also very well highlight issues such as the client's disability and the specific needs that may be left behind. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u29	So one minute is the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u30	Mr President! When it comes to housing services, people talk about the homes of people. None of us would like to agree to the way in which competitions are currently carried out in the case of people with disabilities when choosing a home. Do you think it would help to internalise the matter if we talked about community homes rather than housing units? The most inhumane thing is that because of repeated competitions, some disabled people are forced to move out of their homes and at the same time break up many important relationships. It is good to be aware that even the procurement law does not require, for example, re-competition in housing services, but it still does not seem sufficiently understandable and has not been internalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u31	Madam President! I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, that it is particularly important for people with disabilities that they have permanent relationships and that it is their home. And all the measures that separate this permanent home and permanent care may seriously reverse the situation. But I would ask the Minister: in what way will quality be defined in the future, who is doing what quality work? Will there be a register, or in what way, as it were, can these quality criteria be established on the basis of a general view? That is not the case, but that the quality criteria are defined in tenders and in practice everyone gets the full score.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u32	Madam President! Special thanks to the authors and signatories of the initiative — more than 72,000 signatures received and need to be fully understood. I myself have been working with the elderly for years and I know the situation and I know that it is home to the people who live there. It could be a group home, for example, and that's what I worked for. I am from Espoo and in 2016 I made the question of the Board of Governors related to the competence of tendering. How, Minister, would you convey that message to those municipalities and regions, cities, how is it possible to use that procurement law in these competitive situations and actually go ahead of the quality tip? It is not always necessary to buy the cheapest one, and I would see that it should be the last option to compete in these housing services for people with disabilities. It is important that continuity and permanence remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u33	Mr President! This is an important issue for the disabled. However, I stayed to think about things like this, which is related to the fact that when a disabled person takes a personal assistant, he becomes an employer and he becomes the employer’s obligation to do so. On the other hand, this has happened when there is this organized employer, that if this disabled person organizes himself into this Heta, i.e. the employers' association of personal assistants, then the municipality will have to pay this personal assistant a salary in accordance with TES, but if the disabled person is not organised, then the municipality can use other collective agreements and thus underpaid such assistants. I would like to ask the Minister whether there has been any attention to this kind of thing, how to make these municipalities sort of work that way,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u34	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is extremely important, as we have all said, and disability issues are, to a very large extent, human rights issues. Therefore, they must also be viewed with that seriousness. It is a good thing that the Procurement Act does not force you to look at the price alone. But when we know the economic situation of municipalities in Finland and we also know that there will be no quick profits for potential future regions on the economic side, even if it is possible to make competitive tenders so that the price criterion does not overemphasize, I am afraid that the price criterion will continue to be emphasised if it is not strictly addressed. The need to justify separately the use of the price as a primary criterion or even the over-weighting of the price is not necessarily enough, because my experience with the municipal world reminds me that municipalities will come up with those arguments when they have to. And we're gonna get that funding again. I would like the Minister to open up further how we genuinely ensure that housing services for people with disabilities are secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u35	Madam President! The essential services, benefits and also home for disabled people of their lifetime are such that a model needs to be found for them that, for example, every five years, you do not have to compete with the closest support staff involved in life. It is valuable that citizens' initiatives can change Finland in a more humane direction, and thanks to disability organisations, initiative makers and also the committee for their good work. Here, once again, is another indication that these efforts often take these citizens' initiatives in the direction that people have hoped for. Life-long services must be provided so that people can live in their homes for as long as possible. The price and quality we have been talking about today are these valuable factors in the tendering process, but so are man's own wishes, and then, of course, the service voucher is an excellent purchasing model for man that he can also make his own choices with his loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u36	Madam President! In 1918, MP Antti Rentola spoke on the issue of the form of government that there is a clear sobering up of this Finnish republican system. He spoke to those who might have disagreed. I am pleased that Mr Mölsä, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, also took a position on this aspect of the citizens' initiative. It may be said that perhaps even within the framework of our whole Parliament there has been a certain degree of sobering up towards this whole system of citizens' initiatives. It has undoubtedly become part of Finnish democracy. Let us vote for it, move it forward, and then Parliament will be able to assess what initiatives are in place, as is the case with this issue. Indeed, it is about people with disabilities who need more services than we do, including human dignity and human rights. This means, of course, that, even in the context of procurement decisions, opinions are also sought from, for example, the Councils for the disabled or the elderly in different municipalities in order to be consulted in order to obtain information on the views of the users of their services on each question. It is not always about money, it is about how things are done, and in this respect it is always good for decision-makers to listen to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u37	Madam President! I would like to express my joy at the fact that the principles of this initiative will be fulfilled. That must be the case. It's just and it's the only right way. I would also like to express my hat on the ingenuity which, for example, has been the work of the author of the initiative, Markku Virutmäki, and these organisations for many years, when they tell us about this problem and talk about it extensively. It's a really great thing, and I really appreciate it. The last time I received a lovely greeting from the people of Tampere, OmaPulu, who officially brought this all the way to Parliament, and together we said that the initiative will certainly move forward in a positive spirit. So, President, in this speech I would just like to say that this is an important day and it is also important to ensure that this goes to the end. And we have been talking about resources, for example: we have to take care of them, we have an obligation to ensure that human dignity is not put above human dignity and that there are resources available to care for our disabled, our elderly people in a decent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u38	Mr President! I would like to warmly thank the citizens' initiative and the disability organisations for this important work, that the abuse of the disabled in care services has now become visible. The Minister made a good speech about the fact that the procurement law does not require tendering, since services for people with disabilities are very sensitive to every day-to-day services from people who secure its good and safe everyday life, and they are so essential for warmth and continuity. But now that we have constantly had these problems, it is clear that current practice cannot continue as it is. It is very good that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made these three important contributions which will enable the work to continue with the united strong will of this Parliament. So I ask you, Minister: will you be able to start the work and studies of the working groups in these positions at once?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u39	Mr President! I, too, would like to warmly thank the authors of the initiative and at the same time say that it is, of course, sad that such a citizens' initiative has even had to be taken in the first place. Is it not wrong that, in a civilized welfare society, the most disadvantaged people have to fight for their own human rights and not that their human rights are first safeguarded? Every week there are some shortcomings: now a week ago, the information on the competition for physiotherapies for disabled people and earlier, for example, the disaster of deaf interpretation services, which has also been complained to the Chancellor of Justice. It is, of course, excellent that now we all agree that repairs must be made — after thousands of people have been ruined and insecurity and uncertainty have increased. The future government will be allowed to correct the mistakes of the government, but the big challenge here is whether we can change our thinking that the most vulnerable Finns will not be the victims of this market model. This is a big challenge not only for the going, but also for the future government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u40	Madam President! I can join Mr Viitanen in thanking these groups for this; in particular, the name of Markku Virtmäki has come up. Very tough work, and it is great that we have dealt with this now under this government. In fact, there are two aspects: It was quite clear that there is a difference between the interpretation of the law and the way in which the law is implemented in the field. Especially in the implementation of this procurement law, of course in those ponies: municipalities and cities should look at the best way to implement it. The second issue that arose was the interpretation of the public and private aspects, such as those in the size of the property, so that, if there is a public side, a private operator cannot operate in the same premises under the same conditions. This one's been taken into account there, too. Let us hope that these matters, which are at the root of the current law, will be interpreted from the point of view of what is good for the customer — and in this respect for the disabled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u41	Mr President! I would also like, on behalf of my own and the Socialist Group in Parliament, to thank the authors of this initiative. They've done a huge job in that wind and snort. I myself have met and met many times in that market in Vantaa. I would also like to express my thanks to the committee for the fact that this work was not wasted once and for all, but it is a good sign that it is possible in this Parliament in a valuable way to deal with citizens' initiatives so that they can be taken forward. We have several examples. It is a good thing that although the discussion of the second-degree free-of-charge initiative was somewhat different, this initiative, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, now found common positions. It is important that the right to self-determination, which is at the heart of human rights and human dignity, is guaranteed to everyone regardless of their own background or opportunities. That is why it is important that the work now, along these lines, moves forward immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u42	Madam President! I too would like to express my great thanks to those who have initiated this initiative and to all those who are doing valuable, hard work for the well-being of people with disabilities, and in the same breath to say that it has been scandalous to hear the many news and to hear from the field about the many situations and the many events that have taken place, the way in which people with disabilities have been dealt with, the great shortcomings there have been. But let us hope that this will be improved and changed most quickly, because there is a lot of potential for people with disabilities, and there are a lot of things there about how they can work better and live in society. The right to self-determination and inclusion of people with disabilities must be strengthened and, as has been said in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have been discussing this issue for a long time, and then, fortunately, the decisions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy came up with these statements, which also set up this group of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u43	Mr Strand and then the minister for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u44	Mr President, värderade talman! Jag vill också själv passa på att tacka initialitivtagarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u45	Madam President! Thanks for the feedback. This is an indication that this house is able not to argue, and it has been wonderful to see that it is unanimous. Although it is proposed to reject, this matter is moving forward. That is something to be pleased about. In fact, there are quite a number of speakers here, such as Mr Eestilä and Mr Juvonen, who raised this point in a way, how, in the future, these criteria will now be defined and how this knowledge of competition and information will go to the municipalities. I have already said that, in fact, on 6 March, there will be a national training round, which will then go through all this in detail, which relates to how and under what conditions a good, high-quality purchase can be made. We have many good examples of municipalities where this can be done, but there are also municipalities where skills are still lacking. Often it may be that the contracting entity can be one person, and there may not be such a crowd doing that. Let us disseminate these good practices and then, of course, follow up on the experience gained from this. And, of course, this mere price and staring at it is where that knowledge is needed. The old wisdom that a poor person should not buy cheap is pretty good at this. Often it can become much more expensive and, above all, it is humanly wrong. You have to be able to see beyond that. The mere price, as I said, must not be defined, but if it is, it must then be possible to open it up and justify where the quality is. It is now quite impossible, of course, at this stage to say in detail how that criterion will be developed in the future. This will probably take years before we have good practices, and it is precisely these networks and this round that will be responsible for disseminating that information and knowledge. And as I said when the procurement law came, we have set up a network of means for that purpose, not an agency anywhere, but a body to ask for instructions on how to compete with. That's it. That's it. That's it. We also listen to our customers so that their customers are involved. I therefore believe that when the whole process is in hand, then this will go in the right direction, and then we will be at what has been claimed here. Here, too, Mr Karimäki asked how quickly these processes can be started. Well, of course this is not just the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. We have the Procurement Act, but then there are laws on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health relating to disability services in general, and of course I do not know how to answer them. But, as I said, we have good cooperation with the STM and we are constantly having discussions, and in fact this round, which is being carried out, is working with them because there are both sides of these issues. It is the case that it will be the next government, which will then assess the whole of it in general, and it will then also take into account what needs to be taken into account in the needs of the reform of disability services and its relationship with this procurement law. I think this is going to be good when we go to fix this. In my opinion, the significance of this citizens' initiative has been that, at the beginning, it was, as it were, looking for a reason why the procurement law is the problem here, and through numerous discussions and proper feedback we have come to the conclusion that we have found a way out of this, and I think it has been valuable. This has at no time been a cry out, but a very proper discussion and an example of how these things should go. In other words, to sum up: to disseminate this competence, to make rounds, to share with others good practices that already exist in municipalities. I think, and in fact I am sure, that this will be a good, functional whole so that people with disabilities will receive the service that belongs to them in a humane way, and then, of course, we will also talk about human dignity and all these important things. Representative Harakka asked why this had to be corrected in this way. On the other hand, we agree entirely, but it is a good thing that this citizens' initiative showed that it did not go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u46	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u47	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Minister! This is therefore a citizens' initiative to stop the necessary aid and support for people with disabilities from being competitive. The citizens have used the most powerful weapon they have to make their voices heard in Parliament, and that is the citizens' initiative. Thanks to those who took the initiative and all the signatories, there were over 72,000. We in the opposition have an intermediate issue here, the citizens have a citizens' initiative, and it is great that here in Parliament we are discussing citizens' initiatives with all due respect and respect, bringing them here to the Chamber for discussion, for debate and for the committees to draw up a report on them. The key message behind this citizens' initiative is that competitive tendering is not a viable way of providing vital, life-long services for people with disabilities, and that is what we also said in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which gave its opinion to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. According to the authors of the initiative, services provided by people with disabilities in the form of public procurement and thus through competitive tendering have often proved to be unsuited to the needs of the users of the services, or even insufficient. Customers feel that they have not been properly consulted in the design of services and in the preparation of calls for tender, and the authors of the initiative also felt that the purchase of services would increase the price at the expense of quality and that the services purchased did not meet the needs of the service users. The explanatory memorandum to the initiative stressed that disabled people should have the right to choose their own place of residence and that, as a result of the tendering procedure, they do not have any involvement or legal remedies in the organisation of matters relating to themselves, and that is exactly what it is, and despite the fact that we have a lot of international and national legislation, these people have felt that they have not been sufficiently consulted. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities aims to guarantee people with disabilities fully and equally all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for the dignity of persons with disabilities. According to the Constitution, the public authorities must ensure adequate social and health services for everyone according to the law. The general and special legislation on social services imposes an obligation to take account of the interests and needs of the customer and to participate, advise, guide and consult the customer, and the disability services Act requires that the provision of disability services takes into account the needs of the municipality and the individual needs of the customer. We always ask ourselves, when we have that EU, whether it is good or bad. Well, of course, here we could say that this EU procurement directive is a little regulated, too, because the EU procurement directive, which we must also respect, does not allow disability services to be excluded from the scope of the procurement law. And this is, of course, the basis for the opinion of our Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which is to say that we went to look for other solutions as to how we can also give the initiators the feeling that they have been consulted. It is true that when the answer says that the initiative has been rejected, it sounds rather hard and bad, that is, in the sense that we are looking for other solutions that we bring up through statements, for example, the state of will, what we really want and demand. And as the Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has said here, it is clear that the necessary legislative changes will be presented in the future and Parliament will require that the autonomy and inclusion of people with disabilities be strengthened as part of the preparation of the legislation on customer and patient self-determination, and these are very strong messages which the committees will then send. Mr President! Indeed, we could go ahead of the quality tip in these competitive situations. Minister, you wisely said: ‘You can’t buy cheap’and so. But there is often fear in the municipalities. Anyone who does this competitive bidding thinks that it is always the cheapest one to choose, the price will decide, because otherwise there will be a market court there, and that is something they want to avoid until the last. But often it is this way that the cheapest is not the best. It is important to include good procurement practices and selection criteria in the decision-making process, and it is great that a national round of municipalities will take place in March, which will also cover these issues. As Espoo City Councillor in 2016, I asked the council question in my municipality of residence how we are to be competitive, and this is also one way for municipal councillors to go to their own municipalities and ask them how the procurement issues in their own municipality are implemented. Madam President! I have been working in the services of the elderly for years, and the elderly people in particular were just the ones I was treating, and I saw and experienced how important and important it is to have continuity in matters: continuity in relationships, continuity in being the same nurse, familiar face, familiar voice, familiar way of doing those jobs every day there and also that home, food, stimulation, everything, stays the same. Then, when changes and changes come, they are very comprehensive and they break the life of the resident — that person, the disabled person — who is there in his own home, as well as the lives of those close to them. I myself have received a lot of messages from those who are very close to me when these calls have been made and it has been found that things are not going as they should be, and then the fact that the family is very sad and sad and the treatment is coming up, which is precisely the fact that you are grieving and worrying for someone close to you in these matters. It is extremely important that we also choose other ways. We do not have to compete, as has been said here, with a service voucher. I would also hope that, if this social reform comes and arrives one day, if we can bring it into force, it will also be very important to take account of the fact that the voice of people with disabilities is heard there. With these words I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative and I think it is important that this is here in the debate, and I very much welcome our response. Although it is said that the citizens' initiative will be rejected, the voices of the citizens' initiative makers and the people to whom this is very important have been heard, and we are here to make an important contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u48	Mr President! The citizens' initiative, not for sale, wants to secure the life-long services of the most vulnerable people with disabilities. Continuity is needed and therefore their claim to compete must be abandoned. The parliamentary committees unanimously decided on a solution to initiate studies to achieve this objective. Work will be carried out to strengthen the inclusion, self-determination and redress of people with disabilities. The need for changes in procurement legislation and advice will also be investigated. It is clear that more effective procurement management alone will not solve the serious problems raised by the citizens' initiative. People with disabilities have experienced unacceptable abuse in nursing homes. Services have been under-resourced and human resources are insufficient. This is what happens when the cheapest price is determined and quality is not weighted. This cannot be the case. This has to change. Every disabled person needs services that suit his or her life. It is important that the disability not only determines services but also individual needs. For people with disabilities, it is important that the services that support them enable a good life, everyday life and inclusion. Services must also ensure accessibility and enable participation in work and hobbies. The status of disabled children must be guaranteed by law. The institutional housing of disabled children has increased. The reason for this is insufficient services for families. Families do not receive enough support and services to be taken home. The child’s place is not in an institution, and that is why families need support for everyday life. For those who cannot, for one reason or another, live in their homes, domestic nursing homes are needed instead of institutions. Every severely disabled person must have an assistant for daily routines — clothing, eating, exercise, washing, hobbies, work and studies — and the views and wishes of the disabled and his/her loved ones for services must be listened to. The law also requires support for decision-making for a disabled person who needs help in decision-making on the big issues of life. The most vulnerable, those in need of life-long housing services, need familiar nurses and a familiar environment. It is not sustainable every few years to compete with a service provider, when the nurses and their own home change overnight. I hope that the work of the working group will lead to the registration of the procurement law so that there is no need for competitive tendering for the essential services of vulnerable people with disabilities. A personal budget for the disabled may be the solution, but it must also be ensured that the budget covers all individual needs. The budget must be flexible and large enough. Necessary care and care is important, as is the association, community, and warmth of people. When a disabled young person wants to become independent and move into his/her own home, it is important to enable communal living. You can live like a home, but you can live together. Shared food, coffee and game moments in shared space bring joy for days. Good services for people with disabilities also necessarily include transport services. They make it possible to be involved. Their limitation undermines human rights. It's been a pleasure. Protector of the Citizens' Initiative, not for sale. Human rights are not for sale. The tendering procedure returns in the imagination to the auction age, when the householders offered the municipality care at the lowest cost to those who screamed. The last auction was held in 1935. It's time to put a stop to today's auction market. The Greens support the citizens' initiative, which was signed by 72059 people. In the parliamentary procedure, a solution was reached in which the inquiry and processing of the matter will proceed to the next Parliament. This will continue to be followed up. I'll continue to protect you. The follow-up to the Not for Sale initiative with all my heart. Thank you again to all those who have made and signed the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u50	Mr President! Minister! I am very pleased with everyone else that we are now dealing with the issues of services for people with disabilities and the status and future of people with disabilities — people who often do not have the voice of their own in society, who are often in a very vulnerable position. The "no for sale" campaign initiative was important in this respect, and the message was clear: competition is not suitable for the core services of people with disabilities, there is room for improvement in the legal protection of people with disabilities, there is insufficient consultation of people with disabilities in matters relating to them, and attention was paid in particular to housing services. After all, the unanimous report before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is based on the good groundwork of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for which it was easy to make this report. Without the citizens' initiative, over 70,000 names, we would not be dealing with this issue here today. So the citizens' initiative is important, and that is important for us to say. Although the procurement law, as the Minister has well described and described in this explanatory statement of the report, is not the main way to resolve this issue, the right way has been found here to address these problems and to take corrective action. I am not going to go on a separate list of the three driving forces involved in this report, because they have been mentioned here, but they are very important: these further preparations must be carried out as quickly as possible and in cooperation with the promoters and the organisations of people with disabilities. But then I would like to raise something that we have not yet talked about, and that is that people with disabilities should also have better access to the labour market. There are many companies and working communities that have taken responsibility for society and have started that people with disabilities also have a place in Finnish working life — everyone is involved. Disabled people are highly motivated workers in working life. They should not have a glass ceiling for accessing the labour market simply because they are disabled and it is not charity either, because it enriches working communities and brings different skills to Finnish working life. By way of authorisation, access to the labour market for the part-time and disabled also improves our employment rate. However, the Procurement Act, to which reference has been made, already offers the possibility of taking social criteria into account in the award of contract terms. In this respect, for example, when contracts are concluded, the conditions for the inclusion of people with disabilities, the long-term unemployed or those who are partially able to work may be laid down, and this possibility — how I would put it nicely — is not yet sufficiently or well known or willing to use. Finally, I would also like to call on the social partners to take the position and the rules of play of people with disabilities and those with disabilities in working life in order to offer people with disabilities the opportunity to work equally in Finnish working life and to make their contribution to the construction of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u51	Mr President! Thank you for this citizens' initiative. We are now at the heart of equal rights for citizens. Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2016, but still Finland is not delivering in accordance with this Convention. Weaknesses exist in terms of housing, inclusion, work and work for disabled people, and also in terms of income. More generally, we have a problem with the fact that the involvement of people with disabilities in decision-making concerning them has not been adequately ensured. The continuity of services has not been ensured and users of services do not have sufficient legal remedies to appeal against decisions taken. In particular, this citizens' initiative addresses one important problem, namely the need for the assistance and support of people with disabilities to be competitive. The initiative proposes that an area-limiting clause be added to the public procurement law, the idea being that the law does not apply to the provision of services for the disabled in the provision of services related to the needs and needs of persons with disabilities in housing and everyday life. In this context, I would also like to point out that memory disorders are also part of neurological disability diseases by international definition, i.e. the same restriction would apply to the housing of people with memory disorders. The initiative is based on the idea that tendering in accordance with procurement law is neither effective nor sustainable in human or economic terms for the provision of services for people with disabilities. When it comes to housing services, people talk about the homes of people. None of us would like to agree to the way in which competitions are currently carried out in the case of people with disabilities when choosing a home. In my previous debate, I suggested whether we could rather talk about community homes than, for example, housing units. Community homes include group homes, different care homes and family care homes. The most inhumane thing is that, due to repeated competitions, some people with disabilities will have to reluctantly move out of their homes and at the same time break up many relationships. It is good to be aware that even the Procurement Act does not require, for example, re-competitiveness of the service for persons already placed in housing services, but this still does not seem sufficiently understandable. Hopefully, the round of municipalities starting in March will provide more information and understanding on this issue. The most important thing is to find the best community home for every disabled person in terms of his or her needs. A person himself should be in charge of this matter. In some cases, the right to self-determination can also be realised through, for example, supported decision-making. On the other hand, if a person cannot or does not even want to choose by means of supported decision-making, then other ways of choosing services will also have to be considered. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stressed that the current range of procurement law instruments is not sufficiently used to meet the specific needs of disability services. After all, the Procurement Act itself does not put obstacles in the way of providing quality services and safeguarding the position of people with disabilities, and the choice of means of procurement legislation to achieve the quality of services is quite wide. However, these means are not being used enough and it is still being said that it is the price that must be stressed most, although this is not true. There are therefore many shortcomings in the application of the procurement law and the necessary guidance and advice, and it is good that now, in March, we are going to provide the right information and information to the municipalities. The Procurement Act does not specify the quality and price of the contract. The contracting entity may also make access to the tender comparison conditional on the quality requirements it wishes to meet. There is also a need to increase customer participation and engagement at all stages of the procurement process – planning, implementation and also monitoring. For example: The Memory Federation has developed a set of criteria for good care, which makes it easy to assess whether the care community is suitable as a community home for people with memory disorders and whether the activities in the community home are of sufficient quality. Mr President! To this end, I would like to say that there are shortcomings not only in housing services but also in other services for the disabled. There have been many problems with interpretation services, for example, and there have also been many shortcomings with regard to transport services in recent times. The message of disability organisations is that the freedom of movement of people with disabilities has been compromised by the new law on transport services. This has happened particularly in rural areas, and there are major problems with access to accessible cars in particular. The removal of the duty to take part in emergency services resulted in no more cars available around the clock. The safety of rides and the professional skills of drivers have also been a source of great concern for disabled people. In conclusion, although we have ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, people with disabilities are still not in an equal position with other citizens in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u52	Madam President! This is how it is that human life cannot be for sale. Disability services cannot be awarded in the same way as other purchases because they are simply essential services and relationships for the whole life, as well as their own home. Once again, I would like to thank the more than 72000 signatories to this citizens' initiative and, at the same time, I would also like to thank Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for their good handling of this initiative. It made three statements to improve the organisation of services for people with disabilities and to make progress with the aim of this initiative. Although the framework conditions of procurement legislation are such that services for disabled people cannot be excluded from the scope of procurement law, this does not prejudice the way in which services are organised. Similarly, EU procurement legislation does not define how Member States organise their disability services. The municipality can provide disability services itself, they can be purchased from an external service provider or they can be arranged through, for example, a customer voucher or a personal budget. So we do not have to compete for life-long services for people with disabilities. It is also worth noting here that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has called on the government to appoint an expert group to bring to Parliament legislative changes to ensure the inclusion and legal remedies of people with disabilities in their decision-making and to prepare the necessary legislative changes to both the social welfare and the procurement law. I think this is a good thing. At present, the range of means provided by the Procurement Act does not take sufficient account of the specific needs of disability services. The Procurement Act regulates practices, but it does not provide for the quality and price to be obtained. The municipality can produce disability services itself, they can be purchased or arranged through a personal budget, but even if you end up in competition, the quality of the service can be promoted. For example, the municipality’s contracting entity may set the quality requirements it wishes to apply to the comparison of tenders as an absolute condition for access, i.e. to exclude already low-quality service providers at the tendering stage. Contract terms should be designed with sufficient flexibility. The extent to which service needs can be assessed over a changing period of time should also be highlighted already at the tendering stage. This will help to ensure continuity of services and to meet the actual service needs of the contract. For this life-long essential service, careful planning and preparation of the procurement process is important. It requires purchasing skills. In practice, many criteria relating to the provision of services for disabled people are difficult to predetermine and the use of competition is not a problem. The acquisition of disability services emphasises the importance of procurement competence, guidance and counselling. However, good procurement does not solve the main shortcomings of the tendering procedure, i.e. the lack of influence of people with disabilities on how to compete in their services. It is therefore important that the quality of procurement skills can be raised to an even higher level than it is at present, and therefore services of a life-long nature for people with disabilities should in principle be organised in such a way that they do not need to be competitive but can be purchased on the basis of quality requirements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u53	Madam President! First of all, of course, I thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and my fellow Members for having been able to make a unanimous statement on such an important issue, and thank you also for the work that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done on this issue, but in particular, thank you very much to the citizens' initiative makers, to the more than 72,000 people who have expressed this will and contributed to the fact that we are here today, here and now. But there are still many problems and, of course, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr President, it must be said that when we talk about fundamental rights when we talk about equality, especially in this regard, the individual's point of view, the weaker one, is what matters. This work has also been carried out by the Constitutional Committee in recent weeks with dedication in relation to the reform of the social and health sector in general and the risks it poses. Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches here about the contributions made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, but I would like to say that the problems of this procurement law, the reform of the procurement law in 2017 and the implementation of the 2007 EU directive which preceded it, as the Minister well knows, may not have gone as it should have been. And hindsight is not the right wisdom here, but it must be said that in the future Finland must be more careful about how and how we implement European law in this country. But if we go into these practical matters, then Mr Ihalainen quite rightly raised the practical problem of access to employment for people with disabilities and, in general, how to get a job, accumulate pension and be part of the Finnish welfare state and social security system. This is a big deal. I hope — and I am actually appealing to the Council of State — that this group of experts will actually be moving quickly now, because the autumn is coming quickly. We must ensure that the work of the working group is progressed in such a way that when an expert group starts to study the procurement legislation of social welfare and health services, the related advice, guidance, including the services for the organisation of the Social Insurance Institution for the development of procurement, something is actually happening here. Furthermore, I would like to remind you in general that if and when we are making legislation in this house, it must be respected, and that is why the provision of legal control, just as we have spoken about the elderly, is even more important in this area. We must have sufficient resources for monitoring legality, and especially if and when the law enforcement points out something, we must react to these matters and correct them. In fact, the Constitutional Committee has already stated in its previous guidelines on fundamental rights and adequate funding for social and health services that budgetary restrictions should not jeopardise the fundamental rights of Finns. This is where disability services are concerned. With this, of course, I would like to send a message to those municipalities, to those cities where policies are currently taking place that may jeopardise or have already jeopardised the rights of people with disabilities. Budget restrictions must therefore not limit the fundamental rights of Finns, especially those who are at the most vulnerable. And by adding to this the government incentive system, the bonus system which now encourages municipalities to cut social and health costs so that they can receive more money, Mr President, in the next decade, it will unfortunately also put pressure on those services that are legal. This must not happen in Finland, this must not happen in any welfare state, and it is not even in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u54	Madam President! This acquisition and the related competition law as a whole have proved to be quite difficult in certain situations over the decades. When this involves the possibility of appeal to these decisions, the Market Court will deal with complaints, it will easily create situations that were probably not originally thought of. From the outset, the law has left the situation in Central Europe, where there was a suspicion that there was more corruption behind the administrative decisions than we fortunately have here in Scandinavia or Finland in general — hopefully there will be no future. However, when Mr Juvonen mentioned this problem of legislation here, this was dealt with by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy seven to eight years ago, and it was stated that this competition for long-term services for people with disabilities was difficult to manage. Well, in my opinion, there is quite a lot to blame here for the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which is a municipal lobbying and training organisation. There is no particular emphasis on the fact that competition for different products or services differs in many ways. In the case of products, quality can often be objectively defined, or there are unambiguous indicators on the basis of which quality can be assessed. For decades, the general view has been that the customer is the best service quality assessor. It is hardly used on this part of the municipality, which in practice means that these customers of long-term housing services have not been entitled and in a position of influence when choosing a service for them, but have been interpreted according to this quality-mindedness of goods, in which case the buyer will also make an assessment of quality. As a result, in some cases, time has come to inhumane results. The holder of the post in fear of the Market Court has used his own quality assessment and price when, afterwards, the offer cannot be dealt with in a very material way. However, even now the law has the potential to take more account of individual quality and the customer’s viewpoint, and although in this case the customer may not always be fully able to judge, it still does not deprive him of that right, it simply passes on to his representative, ultimately to the guardian. In other words, this law has needed this citizens' initiative in order for this to be corrected here, well done. True, a personal 40 - year experience of my retarded brother encourages the completion of this matter. The damage has already come to an end. Even the procedure to date could have been much more effective in taking account of the customer's point of view, and these unnecessary changes of place of residence are always burdensome for these people, unless they themselves wish for one reason or another, which are very individual. As far as I am concerned, I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its unanimous approach. This reflection has led to a valuable view which should lead to legislative changes, as has already been done in many other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u55	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the activists and signatories of this citizens' initiative on my own behalf. The message of the initiative is very clear: Competition is not suitable for services for people with disabilities, and the services of people with disabilities and legal protection need to be improved. The disabled need to be clearly consulted on issues relating to them. Three statements have now been concluded through careful committee reading, which, if implemented, will bring the spirit of the citizens' initiative to a practical life. The expert group shall prepare legislative changes to ensure the inclusion and access to justice of persons with disabilities in the decision-making process. The right to self-determination will be strengthened and coherence in decision-making and supervisory practices will be sought in order to ensure equality between service users and equal conditions of competition for service providers. Among other things, there is a need for reform of the legislation on disability services, and the future government must very quickly take the necessary changes to the agenda. There is a need for fairness in the services of people with disabilities. That's our job. However, as Mr Ihalainen said in his own speech, it is equally important for people with disabilities to look for and consider ways of better employment opportunities. I do not believe that society can afford to leave them unemployable because of attitudes and prejudice. The existing Procurement Act allows social criteria for decisions and contracts. In the contract terms, it can be recorded that the job search takes into account people with part-time and disability in particular. It's about will. It is also a question of will when statements are made by the next government — hopefully as soon as possible at the beginning of the parliamentary term, because I dare to think that the spirit of this citizens' initiative will also be monitored very closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u56	Madam President! As I have already said in the debate, once again thank the authors for their guts, and indeed also thank this Parliament and its committees for their serious commitment to taking the matter forward. When we spoke about this timetable, I would, of course, see for myself that, now that there is a clear will of the Parliament — absolutely unanimous — the ministries are already preparing for the measures which will enable the new government, as soon as possible, also to put into effect all the measures that we need to implement this important initiative. Here I think Mr Harakka quite wisely said at the beginning of his own speech that, if everything were to work as it should, of course, such a citizens' initiative would not even be necessary, because these problems would not exist. But since we have known these problems for years, it was important to note how this citizens' initiative has now actually contributed to the fact that everyone is simply aware of the collective responsibility for making progress on this. I believe, Mr President, that this is not only an important issue, but also a certain basis of value, which is something that we often think about today in this House, namely what human dignity is in relation to, for example, the pursuit of profit and these unfortunate phenomena that we have encountered today, both here on the services of the disabled and on the care of the elderly. In other words, when the so-called mere pursuit of profit or money or price determines, too often we have seen very undesirable things ahead of us. I therefore believe that now, if it is the time for us to have a wide-ranging, value-based debate in this society about what we should be able to afford in a civilised society — and how we will be able to carry out our honours, that we will really take care of our weakest. It is a sign of a civilized society, and it must be seen. Often, in such a market society, where we live, things have been different. That is why I think it is important that the spirit of this initiative, and the practical steps taken, also go forward in reality and in concrete terms. It's gonna take a lot of money, as long as we're here. It requires resources, it requires resources from the state, it requires municipalities. And it is quite right that a certain amount of concern has been expressed about the fact that if there is not enough of that resource at municipal or executive level, then it is far too much to say, even if you try to say what, in fact some price criterion is able to determine the purchase, and that is obviously not right, but it is quality that is important. President! To this end, I would like to underline what Mr Ihalainen started and, among other things, Mr Taimela here just now, that it is also important for livelihoods that people with disabilities and disabilities have the right opportunity to work for a job that would receive the right pay, and that is not just work. It is very good that Mr Ihalainen, among other things, called on these social partners to take account of the opportunities of those who are able to work part-time. For example, I know that this NEO-OmaPolku in Tampere, which I mentioned, has set up a cooperative, which has allowed these young people to have the right opportunity to work and also to be paid for it. This is certainly the wish of many that, while there is work capacity, willingness to work, enthusiasm and knowledge, these opportunities would also be given to people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u57	Mr President! How do you compete with a baby with a warm lap? This is what I was asked by an official working with children when Hämeenlinna, my own home town, moved to the buyer-producer model. That model was abandoned because there was no valid answer to that question, but we found that in many, many things still go ahead of the price and do not get the quality that would be desired. Today, you might well ask how to get a good and permanent home for a disabled person. Price and quality, both of them, and we are forced to be price conscious because the tax euros of the welfare state are limited, but we are not a genuinely welfare state if we go just ahead of money, but quality really matters. It sometimes comes to mind how this happened, when quality was forgotten, lost, drowned, and in so many municipalities a mere price became king. And, in fact, the citizens' initiative makers, who deserve a big thank-you for raising this issue, describe it well when they explain why this initiative had to be taken. When the Procurement Act came into force, it began to be interpreted more in terms of quality-price comparison above the price, and when the bidding for housing services began, international large companies came to the market, which had only their own interest in profit. In competition, in competition, in competition, the price ignored quality, and at the same time, when this was done as official work, in fact, the participation of disabled people in the provision of their services was reduced and lost and price competition continued to drive down prices and hence quality. So it turned out that the life of a disabled person became a commodity. Thank you to the authors for stopping this matter. I think that this debate, which has taken place around this, has affected the conscience of many people and certainly also the conscience of many people. It seems that there is a political will, a unanimous will, that this matter should be corrected, and it really requires more than the parliamentary positions that have been unanimously committed to today. It requires that the procurement law be clarified that it is clearly stated that quality and tendering are not obligatory when it comes to services for people with disabilities, but there are other mechanisms. And it also requires clear quality criteria to be written on the disability service law. There has often been a debate in this Chamber about whether we regulate too much, whether we write too many standards in legislation, which will then prevent its healthy judgment and choice when local solutions are sought. However, in my opinion, this aspect of housing services for people with disabilities and many other services for people with disabilities other than, for example, the debate on elderly services and some early childhood education services shows that there must be legal protection in terms of quality. By the way, when the money is tight, the minimum becomes ever lower and lower and price competition wins. I hope that this consensus, which has been found with regard to this housing service, also applies to the Kela rides of people with disabilities, because in them we see that the overall economy is actually beginning to be forgotten. I understand that a solution has been sought in Kela within the framework of the financial framework and that there has been a call for competition, which has led to a complete madness. A few days ago, a nurse called me from Forssa's cytostatic ward, who said that nothing can be done about this Kela taxi, we have weekly chemo treatments that go wrong when the taxi doesn't work and the customers don't show up. Every one of those failed chemo treatments is said to cost about 60,000 euros. It would already buy a few cars for those who try to go to that treatment when the taxi system has gone ahead of the price competition. This is just a side story, as it were, but it has to do with this competition for human and vital services and related expertise. The old saying says that the competition is a good man but a bad host, and this old saying is very right. In their own financial distress, municipalities often seek savings through competitive tendering and also at the expense of quality, but it is also often difficult to compete with quality. It is only afterwards that we see what criteria should have been set, and that is why, at the national level, we need to look for mechanisms that, even when we end up in competition for certain things, we would be better able to do so. In particular, when purchasing services, it is important that the service is considered to be needed from a person’s point of view and that connection works when the service is provided. Too short service contracts, especially in housing, but also in many other services, are unreasonable from the point of view of people and customers. In housing services because it is a matter of a person’s home. The measure of success is not the euro, it is a good life, and the results of the welfare service are often only visible for the entire life cycle and are therefore difficult to measure by means of the quarterly economy. It is therefore necessary to find adequate quality criteria for people's services, and this is why tendering is not suitable for housing services for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u59	Madam President! Human life does not really fit as a commodity, as has already been said in this debate with more than one mouth. In fact, when I listened to this debate and the speeches, it came to mind that the relic, the auction system that came to be mentioned, and I remembered that my great-grandfather was also an exclamation child. The person who made the Cheapest Offer took care of him, and this is the history of a lot of Finns, but it is not today. We have wanted to build a welfare society, and we are doing the finishing work here today. The problems of competitive services for people with disabilities and their loved ones have been unanimously recognised, and it has also been found that the tendering of essential assistance and support for people with disabilities is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Mr President! The authors and signatories of this citizens' initiative have done an important job without which these issues would certainly not have the weight in this Chamber. Thank you for that civic activity, that is what is needed, and cooperation will help us achieve results. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered the problems raised in the citizens' initiative and expert opinions regarding the procurement of services for disabled persons to be serious and particularly problematic that the involvement of people with disabilities in the decision-making process concerning them has not been adequately ensured and that the continuity of services is being violated in a way that should not occur. The inclusion and influence of the customers of disability services must be better protected — this view was unanimously shared by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Indeed, the proposals for statements contained in these opinions by the Committees provide an opportunity to draw up specific legislation on the organisation of services in such a way that the sustainable organisation of services for the disabled and the abolition of competitive tendering can be achieved. That is what we want to see happen, and from now on the whole of Parliament must now shoulder the responsibility of actually doing so together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u60	Madam President! I myself would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. This has clearly already led to a good result, and Mrs Filatov gave an excellent speech here. Competition and quality control are indeed very difficult to implement, especially for people with disabilities, so that someone does not suffer somewhere in Finland. In my opinion, Eero The magazine also gave a very good speech in which he said that, especially for disabled people, the change of place of residence is always heavy, and if it is not just a change of place of residence but also a change of care staff around it, then it can cause very significant welfare deficits for a long time. But I myself will bring up the Council initiative I have already taken in the city of Iisalme. In 2010, I suggested that either the city or a limited company owned by it will make such a service house — whether there are elderly people 24 hours a day or disabled — and enter into a rental relationship with those who become residents. Then if someone is running that activity, whether it is the city’s own activity or the private one’s, the place of residence will always remain the same. This could prevent... and, in fact, if this had been done on a larger scale, today we would have kept this very element of housing and renting away from competitions. It would have been possible to prevent them if they had acted differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u61	Madam President! Mr Filatov gave an excellent speech. It is important that these efforts now become law by means of Parliament and preparation, and then by law into everyday life. Corrections are needed to competition law, to the procurement law so that these life-long services can be excluded from it and also to the disability service law. I think it was a good thing that Mrs Filatov also raised these issues, but there are also some serious problems with transport under the Disability Services Act in many areas at the moment. They're not working. If it is said that home is not something to be put out for competition, then the assistant familiar to these people, but also the familiar taxi, the familiar driver, are things that should be better respected than at present. At the moment, the services of Kela taxis in Finland do not seem to work the way they should. Competition competence is a matter of its own. It is not only enough that we have legislation, but also that we must know how to use it. Too often, it is said that, as Mr Eestilä has pointed out here, these quality criteria have been so poorly prepared or incompetent that, for example, all of them have reached full scores, and since then, in fact, competition has taken place from the point of view of just the euro, the cost alone. In other words, this requires competence, this requires criteria, this also requires national guidance, so that this can be put right. But there has been an excellent discussion here in Parliament. And sometimes it is nice to be in this room so that we agree from the left side of the hall to the right side of the hall. Every Member of Parliament has made excellent speeches today and it is hoped that they will now also become laws and laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u62	Madam President! It is a very good thing that we have statutory disability councils, elderly councils, youth councils. They all came into the law, didn't they? The only problem with this is that they are not decision-making bodies, the Council for the elderly and the Council for the Disabled, but it is very important that they are consulted. Here, too, the role of the disability council in the municipality was highlighted, the fact that municipal decision-makers call members of the disability council, the members of the elderly council to be consulted and accept the message, because they have the deep expertise there, the expertise of experience very often too. And it is also very important that, for example, people who are disabled or families with disabilities are elected as members of the Disability Council, so that their voices are heard. It is often a problem that the most severely disabled people, those with severe disabilities, do not get to the Council and do not make their voice heard. There has been talk here of quality and that competition is not obligatory. Municipalities can decide for themselves and use other options. It is very important that there is that knowledge, and there has been a great deal of talk about that competence here, but then there is the fear that if the competition fails and someone complains about it and has not been chosen the cheapest, then there will be market law there. And this is the big problem. In every way, home is the best place for a person. It is also for the disabled and the elderly, and we must ensure adequate resources for care for the elderly, care for the disabled, housing services, group homes. That is what this discussion of the initiative here in Parliament now means that all of them are concerned about who is involved and who is involved in their services. Citizens' initiatives have made their voice heard in Parliament during this winter. We have had the Citizens' Initiative for Insurance Doctors and now we have this initiative for competition in aid for people with disabilities, and it is good that these things can be taken forward by consensus, because that is when it really gets a great deal of appreciation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u63	Madam President! I followed this discussion with interest through the tablet, and now I am forced to participate in it, even though I did not intend to do so. There are people like us that we all probably recognize a disabled person in everyday life and we may have close relatives or acquaintances, but for some Finns disability is just a sign that there is an inva parking place in the parking lot. That is why it is good that this debate should be held in that way, and now I have to say from the left to the right that Mr Heinonen raised a very good point. He talked about the continuum of life-long services and Kela rides. Today the morning TV news came from how many actors in the field face violence when they work in disability services, as a nurse, how much violence they face. Here it would be very important to consider that we should, in those Kela rides, sort of personalize and give a reliable patient-driver relationship so that the disabled person can go into the same familiar, safe service provider, so that we can prevent those situations that when different personalities meet, something can always happen that is surprising. In that sense, the representative: Heinonen did make a good point that there should be such a safe service on the Kela side, that we would be given a continuum so that the familiar and secure service that meets personal needs could be created. In that sense, thank you once again, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u64	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 26/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u65	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the game damage law. According to the proposal, farm, animal and movable damage caused by large predators, including dog damage, would be compensated in full, such as personal injury, and without delay. In recent years, predators have caused damage of around EUR 12 million, which could only be compensated for EUR 8.4 million. This is finally going to change. Outside the reindeer treatment area, the biggest cause of damage is the wolf. The wolves of Finland belong to the subspecies Canis lupus lupus, which includes tens of thousands of individuals in the Eurasian distribution area. So this vast population is not endangered. The committee took a firm position on changing the protection of the wolf and the committee therefore calls in its report for the Government to act without delay to transfer the wolf from Annex IV to Annex V to the Habitats Directive, allowing more flexibility to remove the wolves that caused damage. And that is not all: on the basis of an expert committee consultation, the committee considered that a male wolf was an alien species that was not part of the Finnish nature. The committee therefore considers it necessary to remove the hybrid specimen identified from our country's natural habitat, in accordance with the management plan, with the permission of the Finnish game centre. Mr President! This government proposal is quite historic, although it is overshadowed by the social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u66	Mr President! The committee produced a very good report which was endorsed by a majority of the committee. I would particularly like to thank the opposition representatives in the report for understanding the matter and for their good cooperation. With regard to a good report, I would just like to raise a few points: First of all, it is very good that this law will allow better and faster payment of fraud outside the reindeer management area. The damage caused by predators is about EUR 12 million per year, which has not been fully compensated by the EU restriction. Last year, compensation had to be cut by around EUR 3.6 million and this year, according to forecasts, a similar amount. This tells us of an over-exploited strain of fraud and the failure to pay compensation. This is a way of correcting that payment, but unfortunately it is not yet the case of an oversized population of predators. Speaking of fraud, Mr President, I would like to thank the majority of the committee for the fact that the report also recorded a wolf-dog cross, that is, a male wolf. The report states: ‘On the basis of an expert consultation, the committee considers that a species of dog wolf that is not natural. The removal shall be carried out by operators authorised by the authorities. The committee therefore considers it necessary to remove the hybrid specimen identified from our country's natural habitat, in accordance with the management plan, with the permission of the Finnish game centre. The individual should also be identified as a hybrid based on morphological characteristics.’ The committee considers it essential that the methods used for identification are therefore reliable and transparent and also allow independent sampling. At the moment, the person who has removed the beasts as an official aid must not take hair from the animal he has removed. This is certainly not in my sense of justice. I think it is important that the remover should also have the right to take samples of the animal he has removed in order to compare the DNA of the animal with other specimens identified as male wolves. Mr President! I am also particularly pleased that the committee had the courage to write in its report: ‘The Committee calls for the Council of State to act on the delay to be transferred from the annex to the Nature Directive to Annex V. “ This was a bold move on the part of the committee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u67	Madam President! The Government's proposal is justified by the fact that the damage caused by large predators to farming, animals and movables, including dog damage, would be fully compensated, such as personal injury. The verification of reindeer damage would be improved by providing for an obligation to photograph and mark the site of the damage on the ground and indicating the coordinates of the site of the damage. The problem will continue to be the payment of compensation only once a year, when victims may have to wait up to a year and a half for compensation. In addition, the increase in damage caused by large predators has resulted in a lack of financial resources, which has prevented full compensation. In this context, the committee decided to take the issue of wolf policy as a matter of its own. The idea of this was born on the journey of the committee to Germany and France, because it was also the case. In countries, the damage caused by wolves has increased and the committees of both countries supported changes in the protection of the wolf. The number of wolves in Ostrobothnia has doubled according to the last wolf count. This has resulted in increased garden visits by wolves. The situation escalated last August when the parents held a demonstration in Vaasa Square. According to police estimates, about 2,500 fathers, mothers, children, grandmothers, papas and other relatives had arrived at the market. Such demonstrations are very rare in our region, which indicates the seriousness of the situation. In my own speech, I said that this matter should be dealt with during this Parliament, and fortunately this committee's report has now taken action. Last October, the newspaper Pohjalainen reported: “Wolves showed teeth to a jogger in Laihia. The jogger encountered two wolves in the immediate vicinity of the town centre of Laihia on the fitness track. The jogger had been caught between two wolves on a fitness track near the center at eight o’clock in the evening, and the wolves had shown the jogger their teeth. The brave jogger had made a noise, when the wolves had left.” What if there was a young mother or a 15-year-old athlete? It took four hours before the game centre was allowed to track wolves, that is, four hours, when the common sense said they should have been traced immediately and they should have been removed. Currently, the wolf is a reindeer herding area except in Annex IV to the EU Habitats Directive, which requires strict protection. The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry suggests that Finland should enter into negotiations with the EU to move the wolf from Annex IV to Annex V, as it is already in the reindeer husbandry area. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u68	Mr President! Just over eight years ago, at a downtown event in Rovaniemi, I gave my first political speech. It was then that MPs from Lapland were elected in the city centre. I started my first speech so that I was the bitch from which the bears killed 75 sheep last summer, but they did not know that the sheep of the wrong bitch did. Now, during this parliamentary term and in the previous Chamber, I have been able to talk about fraud more than once. A lot of work has been done here. Things have been moved forward, but not as much as I would have hoped. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in the number of frauds, and there has been an increase in the number of frauds, even though in another way we would have liked to see progress and progress. I am in favour of this bill. On the other hand, I would have liked to have changed the allowance for hammers for reindeer in such a way that the damage that has already been discovered, the dead calves, would have been compensated for the proper value of the owner of that calf, because many times these calves are livewrecks, e.g. those that have been left alive in the autumn, and their value would be quite different, but now they go to the common fund for the compensation of the Paliskunta. This was justified by the fact that the House would be overcompensated for these calves, but in my opinion it would have been quite easy to correct with the formula. But, well, the perfect law for this was not yet obtained. The advantage of this law is that now compensation is more quickly received for these victims — a very important issue — and then full compensation, hopefully full compensation, for the damage suffered by reindeer owners. The Lex Halla section here will now be gone. There are many opinions on this, but this will ensure that these compensations will then be granted to all the reindeermen to whom they belong. Many have said that what do you have to live for, but when the recompense is not vehement? It's just that the fraud payment doesn't make the hammer. The next year there will be no vassal, which you will not slaughter and where you will earn income. So it's always an accident. So definitely we would prefer it to stay alive, which we have left alive. The big change in reindeer husbandry is that in the future we must take a picture of the target and the environment. I am currently on leave of absence from the post of rural and economic agent of the municipality of Savukoski, i.e. I am the authority that accepts these claims and also carries out inspections on the ground. I have carried out a few field inspections, and at least from them I have come to the conclusion that the wolverine is a terrible beast. It would be good for many people to see the damage a glutton can do in the terrain.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u73	Madam President! Undoubtedly, we are talking about predatory damage in this context, and the combination of alien species is not in a sense in context. I'll keep a representative. It is, in itself, justified that this is the case, but now we are going as with two wheels, and it is a bit of a pity that work is being done in committee so that there are hybrids at every point. And now that we are talking about compensation for the damage caused by great beasts, they are great beasts. We won't talk about the damage caused by the hybrids. Whether we take samples or not, we have certainly been in complete agreement in committee. We need to be able to take into account the fact that we are aware of what the genetic basis of our major predator population is and how it is changing. The fact that opposition and government parties have been divided into goats and sheep is a little disturbing in this debate. For my part, at least in committee, I tried to secure what we agree is that the authority will take a decision, but for my part I would like to confirm the view that the individual person who will remove it will be safe in the decision taken by the authorities. But now that we have an alien species item in the committee, and then some of us want this hybrid, that is, a male wolf, to come in, that means that the authority does not have to give a decision on the removal of the individual when it is possibly a hybrid. So at this point such an unemotional conversation would have been good and not just forced to reach a goal. As a wiener, I can say that we have been found in that western Finland that the wolf population is too high in those circumstances because people are afraid, and we have dog damage so that we no longer go hunting with a dog. So something has to be done, and this law is in the right direction that we must courageously see that everyone can also feel safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u74	Mr President! I can agree with Mrs Maijala that it is not in anyone's interest that the beast eats the reindeer. It is not in the interests of society, but it is not in the interests of that reindeer man either. This report by the committee shows that the increase in the price of reindeer meat and the calculated elements of reindeer damage, such as the loss of hammers and the exceptionally large damage to reindeer, have brought the damage caused by large predators to almost EUR 12 million. These damage occurs mainly at the eastern border and at the southern edge of the reindeer herding area, and in these areas the permitted number of reindeer does not rise, because the beasts do the damage. This is the EUR 10 million limit, which is problematic, namely the Commission's implementing decision to pay only the damage of EUR 10 million. I believe that this limit should be changed. This is far too insignificant for us to have many of these beasts. We should start negotiating how to raise this limit. I am particularly concerned about the future of these present Lex Halla columns. How will these reindeer men now be taken into account for the enormous work that results from looking after the beasts under the protection of these societies and then doing the work that might actually be done by someone else? So they're worried about their own livelihood there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the game-related law, it is necessary to talk about predatory policy in this context, for if the game-related damage is replaced so that the money is no longer sufficient, then of course we must already consider whether the predatory policy we have pursued has made sense, especially from the point of view of the people who, in practice and on a daily basis, are dealing with these predators. I personally agree with Mr Hongisto that the committee has made good guidelines on male wolf, as the male wolf is an alien species and does not really belong in Finland's nature. Then, in due course, we will perhaps discuss more closely what needs to be done about these foreign species in Finland. The second question of eternity on which the committee has taken a stand, although at the end of this parliamentary term, is this Habitats Directive. In Estonia and in our reindeer husbandry areas, the wolf is included in Annex V to the Habitats Directive, and elsewhere in Finland it is included in Annex IV, which causes major problems year after year, and it is those people who are constantly confronted with the problems of living in the midst of these beasts on a daily basis. In particular, I would point out the problem that when the Finnish hunting culture has been based on hunting in dogs for centuries — dogs have been processed, we have the national treasure of the Finnish survival ear — people, with the help of these dogs, will no longer dare to practice their own culture and the hobby activities, which, in the sense of Eastern Finland, is a strong part of people's autumn activities, because the predator population is too big. These dog damage should be compensated no matter how much if people dared to take dogs into the wild and hunt them. And this makes it a problem. Of course, even in Finland... We have a long border with Russia, 1,300 kilometres or whatever it is, and we know, however, that this wolf population is common. I just got a text from that Russian border saying it's full of wolf marks. No expert should claim that there is little movement between Finland and Russia, when the local people know very well that they are herds. Genetic material moves back and forth all the time. But if we go a little deeper, I do not quite understand how this rational management of predatory policy could have been so difficult in Finland. When the EU repeatedly stresses the importance of the subsidiarity principle, the subsidiarity principle is important, i.e. decisions are taken where it is appropriate, the EU is constantly denying a sensible predatory policy in Finland. This applies specifically to Eastern Finland, where wolves practically form a wolf incubator there, and nothing can be done about these. In the same areas, the same herds rotate year after year and prevent the hunting of people, i.e. the pursuit of their own culture. When the interpretation is passed on to the authorities, as seems to be the case in Finland — when constitutional experts will interpret when anyone interprets these matters — I believe that in the Habitats Directive the following elements are required to allow the killing and removal of the wolf where it causes disturbance: Such a reason is to restore public security. These are questions, too, because schoolchildren and children suffer when they are afraid to go to school and fear. This first point will then be fulfilled: restoring public security. Then we should be more sensitive to issuing these waivers in the very area where these problems exist. The second is social reasons. At least I interpret — I don’t know about the authorities — that these are already starting to be social problems when the village fights with one another. When others try to scare or do something about the wolf population, and others are watching and the villagers are fighting each other, it’s not that far from being there for social reasons. And then there are the general compelling reasons. If the legislator from a distance in Brussels, from the third floor, tries to control a people who cannot practice their traditional culture, then of course the citizens may take the right into their own hands, and who will win? It does not win the wolf, it does not win the respect of the law, nor does it win the EU. On the contrary, people are beginning to feel, as it were, bad feelings about the EU, which, however, is a community of peace and an economically sound community for us. There should be some sense in this. What I find most unpleasant is that in Finland, when power belongs to the people and this is a democratic system, Parliament is powerless in these matters. If this were in the hands of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, even if we voted democratically, we would soon, for example, deal with predatory problems in certain areas of Eastern Finland and also deal with these fraud compensation cases so that they would go to the level that is reasonably acceptable. That is what this is all about. I fully understand Mrs Myllykoski's constructive speech. This speech may not quite coincide with what we have in this paper itself, but I think that this debate shows more that there is some frustration among the parliamentarians, especially those who are genuinely concerned about the traditional rights of the people of Eastern Finland and what is happening there in everyday life and what their attitude is towards the legislator. That is why this debate should take place, at least in some way, this report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will help in the sense that some sense is found in predatory policy and that it will be possible to eliminate the herds which specialize in eating dogs and thus prevent hunting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u76	I'll give you one answer. Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u77	Madam President! That is the question, and that is why I wanted to take this point — and thank you to Mr Eestilä for taking note of what I have said — that, when it comes to fraud compensation, we probably agree that the eating or damage caused by a male wolf is not within the scope of fraud compensation, and that is why I wanted to clarify that these two things are different. If it is then found that it was a hybrid, it is assumed that this legislation does not consider it to be within the framework of the fraud compensation system. Even though it is an animal’s damage to another — just as if a neighbor’s big dog eats a small poodle — it does not come under this predatory compensation because it is not a beast but a cross.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u78	Mr President, värderade talman! I would also like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for my part.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u79	Mr President! Mr Eestilä gave a six-minute speech, and I agree with his comma. That's a very good speech. I myself come from South Ostrobothnia, moved to North Karelia, and the characteristics of these tribes are quite different. In North Karelia wolves have been used to, they have always lived with them there, and whenever a wolf has been taken out of there, Russia has become a new wolf. I am very pleased that the wolves have spread from North Karelia as well. There have also been wolves in Lapland for ages, but there have been very few wolves in Western Finland. In this past two years, when wolves have spread out to Ostrobothnia, I have been very pleased that these wolves have become somewhat interested and do something about things. In North Karelia it is not so much to go to the market in Joensuu to march and riot – and I am not speaking negatively here, but it is an excellent thing that in Ostrobothnia, Vaasa, which is a seaside town in Western Finland, these wolves are of interest and we in Parliament want to put these wolves in order. This proposal, which we now have before us, is one step in the right direction. Much remains to be done, and for that reason the Members of Parliament are here to do their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u80	Mr President! It was a good thing that the committee's report also included this waste description issue. The risk description is certainly not a measure of the nature of Finland. It is a very pretentious way of changing the behaviour of predators, and in that area too, for example, reindeer damage is very great and biodiversity is no longer in good condition in the area where there is waste photography. The beasts of today are no longer afraid of man. Earlier in Finland, predators were far away from humans, they did not come near them, but for some reason they are already coming close to dogs. We had a wolf in the yard — even in our reindeer care area a wolf had come into the yard — and it was not afraid, for example, of our dogs or of us humans at all. I don't know where it came from, I don't know where it came from. We need bold changes to this predatory policy. Mr Eestilä made a very good point of saying that they in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had very good proposals on how to correct these predatory matters. I really hope that we will now be able to get across the party boundaries in the next government programme, so that we can really tackle this situation in the right way, so that we can put it in order, for example, to make the wolves and bears understand that they must continue to fear man. The number of predators is significant in their entire territory, i.e. their habitat, mainly the territory of Russia. Among other things, the bears in our region — while I am now living in Eastern Lapland — for some reason realize that 20. The day of August must all run to Russia, and then, when it is possible, they will come back to our territory to eat. That's 20. August is indeed the beginning of the bear hunting season in our region. Finally, as far as bears are concerned, I will raise this issue of spring fishing. The Finns have made it impossible to ask for bears in the spring when certain decision-makers in the EU were led to believe that this was a completely absurd matter. However, we should be able to introduce this more pro-active removal in spring, that is, if we know that there are bears in certain areas that come there to cause damage, then there should be a chance to remove that bear even before it does a greater number of damage. This would be legal and possible, and this would also make a real difference in the reindeer husbandry area.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u81	Mr President! I will take this floor again for reasons of principle. I myself have said to myself, at least on a number of occasions, that it is not the matter, but what it stands for. When we MPs are taught a bit like children sometimes, that a wolf is not dangerous to a person and must not be hateful, at least not to myself, and I think that Mrs Kulmala — thank you for your comments — there is probably no wolf hate or this sort of thing. The question is simply that we are defending the rights of certain people. It is a question of rights, and, for example, in Eastern Finland or Lapland or elsewhere, there are very limited opportunities for hobbies that people have there. There are no operas, there are no other expenses, perhaps there are. A lot of people are waiting all year long for the fall. Recreation in nature, all berrying, fishing, hunting is their culture and they expect it. In fact, many people are already living in expectation, and the whole autumn is going well, and this is what I am defending in terms of mental health and mobility and everything. Now that there are many municipalities where people can no longer go deer hunting because the moose population is being spared to the wolves, is there any point in this? Who are we in favour of? At least, over the years, it has been the most painful thing for me to see that, in a way, people have been breeding dogs and living with them and using them for experiments and other purposes, and then we deny from a distance that they can no longer hunt. That's what this is all about, not some wolf hate. None of us in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry would want the wolves to disappear from the Finnish nature, but the little one could use some sense. If in the same areas from year to year there are these terrorist hordes who eat the dog as soon as it barks, go like a scavenger to eat there, then something sensible should be done, but how can this be so locked? Finally, I understand the nature conservation organisations that many of them have an anti-hunting position and take the view that nothing should be done, but they are not affected. It's about the people who live there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u82	Mr President! This report from the committee was very nice for me to read. I have carefully read there and I will bring up these police measures in the event of an accident. If there's a police law number two. According to Article 16 of Chapter 16, the police officer's last resort is then to put an end to an animal which causes considerable damage to property, and I have received such information that this protection of property would not, however, affect these very reindeer owners. After all, we have a lot of situations where the wolverine repeatedly attacks the reindeer farm, the winter garden, and destroys it, making the so - called living hags, or spirits, from there to several reindeer during the same night. But it is said that this police code of conduct does not apply to these things, so it is considered that it is not the police's task in these situations to bring that damaging beast out of the day. If this is indeed the case, it would also be appropriate to update these guidelines so that they treat everyone equally, including the trader, in terms of the protection of their property.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u83	Madam President! This law is a step in the right direction, but it does not remove the problem. Mr Eestilä had an excellent speech about how nothing really works here, which is related to hunting. I'll give you an example. We were at Luke's event, including the representative of Hongisto, and we looked at the wolf situation in Finland. There were no wolves in Central Finland, i.e. no herd or wolf, but at the same time the wolf Malla followed six wolves from the web. One of the things that happened to Malla wolf was that in Kinnula it disappeared and with police patrols and helicopters it was sought — something that did not exist according to the Natural Resources Centre. We are given information of this kind, here to the representatives, which is not true. Oh, yes, a wolf who had eaten... Among other things, there was a guy at the sawmill who had a dog. He had paid 3000 euros for it and trained and acquired the collars and everything. It was an expensive investment. The wolf had eaten, and left nothing but the head and the collar on it, such a wolf, which According to the Natural Resources Agency, there is no such thing. In other words, these facts should be brought to the attention of the parliamentarians and not such unrealistic information that we are now getting from there — propaganda, frankly. As Eestilä said, they come across the border all the time, and I'm sure those people on the border know it better than someone in Brussels or the conservationists here in southern Finland or Olli Ohtonen, or what Ohtonen it is — the nature program from wolves became a full propaganda program. Wolves were defended there, and I'm sure the male wolves were part of it. This is the kind of information we get from all sides, and the truth is ignored by this kind of inaccurate information. The truth in the hand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u84	Madam President! This government proposal concerns the amendment of the game damage law and, in particular, the amendment of the compensation for reindeer damage caused by large predators by the proposed repeal of the special compensation clause for exceptional reindeer damage, the so-called Lex Halla. This existing regulation has been found to be unequal in the reindeer sector, and the repeal of this article has received broad support from the authors. The Government's proposal is well-founded and supported. The committee considered that this change in compensation is also necessary in order to speed up the payment of compensation and to alleviate the major fraud conflict and will improve the position of the Palestinians who have not been eligible for the Lex Halla compensation. The committee considered it important that compensation be paid without delay and in full, and this is easy to agree with. In addition, in the report, the committee stressed that, in future reporting of reindeer damage or fraud, when labelling and coordinates for a photograph or site of damage are required, the absence or loss of such indications must not be the sole reason for rejecting an application for compensation. We also drew attention in the report to the fact that the reindeer damage found between the national border and the reindeer barrier fence between Norway and Finland will continue to be excluded from compensation. The committee considered that this issue should be clarified in the future: could this damage caused by fraud, however, also be covered by compensation? It's possible to find out. We also pointed out in the report that efforts are being made to prevent damage to domestic and productive animals and that sufficient resources should be allocated to this purpose. Madam President! I therefore support the government's proposal, but I cannot agree with all the general arguments put forward by the committee. The biggest reindeer damage in the reindeer care area is caused by glutton. However, the committee's report makes an exceptionally broad reference to the state of the Finnish wolf population and the regulation of the wolf. The general explanatory statement of the report goes beyond the content of the government's proposal. As a representative of the executive, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is currently reforming the management plan for the Finnish wolf population. It can even be interpreted that the committee has intended to influence the implementation of existing legislation in a way that cannot be considered entirely appropriate. Under the guidance of the Ministry, the management plan for the wolf population of Finland, which was drawn up in cooperation with the Finnish Game Centre and the Finnish Institute for Fisheries, the current Natural Resources Centre, set out the following objectives: to achieve and maintain the wolf population at a favourable level of protection; to establish the monitoring of the wolf population in the activities of a network of large-scale predator associations; to establish ways to improve the coexistence of the wolf and man; to build trust between the actors; to respond quickly to the harm caused by the wolf; and to prevent damage and to the illegal killing of the wolf effectively. A new updated wolf stock management plan is currently being prepared under the guidance of the Ministry, which will be completed by the end of this year. I support and support the update of the management plan launched by the Ministry, as despite the good starting point and objectives of the existing management plan, the management plan still faces a challenge of problem-oriented interaction between game management, researchers and civil society actors. Mr President! Finland has long sought a favourable level of protection for the wolf in line with EU regulations by means of strict protection, without success. The protection of the wolf population can only be achieved if the concerns and needs of people living and working in the same area as the wolves are taken into account in their management. The current management plan examines the level of favourable protection through the requirements of the EU Habitats Directive. The definition of a favourable conservation status is carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of the Habitats Directive. The smallest viable wolf population in Finland is 25 growing pairs. This smallest viable position is different from the level of favourable protection. The number of couples with progeny yields at the estimated time is counted as increasing couples and half of the increasing pairs living on both sides of the Finnish-Russian border are counted as part of the Finnish stock. The number of herds and the vitality and survival of the Finnish wolf population and herd are assessed annually by the Finnish Natural Resources Institute Finland's stock assessment. Mr President! It must be noted that no expert has suggested that there should be no movement of wolves across the Finnish-Russian border in both directions. However, no expert data indicates that the Finnish wolf population would receive a continuous significant flow of income migration from the East, even though wolves move across the border. It is for this reason that the 2015 management plan set the minimum target for 25 breeding herds, while the 2005 management plan considered that 20 breeding herds would be sufficient if the migration from the East remained unchanged. According to the latest research results, even the genetic diversity of the Finnish wolf population may be narrowing if income migration decreases. In its general arguments, the committee calls into question the assessment of the threat posed by the wolf and also suggests that Finland should demand that the wolf be transferred to Annex V of the Habitats Directive throughout the country. This view of the committee is not supported by expert knowledge, nor is it legally relevant in the light of legislation. The assessment of the threat is based on international IUCN guidance. Evaluations will be carried out at both global and national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u85	Madam President! I would say to Mrs Halmemenpää that if all the decisions taken in Parliament were based on the advice of experts, there would obviously be a hundred too many Members of Parliament and everyone could be out of here. That democracy does mean something else. We must be able to apply and see what the overall situation is and not get caught up in one thing and not in the opinion of one sector expert. As far as the Russian population and the Finnish population are concerned, of course they cross the border, but when I asked Ilpo Kojola, who is probably the leading wolf scientists in Finland, the theoretical question is that if all the wolves were to be evicted or killed in some way today, how much time will it take to have exactly the same number of wolves in Finland. She thought for a while about the answer and replied to me that for about ten years. It shows that we are at no risk here. No matter what they do to the wolf population in Finland, on the day of age, it does not have any effect on the fact that the wolf is extinct or threatened in any way — regardless of what the experts think. Mr President! To these questions of principle: When you want to take the fight against hunting to a certain point, it will lead to the very odd end of being worried about wolves and watching every wolf so that nothing just happens, but you don't care about a deer that is really endangered. How on earth is the absolute value of that deer and the wolf somehow different? In my opinion, both are animals, and if one is really going extinct, then one must side with the other, not for ideological reasons, who is not going to die. This illogicality shows that all this fraud policy is based on factors other than facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u86	Madam President! I'll take it from there. The risk assessment of species is an assessment of the risk of species loss. It is not a question of prioritising the conservation needs of species and the assessment is not directly binding. Protection measures should be considered separately, taking into account also the obligations imposed on Finland by international agreements and EU Community legislation. However, together with the occurrence data of species, the threat assessment provides the necessary information base for the conservation and conservation of species and their habitats at local, regional, national and also European level. A favourable level of protection is a binding objective set by the Habitats Directive, the evaluation of which is carried out every six years as laid down by the Habitats Directive. In Finland, the wolf belongs to species in Annex 5 to the Habitats Directive. In other parts of Finland, the wolf belongs to species in Annex IV to the Habitats Directive, which require strict protection. The initiative to amend the annexes to the Habitats Directive is the sole responsibility of the European Commission, not the Member States. The amendment of Annex IV would also require a unanimous decision of the Council of Europe, i.e. unanimity, by all the Member States. Furthermore, the assessment of the amendment of Annex IV to the Habitats Directive should be based exclusively on biological criteria, i.e. based on an assessment of the endangered nature of the species and the level of protection — not on political grounds. Mr President! I would also like to point out that the proposal to amend the annexes in the committee's general explanatory statement is misleading in terms of the outcome and even the conscious maintenance of the wolf conflict, because even if the wolf were transferred to Annex V throughout the country, the aim of the regulation would still be to maintain a favourable level of protection. In this respect, there would be no change to the current situation. These conditions and consequences have been ignored by the committee and, in my opinion, they have only deepened the wolf conflict. Finland has so far been found to have failed to maintain the favourable conservation status of the wolf by means of strict protection, and Finland has also received a judgment from the European Court of Justice in 2016 on the procedures that endanger the favourable conservation status of the wolf requiring strict protection of the Habitats Directive. In order for this not to happen again, the Finnish line must be clear and in accordance with the regulations. The interpretation of the Habitats Directive is based on the rulings of the European Court of Justice and the guidance document on the strict protection of the Habitats Directive. In Finland, those requirements have been included in the Hunting Act and in the Government Decree on Exemptions. If national measures were to be relaxed, Finland would be aware of the risk that the Commission would take Finland back to the European Court of Justice, and if that were the case, it would be very likely that the action would also require periodic penalty payments, which could be very high. National flexibility cannot therefore be introduced, especially in relation to a species which is not at a favourable level of protection. Mr President! In its general reasoning, the committee also calls for samples of wolves removed by derogation procedures for genetic studies to be taken by independent bodies and stresses the reliability, transparency and transparency of the methods used to identify dog and wolf hybrids. However, the committee also states that suspected cross-breeds between dogs and wolves must also be identified as crossings by experts defined by the Game Centre by their morphological characteristics, i.e. appearance. It should be noted that all wolves delivered to technical services are always sampled with DNA. I believe that, particularly with regard to this position, the committee is trying to influence the implementation of legislation in a way that cannot be considered entirely appropriate. In accordance with current practice, the authorities and research institutes under the guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, such as the Game Centre and the Natural Resources Centre, will identify the experts who will take and examine samples of all known fallen wolves and otherwise dead wolves and individuals suspected of being hybrids for genetic or animal diseases studies. There is no reason to assume that there is a need to change the practice of the authorities in this respect or that there is reason to doubt the reliability and independence of the research methods, to which the committee implicitly refers. However, the committee does not provide any justification for this. In certain circumstances, the protection of the wolf may and must be derogated from on the basis of the criteria set out in Article 16 of the Habitats Directive, which requires that there is no other satisfactory solution to the derogations and that the level of favourable protection of the species in its natural range is maintained. The derogation from strict protection therefore takes place on the basis of the principles laid down in the regulations, with the exception of the Finnish Game Centre or the imposition of a police order. This is the main procedure for the killing of large predators. Mr President! Individuals who are not afraid of man should be removed effectively and quickly by the police. According to the new police law, which entered into force at the beginning of 2014, a police officer has the right to arrest and last resort to killing an animal which poses a risk to the life or health of a person or to significant damage to property or seriously endangers traffic. In addition, Chapter 4, Section 5 of the Penal Code contains a law on forced-farming, which provides that, for example, a domestic animal or herself can be defended in order to prevent an overriding danger. In recent years, there are both prosecutors’ and court rulings that in some cases a protected beast that attacked a dog or a farm animal has been allowed to shoot as a coercion. In 2017, there were three cases of forced displacement where the wolf was killed, but there were no consequences after the police investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u87	Mr President! Mrs Halmemenpää raised these problems in her first speech, namely that the slow pace of payment has been one of the problems, and now, of course, we are trying to correct this. The second point I would like to comment on is that when the committee believes that it is necessary to determine whether the damage caused by fraud can be compensated for damage outside these border barriers, I would say here that man draws borders, but nature does not care about them. Reindeer is a natural animal and then passes across the national border but also across the southern border of the reindeer management area, which is quite long: Kainuu Up to Oulu, there is a southern reindeer husbandry area border. Reindeer travels over it, so in the same context we must also see to it that the reindeer that have crossed its border and the predatory damage they have suffered must, of course, also be covered by compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u88	Mr President! If we continue, not so much the matter, but what it represents, then we are a little stubborn here in Parliament, or some are rather stubborn about this frozen conflict, which wolves in particular cause. I wonder when the Brexit is going at this moment and then we wonder about the events in Hungary, the events in Poland, that perhaps it would not be worth thinking sometimes about what these people in these countries will think when things like this happen. Generally, if leadership or power is very far away and does not know the local conditions, sooner or later it will fail and will not gain the legitimacy in the eyes of the citizens that it should receive. For me, this is a constant contradiction that the EU is talking about the principle of subsidiarity. It is always raised in solemn speeches and elsewhere, but when it should be carried out, the word of those who understand what is happening in the environment and are able to control it on the basis of decades of experience has no value — no value at all. That's when it makes you wonder a little bit. We in the committee have heard a wide range of experts and, of course, we appreciate the advice of the experts, but there are also estimates that the police have been put in charge of a failed big-fraud policy in Finland and waste a great deal of time running after different-looking misfits — whether this is a waste, what this is — and when, after the announcements that someone is going to shoot wolves or hunt wolves. As far as I am concerned, the police should have something more important to do today with drug crime and the fight against international crime, so it is also a question of prioritising police resources. To Mrs Halmemenpää, I have a slightly different idea of what this Annex V means. I've been hunting in Estonia, and there a guy had shot 14 wolves when they wanted to control the wolf stock, which comes from Russia, as in Finland, so that they can then hunt wild boars in peace and hunting with the dog. I was also told that when you go for the evening hunt, if the wolf comes, shoot away, but then in the future we will have to assess how many wolves will be shot, because we want to maintain this favourable level of protection in Estonia too, and that is in Annex V. In other words, if we had Annex V, I say that if we did a little bit of what Estonia has in Annex V, then this wolf hunting would make more sense and in areas where there are wolf concentrations and special problems hunting with dogs, someone would be able to make sense of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u89	Madam President! It is a very good thing that the game damage law is now being updated and fair compensation is being given to the victims for the lost domestic animal. All hunters know that, for example, a good hunting dog is an invaluable friend to its owner, a friend-level partner, and then many also know that old folk wisdom says that for every hunter in his life, only one good dog happens. Getting and training that rare good hunting dog and living with it is a very valuable thing, and then when a wolf eats it — as has unfortunately happened to a couple of my friends that a deer dog of the same standard went into the mouth of a wolf — I understand the pain, and of course it is difficult to describe the magnitude of the loss. Fortunately, however, it has not yet happened to a person. When I followed this debate, I was a little surprised because there has been a lot of noise from different parts of Finland about whether these wolf numbers are correct and how to follow them. A few facts: After all, according to official stock estimates, there are currently close to 300 wolves in Finland, and I will take an example: According to the official Natural Resources Centre, 70 per cent of this wolf population is in Western Finland, Eastern Finland, when all wolf food is exhausted. About all the deer have been eaten from the eastern border; I have not seen the hare for many years. They've lost, too. Roasts no longer run in the centers of the villages and in the local authorities, but I have not seen the hare for a long time. So the game population is twisted because of the huge increase in wolves, and the authorities are constantly concealing this situation, which is actually on the wolf front. At this time of Christmas and early in the year, I went through different eastern border municipalities, i.e. in addition to my municipality of Ilomants, Lake Tohma, Lieksa, Nurmes, Valtimo, Juuka, Rautavaara, Kuhmo. We must remember that very many hunters today have game cameras that are absolutely sure to photograph, and there have been wolves in these places so that, according to the sightings of the hunters and to my estimation, there are already more than a hundred wolves in this eastern area that I have just mentioned. The figure is still low, because these hunters did not want to exaggerate the amount but simply said what was certainly true. They're doing a game trio, of course, and they're following the trail. So the wolf assessment that is officially announced is certainly not true. There's a lot of wolves, a lot more. Every day you see them on a yard call, all the time. This morning, too, Ilomants became a picture for me, where the wolf had visited the backyard of the house. I only ask these parliamentarians who defend wolves: how many housewives would let their own children play in the backyard when there has been a pack of wolves at night or at night? It is easy on the seventh floor of an apartment building to insist that the wolf should be fully protected when their own children are not threatened, but must the parents of the children in the border area bear this? It's hard to understand this kind of thinking. The appeal to a nature directive is, in my view, rather childish, because it was once maimed together and did not follow the instructions required to implement the Habitats Directive at all. Stock estimates, estimates under threat, guidance on how to implement the Habitats Directive and how to select Natura sites... We should have made an assessment of the areas and the various animal species and endangered species. It was done and folded from the table, and that was all it took. In my municipality of residence, for example, one Natura site was claimed to be open swamps, even though it increased by 250 mots per hectare of wood. That's quite an open swamp, too. This describes how by swinging this job was done and the endangered list was completed, which will then be able to interfere with the rest of the work. Today, in the municipalities of the eastern border, there in Kuhmo, Upper Savo and so on, in those forested areas, there is a situation where people do not even report any more wolf sightings to this official Puss database. Why let me know when it doesn't affect anything anymore? It is pointless work because no real figures can be obtained as to how many wolves there are in Finland. After all, there was a case in this newspaper a few months ago in Kanta-Häme, where a woman was arrested and reportedly still in prison when she was holding a wolf breeding plant there. Three genuine wolves were found in the possession of that person. The question arises as to how this woman has acquired control of three genuine wolves. It was claimed that he had been able to import from Russia. After a speech like that, it is quite clear that this is a very clear attempt to cover up. Everyone knows that catching a wild, genuine wolf from the forest as an act of a lonely person, especially by a woman, is an absolutely impossible task. It is a matter of large-scale cooperation, and such assessments, which I have heard about the grossness of this case — if we are to be frank — must be carefully investigated by the police. Hopefully the police will investigate this, because there is no justification for a single woman to capture three wolves, cross them with dogs and release them into the wild. Why, then, are there ‘wolves’ in the Finnish nature that are not like wolves all the time? My friend sent me a picture of Kuhmo last week. It had a picture of a big wolf who supposedly visited the back yard of the house, and it looked like a wolf, but more accurately when I looked at the picture, it was a very clear German Shepherd. So this kind of wolf and dog cross, separated from the herd of wolves. These are the most dangerous ones because they have lost their natural fear of man, and would you, ladies and gentlemen, send your children to the school road to wait for a taxi along the road the previous day when a dog disappeared from the courtyard of the house, eaten by such a “wolf ”? These wolf breeding establishments, where wolves and dogs are crossed, are known to be elsewhere in Finland. There are strong doubts about Upper Savo, and there are clear indications that this has happened in the Kuhmo region. I wonder where the morals of the officials of the Natural Resources Agency are, if this has been done. The police need to look into all of these, see if this is really the case. The case of Kanta-Häme that three wild wolves have been caught was, in my opinion, so outrageous. I'm sure you can't do that job for a lonely person. It is such a difficult task that at least a battalion of men who know the job are needed to do it, and it seems that some official assistance has also been used. I don't know, but I'd like the police to look into this. The suspicion is very strong. Then, if it is claimed that the wolf is endangered, I dare say that all of it is heard when you live to be old.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u90	Madam President! We must defend legal practices, and it is always for the benefit of this society that we should defend them. I'm gonna go back to the criminal code a little bit. In my last speech, I said that there was a law on forced displacement, and now I say that, in national law, we currently have situations in which, for example, a person has to defend himself or his property. The conclusion is that national legislation takes account of situations such as the defence of a domestic animal or a dog against a large predator. Mr President! Finally, contrary to what is implicitly referred to in the general explanatory statement of the committee's report and contrary to what we have heard today in some speeches, there is no reason to assume that the procedures for the strict protection of the wolf or for derogations from it would be justified by national legislation and EU legislation binding on Finland, or legally relevant, and there is no reason to suspect that the responsible authorities would not have sufficient expertise or competence to act in the event of major fraud. Mr President! I support this draft law and I agree with the committee's report in that this government proposal is adopted with minimal amendments tabled by the committee. Instead, the explanatory memorandum to the report on the Finnish wolf population is partly a questionable statement, which goes beyond the content of the Government's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u91	Madam President! On what Mrs Halmemenpää said about compliance with the law: It is self-evident that the law is strictly respected, as Article 2(3) of the Constitution says. The laws are respected, and that also means that the authority must act carefully in its own official activities and promote the common good. There are cases like this, as was the one in the Cantonary House, and there. There are also such strong doubts about wolf farms near the border, as well as in the Kuhmo area and many other places. How is it possible, Mr Halmemenpää, that these male-looking hounds run around Finland and suddenly appear here and there? Hunters follow their territory closely, and if a pack of wolves is there, then the trail is known. But suddenly, like this Kuhmo case, the picture is on my phone, and it can be printed on paper. They found a wolf that's definitely not a wolf. I saw, too, that it was a large German Shepherd, a clear crossover. Similarly, three years ago in Ilomants, a wolf was shot on the edge of Hattuvaara, my village. And Kaarlo Nygrén, a former RKTL game and fisheries scientist from Ilomantsi, had examined its carcass and found that that “wolf ” did not have any natural wolf marks,not yet. And he said it was a wolf. And with regard to such a case, for example, in the Butterfly, man was convicted of the wolf’s fall, and I think there was still one person who ended up in a desperate decision, which is extremely sad. Is a man accused of falling a wolf when he shoots a dog like this? And these are, ladies and gentlemen, precisely these male wolves that are running all the time in the courtyards. There have been dozens of close-to-miss cases in Finland, and no official will be replaced by a lollipop. I have made one complaint to the Ombudsman about it, and in reply I received that the official of the Natural Resources Agency is not an official; he is merely a paid official. Is this what government money is doing in Finland today? Let's keep this kind of business or like locations that are in a clean condition, and still get government money to use it for maintenance and working hours for sure and government-owned equipment, i.e. equipment and equipment. My question is: how many of you, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Halmemenpää, will take responsibility if a small child falls into the mouth of a wolf? There's been a lot of near-misses. And when the first one comes, I'll ask you whose fault it is. According to the Finnish Constitution, every Finnish citizen has the right to a safe life, whether living in a city or in a rural area. If some grandma calls from the remote village of Ilomants to get a cop when there's some amazing activity around the house, there's definitely not going to be a cop, but if someone does,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u92	Mr President! The cross between the dog and the wolf is not part of Finland's nature, and no authority, no expert or any national law organization, has ever suggested that they belong there. The cross between the dog and the wolf shall not be imported into the country. They are classified as alien species and must not be allowed to enter the wild. It is self-evident that regulations should be followed here. Three cases of cross-breeding between dogs and wolves have been verified in Finland. The legislator will probably have no choice but to rely on official knowledge and expert knowledge and scientific knowledge. The committee has had extensive consultations on its own behalf, and these matters have been identified in expert consultations there. In Finland, it is good practice that if there are suspicions of cross-breeding between dogs and wolves, the game centre experts will take a sample, select an expert who will examine whether the cross-breed is involved, and if there is a cross-breed, the game centre authorities will also remove these individuals or remove them from their choice. We have good legislation that needs to be followed and that we need to keep to the regulatory framework. I do not support views that suggest that male wolves are running around the Cape of Finland, and especially those that suggest that citizens should take up these suspected male wolves themselves by identifying them. I am afraid that it would lead to a situation in which there is a very likely serious incitement to a hunting offence, and I do not want to promote such a situation here, at least from the point of view of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u93	Madam President! As I said in my speech, the law must be strictly respected. It is an absolute, uncompromising demand that everyone must follow. But we are in a situation at the moment that the life of a rural person is no longer safe, such male wolves as they hang around the houses. After all, these are the dangerous individuals who pose the danger of a child on his way to school facing a genuine danger. As I said, there are so many of these near miss situations, these have been reported to the authorities a hundred times, but nothing has happened. If a wolf visits the yard, it will take a long time to obtain its removal permit. If that wolf shoots or looks like a wolf, a big dog, a hound, then there will be such a murder, when it is not very likely to have a wolf — just as the "wolf" of Hattuvaara did in his case — but when the authorities tell the truth and then they will prove that it is a wolf, a human being can be convicted of a misdemeanor that is a serious crime. If a real wolf is to be overthrown, then judgment must be given, it is a matter of course. And you have to remember that a genuine, genetically pure wolf is alienating a human being. It's definitely not coming into the yard. It stays far away from man, for it has a natural fear of man, which is a perfectly clear pattern of behavior. This is the opinion of all nature scientists, those who know the true wolf. And now I'm not talking about the people who run these wolf farms. What kind of aid is there in this country? People's lives are constantly being put at risk. Do a child have to lose his life before this is really addressed? According to the claim, these cases, such as the Kanta-Häme case, which was also in the Evening Magazine, have a lot in Finland. I expect the authority to intervene in these matters. Even the parliament can't give money like this if such activities with state money are done if there happens to be government money involved. I don't know, but we need to check it out. This case in Kanta-Häme is now under investigation, which I am very pleased about, but there are suspected cases elsewhere in Finland and a lot of them. I would require that: The Natural Resources Agency is actually launching a study on this issue. It was this case of Kanta-Häme that there were three genuine wolves caught and those wolves have now been stopped, and there are a couple of other cases that I know. What's the point of never interfering with these things before? Does someone have to die? I just wish this day never had to be seen in this house again. When I know, as a person living in the countryside, that these hound-looking wolves, which the Greens claim to be wolves, are running around in the courtyards of houses all the time — I've seen a couple of them live out there in the wild — it's not like they're promoting their own grandchildren to a neighbor's village. This is what I, ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish Parliament, ask you whether a situation like this should be put up with indefinitely, because one day it will certainly come before you that a child will lose his life, and that is something I would never want to see. That is what I ask every night, with my hands crossed, that this should not happen, but if we continue by this means, how things are now in this country, that is certainly what will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u94	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u95	Madam President! The government proposal now before us is extremely important. There has been a clear lack of legislation regarding the appointment of military posts. The Government and the Defence Committee suggest that in future only persons who do not face an international threat to foreign ties may be appointed to Finnish military posts. Foreign citizenship can be considered the most significant link. Instead of a categorical ban on dual citizens, as originally proposed by the government, the law has been prepared on the basis of a consultation. This is a major change and, although leaving the back door to the legislation, it is in line with the rules on equality and discrimination in the Constitution. According to the Constitution, no one may be placed in a different position without an acceptable basis, inter alia, on the basis of origin or any other reason relating to the person. Rather, when it comes to citizenship issues, it is the attitude of other countries towards citizenship that is more important. Mr President! It is clear that two-country nationals share loyalty with two states. On the other hand, some countries do not even recognise dual citizenship but require absolute obedience from their citizens. Our own legislation should not place dual citizens in a position to be in danger in another country. With this legislative amendment, we will be able to control who will be elected to positions of strategic importance. The challenge will be to monitor and monitor important ties if those appointed do not make them known themselves. It is also a challenge to assess it, which poses an international threat of such importance that the post is not available on the basis of it. However, I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Defence and Administration that follow-up will be necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u96	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Our security environment has changed rapidly and significantly. Mr Ronkainen was the first to make a good speech on this matter. During this period, we have taken significant measures to strengthen security. The biggest credit for that is Secretary of Defense Jussi Niinistö. Under his leadership, land acquisition is restricted, property ownership is limited and now these military and similar tasks are under review. We have dealt with this thoroughly and carefully in the Committee on Defence. After all, this is a matter of appointing only a person to the military office of the Defence Forces who does not have the nationality of another State or any other foreign relationship within the meaning of the Security Clearance Act which could jeopardise state security, public security, national defence or international relations in Finland or security of service in the Defence Forces. This applies not only to officers' posts but also to access to studies, and similar changes are also made to the legislation governing the management of the Border Guard. In fact, at the preparatory stage, we were aiming for an even higher level of income in this area. The proposal was to be drafted in such a way that only Finnish citizens who do not have any nationality of another State can be elected to the military post of the Defence Forces, and this provision provided for the possibility of granting a derogation to the applicant. The so-called principle of reciprocity was considered here. I think that this would have been a quite reasonable, sensible solution, but, strangely enough, the Constitution has become an obstacle here too, and a different solution has to be found. According to the proposal, a person must not therefore have a nationality of another State or any other foreign relationship within the meaning of Article 3(1)(9a) of the Security Clearance Act which could jeopardise the security, public security, defence or international relations or security of service in Finland. This requirement applies to the military posts of both the Defence Forces and the Border Guard, and the same requirement is imposed on the student choices of the National Defence College and on the acceptance of the basic course of the Border Guard. I myself have been in the administration of the National Defence College for a few years and I remember how, for example, dual citizenship is not necessarily known there at the application stage. In fact, even in this legislation, it will remain unpunished if it is not reported at the application stage. In other words, a solution has been reached in which security issues related to foreign interests are therefore examined more generally in relation to the issue of nationality, inter alia because such regulation would have involved certain problems in relation to the regulation of equality and discrimination in the constitution. In the Committee on Defence, we stated that the Constitution provides for equality between people and a prohibition of discrimination, and according to the Constitution, no one may, without an acceptable basis, be placed in a different position on grounds such as origin or other reason relating to a person, in accordance with Article 6(2) of the Constitution. In other words, there may be situations in which our constitution now causes us to create such situations where our security may continue to be threatened. The Security Clearance Act was one part of this. That is what is going on, and I think it will be five years, and if, for example, the situation changes substantially during that period, then the person subject to the safety report has an obligation to report on the changes that have taken place. After all, a person may only be a Finnish citizen at the age of 40, and at the age of 41 he may be a double citizen, i.e. a person with dual citizenship can take it later, and the situation could therefore change. This is not a natural situation, therefore, that a person has two or more citizenships, but can take place later on, or this type of attachment could arise, for example, through marriage, through a common-law relationship or through divorce, or through a relationship, for example, from the point of view of indebtedness or someone else, where such influence might come under pressure. The Government's proposal therefore does not propose to include any regulation on penalties if, for example, during the selection procedure, a person deliberately provides the Defence Forces or the Border Guard with incomplete or incorrect information about his/her foreign interests, such as his/her nationality, or conceals another or more non-Finnish citizenship. We also dealt with this issue in the Committee on Defence, and we saw certain problems here. This is now being approached from the point of view of other legislation. In conclusion, the committee noted that acting in military missions could cause serious problems of loyalty and conflict of interest in the case of a person who has strong ties with two different countries. In addition, in some countries, legislation may oblige citizens to act in a certain way in the interests of their national interests when residing abroad, irrespective of their nationality. A double citizen may find himself in a situation where his second country does not accept dual citizenship and the obligations and rights of dual Finnish citizenship are not given meaning, but the individual may even be subject to penalty threats if he does not act in accordance with the obligations of another nationality. In the Committee's view, this is ultimately a conflict of interest between states and not a matter of individual trustworthiness or questioning it. But this is a problem, that is why such legislation has been needed, and thank you for the determination of Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö to take this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u97	Madam President! Indeed, according to this proposal, the military office of the Defence Forces could be appointed and only a person who does not have the nationality of another State or any other foreign relationship within the meaning of the Security Clearance Act which could jeopardise the security, public security, national defence or international relations with Finland or the security of service in the Defence Forces could be selected for the post of officer. And, of course, it is natural that such changes should also be made to the Law on the Administration of the Border Guard as regards the military post and the students who elect for the basic course of the Border Guard. As Mr Heinonen has pointed out here, there has been a great deal going on in matters relating to defence and the security of Finland, our national security, during the Minister of Defence Niinistö's term. During the last term, when Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö was chairman of the Defence Committee, he argued, among other things, in 2012 that the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses would be lifted, and in 2014 he suggested that land sales for foreigners should be restricted. Well, during this government — now that he is a Minister of Defence and a member of the majority government in the Government — these things are being realised and they are also being done by addressing military posts also in the light of national security considerations. And in this respect, Mr Ronkainen said that ‘the Board of Directors and the Committee on Defence will present’. More specifically, it is the government that makes the legislative proposals, and the Committee on Defence in its report supports the government's proposal. In other words, the government is proposing, and the Committee on Defence, of course, as a representative of Parliament, then in its report, supports this government's proposal on a certain point of view. If we look at the grounds for this proposal, then of course the absolute loyalty to the Finnish State must be very high in such military posts, especially in the case of exceptional circumstances and in terms of the investments in it, but also in terms of the tasks of the peace period. Of course, the closer the emergency conditions would be, the smaller the difference between the two. It is important to note — contrary to what one might still think in the public debate — that this proposal does not mention any specific countries or categorically prohibit all dual citizens from attending these posts or studies. The choice would always be based on case-by-case considerations, which would assess the risk of security arising or arising from foreign ties, i.e., of course, to assess whether a link can constitute a security risk, for example, in order to exert pressure on the interests of another country. This is also important because, of course, there are countries where, under their own laws, even double citizens are obliged to help the security authorities of that country. This is, among other things, the case for the Russian Federation within the framework of their constitution. Without mentioning any more countries, my view is of both public information and my own experience, of what people have told me that there has been some kind of pressure in Finland. They may not always be related to military posts but to dual citizens in different positions, and of course this should not be accepted by the Finnish State. It is also important to note that when talking about the European Union, of which Finland is of course a member, its security rules require that foreign interests be clarified by excluding EU citizenship, that is to say, a situation in which a person is a Finnish and French citizen, for example. This approach should, as a general rule, also be taken into account when considering eligibility for military office. And, of course, with a common sense in mind: what kind of obligations does citizenship of another State entail that may conflict with the tasks of the subject of the inquiry, with the duties of this person, then in this military office? Well, then we'll have to evaluate this. But now, Madam President, it remains a very big responsibility for the safety report authority. There is no categorical ban on dual citizenship. This is done on a case-by-case basis, so the big responsibility lies with the safety report. I warmly support this proposal. In the end, the government has done good work for Finland’s national security. The military budget has been increased by almost half a billion euros. As I mentioned earlier, foreign land trades are being restricted, the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military duty is being lifted and now this important presentation relates to military posts for dual citizens. The government has vigorously addressed the changes in the security environment that have also been highlighted in the Defence Report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u98	Madam President! In fact, I do not have much to say, but I was forced to intervene in that situation described by Mrs Elo, which apparently was such a blue sky comment that Parliament would somehow be as subordinate to what the Government and the Government want to say, and here in Parliament we just bless those things. In my view, it was necessary to intervene in such a situation that the lack of parliamentary legislative power from that toilet was somewhat desirable, and I would like to see Mr Elo perhaps taking a few steps back. However, here we have 200 Members of Parliament in the various committees who have the opportunity to weigh the government's and the Government's proposals, and not that we are just here some sewer that then accepts the government's proposals. If from the time of your own reign you can see how many bill proposals have been drawn back, you may see the truth that it is not quite the way you pictured it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u99	Madam President! The supreme legislative power of the Republic of Finland is of course exercised by this house, the Finnish Parliament. It's perfectly clear. Mr Myllykoski, I am sorry if the impression arose that I wanted to undermine Parliament's legislative powers. Absolutely not. I mainly intervened, perhaps with bad words, only that the government, or the Government, will of course make legislative proposals and Parliament will assess them, and ultimately Parliament will ultimately decide on Finnish legislation, but I may have become the impression that Mr Ronkainen's speech was made that it was as if the committee had submitted its legislative proposal. The bill comes from the Government, and then the committee and Parliament will take a position on it, and this system has worked well. As Mrs Myllykoski pointed out, there are situations in which, whether it be the Constitutional Committee or another committee, there is a great deal of disagreement with the Government's proposal and there is a great deal of power in this situation. And as we know, the Government, or Government, enjoys the confidence of the Parliament and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u100	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 36/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u101	Mr President! The abolition of premiums for crop damage and crop pest insurance at first reading is based on the so-called agricultural crisis package of last August. The solution aims to promote the introduction of an insurance-based crop damage scheme. The last year of the statutory harvest compensation scheme was 2015. According to a static calculation, the annual tax revenue of the State is estimated to be affected by the tax on premiums for the release of crop damage insurance and by approximately half a million euro for plant damage insurance. The measures proposed by the Government have been adopted by the EU Commission in December 2018 on the basis of the Agriculture and Forestry Block Exemption Regulation. The Committee on Finance also proposes, on a proposal from the Tax Section, to exempt animal health insurance from the premium tax. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also expressed concern about this in its opinion. The exemption from the premium tax on animal health insurance is estimated to have an impact of around EUR 0.7 million per year on government tax revenue, even according to a static calculation, of course. During the section consultation, the experts considered it clear that the measures would be adopted by the EU Commission on the basis of the same block exemption regulation as was adopted for the abolition of the premium tax on crop damage and pest insurance. The majority of animal health insurance policies have been taken out as group insurance for salmonella through producer cooperatives. Mr President! These changes would be fully temporary and would be valid until the end of 2027. In practice, however, they would become permanent legislation, only now they will have to be made available for the end of the future EU fund period at this stage. The exemption of animal health insurance from the premium tax would enter into force at the time laid down by the Government Decree, as the adoption of the EU Commission will require its own time. However, the approval procedure is not expected to take long. Mr President! The inclusion of animal health insurance in insurance exempt from the premium tax is natural, since the three types of insurance now being presented in the European Union are part of the same family in a certain way. Among other things, the EU allows insurance premiums for these three insurance policies to be supported by a contribution of between 65 % and 70 % from national funds. We do not have this solution, unlike many other Member States, because this aid would eat up other national agricultural aid. It is possible to grant the aid of between 65 % and 70 %, irrespective of whether a premium tax has ever been imposed in a Member State. The committee's report is unanimous. This too has its own positive meaning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u102	Mr President! Now I can say that Mrs Myllykoski is on a little thin ice here, but I would like to say that, in the problematic problem we have in this agriculture, we should be able to concentrate even more on the fact that we may have more than just an insurance system. But I must say, in particular, that decisions have been made now, and we are going to make such a far-reaching decision as Mr Kiviranta has just pointed out, precisely because it is for this EU period that this is what we need to do. In that sense, the committee has made good judgement and, most importantly, there has been consensus on this issue too, and that is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u103	Mr President, it is. In fact, Mr Kiviranta explained the committee report, and indeed this is a unanimous report, which the committee has then contributed to improving by extending animal health insurance. It is not a big economic issue, but it is in principle important because the risks are increasing also in relation to animal diseases. Farmers already have insurance to do. Mr President! In fact, it is a question of managing the risks of agriculture and Finnish food production, and that is where the challenge lies. Parliament has already referred to the need for more permanent arrangements in connection with the refund of the energy tax. After all, we lost the harvest damage system during the last parliamentary term, and the support from Southern Finland — 141 in its old number — is no longer a legal basis in that way, and therefore crisis management is not in order. This has been highlighted in the reform of the EU's agricultural policy, albeit partly on the basis of national competence. It is important, but I would stress that this abolition of the premium tax is a good thing, but it does not solve the risk management problem as weather risks increase, animal health risks increase and market risks also increase in the world when protectionism occurs, and we already have bad experience of this in relation to counter-impositions in Russia. In this context too, it is necessary to rush Finland very actively in the context of agricultural policy and also at national level to look for a solution with sufficient volume of the crisis fund and light red tape so that young farmers who go into the sector know that there is a risk management system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-27-ps-166.u104	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissila referred me back to what I had to say after what Mr Kiviranta said: that we were now falling down so to speak, especially in relation to these animal diseases, because we are at risk of swine fever a little further south and east. In the event that it comes massively, we have now taken the view that we are committed to ensuring that the system works for us, and there, in terms of costs, the State is prepared to take part in the responsibility if we are faced with such a massive situation that we have swine fever spreading to this country.
